ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I begin with the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Katarina Hočevar, Renata Brunskole at 12 o'clock, Mrs Eva Irgl, mag. Barbara Zgeiner Tavsh, mag. Dejan Židan, Mr. Jakob President by 3 p.m., Mr. Jerko Čehovin by 12 noon. I welcome all those present once again. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on localism after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! We have before us the ninth amendment to the Law on Local Elections, which is aimed primarily at adapting Slovenian legislation to the European legal order. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union in 2004, Slovenia also had to adjust its legal order in the field of local elections. The Republic of Slovenia has therefore completed the Local Elections Act in 2005, but at the end of 2011, the European Commission, when it examined the proper implementation of the Directive, concluded that the Directive was not properly transposed into the Slovenian legal order in part, as it requires permanent residence of citizens of the European Union. However, permanent residence is required in the Foreigners Act for five years of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of a warning from the Directorate-General for Justice, the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and the Ministry of the Interior decided to prepare the amendments to the Law on Local Elections and the Law on the Registration of Election Rights. In response to the European Commission, Slovenia has committed itself to remove such inconsistencies by the end of 2012, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will inform the European Commission of the changes made after the adoption of this Act. According to Slovenian legislation, citizens of other Member States of the European Union must stay for at least five years for active and passive electoral rights for local elections in the Republic of Slovenia, while Slovenian citizens are not subject to such restrictions. In accordance with Article 3 of the Directive, citizens of the European Union shall have equal conditions with regard to active and passive electoral rights, as determined by their country of residence, for their citizens, an active and passive electoral right. However, in the Slovenian case, the condition of a five-year stay applies only to nationals of other Member States of the European Union. We also want to end this gap with this novel. Let me say that such a change does not apply to third-country nationals, which means that it concerns only European Union citizens, is said to be members of the European Union. Let me also point out that the drafter, by Article 3, is lowering the prizes to the President and the Secretary of the municipal electoral authorities, who are clearly not in line with the law currently in force governing the compensation received by the electoral authorities at national level. This means that we want to reconcile this imbalance with this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Pišk, a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good morning, everyone! The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 5th session. Ten. 2012 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the letter of the State Election Commission. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, said in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the aim of the proposed amendment was to fully transpose Directive 94/80 with regard to the exercise of electoral rights and the right to run for office in the local elections of European Union citizens residing in an EU Member State where they do not have citizenship. In this way, the Local Elections Act will include the possibility of exercising electoral rights both to the categories of EU citizens residing permanently in the Republic of Slovenia, with a residence permit issued, as well as to the categories of EU citizens residing temporarily in the Republic of Slovenia, with a residence permit issued. The proposed novel also entails a reduction in the remuneration for performing functions in municipal electoral bodies. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in the written opinion of the PSC with the amendments tabled were taken into account to a certain extent. Again, she pointed out that the provision of Article 4 was not of a transitional nature, but was a material provision which provided for a new way of exercising electoral rights for certain legal persons. The content of this provision also does not fall under the Local Elections Act, but rather the Electoral Law, and the harmonisation of both laws is a future uncertain fact. The representative of the Council of State, Mr Darko Fras, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposed alignment with the European acquis. He raised the question of how the prohibition of double the use of electoral rights is monitored, given that the time from the call for elections to the establishment of an electoral directory or the conduct of elections is relatively short. Members and members of the Committee discussed in particular Article 3 and the proposed reduction in compensation for the performance of functions in municipal electoral bodies. We agreed that the proposed reduction would not be appropriate for the presidents and members of the electoral committees and their deputies who vote in the electorate. With regard to the proposed reduction of compensations to the presidents and secretaries of the municipal electoral commissions, however, we considered that these refunds should be reduced to bring the amount of compensation received by the electoral authorities at national level. The opposition Members, however, objected to the reduction of these refunds, as they believe that qualified staff could no longer be able to decide for these places. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and to the amendment of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the proposed law together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u6	Good morning! Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of Positive Slovenia on the Local Elections Act. We therefore have before us changes and additions to the Law on Local Elections, which brings to Slovenia a directive on the exercise of electoral rights and the right to run at local elections of citizens of the European Union residing in Slovenia but who do not have our citizenship. Thus, in the Local Elections Act, this option will now be to exercise electoral rights both to the categories of citizens of the European Union who continue to reside in Slovenia, meaning that they have a valid residence permit and a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as to categories of citizens of the European Union who are temporary residents in Slovenia, i.e. with a valid residence certificate and registered temporary residence. These changes are not disputed for us. More controversial, however, was the Government's proposal, which, without serious analysis and consultation with the State Election Commission, sought to reduce the compensation for performing functions in the municipal electoral bodies, not in the national electoral bodies. It should be borne in mind that the scope of the work in the local elections, when elected by the mayor, municipal councillors, members of the local community, as well as by the national electoral authorities when elected by the President of the State, Members or by referendums, cannot be compared. It would therefore be necessary to carefully analyse what proposal is proportionate to the volume of work and, on the basis of this criterion, also to determine the amount of compensation. We were particularly disturbed by the proposal to reduce the symbolic compensation, about 40 or 40 euros for members of the electoral committees under the cover of savings that work on the ground and bear a heavy burden of responsibility. Fortunately, on the committee, we have generally agreed that this is a matter of not knowing the work of the electoral committees and we have rejected the Government's proposal. If the Ministry were aware that it was already very difficult to obtain volunteers who would take responsibility for the work of the electorate and as a substitute for only the symbolic €40, they would probably not have proposed that. Given that there is no reason to rush into amending this law, we have expected to see the Government withdraw the part of the law that touches the members of the local electoral authorities and coordinate it on the basis of the analysis and consultation of the national electoral commission. But it didn't happen. We also have a proposal for a law as it is today, and we will vote on it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for saying that again. In the first part, the Government proposed to amend the law with a view to bringing it into line with the EU acquis and to fully transpose Directive 94/80 into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive requires that all EU citizens have the right to equal treatment and the right to an active and passive electoral right in local elections in a manner that is recognised by nationals of the home country. Slovenian citizens are entitled to be loved and elected to municipal councils and mayors with an added 18 years of age, regardless of the time of their stay in Slovenia, while other EU citizens with a permanent or temporary residence with us receive all rights after living with us for five years, but before that they can only be elected to the municipal councils. The directive, which states that a national of an EU Member State who is not a national of the country where he resides, has an electoral right at local level from the moment of the application of his residence, is not only coordinated by Slovenia and Lithuania, so the Republic of Slovenia has informed the European Commission that it will adopt the law quickly and properly transpose the directive into our legal order. The adopted law will give the authority responsible for the management of the central register of residents the legal basis for including those nationals of EU Member States who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the electoral registers for local elections, and have a residence permit or a temporary residence certificate with us. While we were quite united in the first part of the law, a few more discussions were about changing the article on the replacement of the presidents and secretaries of the municipal electoral commission. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we take the view that a possible reduction in the remuneration of the President, the Secretary and their deputies is from 100% to 50% of the mayor's salary. We all agree that there is much work to be done during the local elections in the KLA, but we believe that secretaries are usually members of the municipal administrations and that part of the tasks are carried out in service and already paid time. Presidents and their deputies are diplomats, usually judges or educated people who are practically all employed in well-paid jobs. These people do not have or should not be motivated by quality money, and they will certainly not be overly deprived of money, while the congregations or the country save much. The proposed reduction on average saves about a million and a half euros in one election, which is a huge savings in recent times. It is essential that this law does not interfere with the remuneration of members of the District Electoral Commission and members of the municipal electoral committees who will continue to be paid for their work in the same way as before. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law on local elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Member of the Group of Social Democrats and Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u10	Your Honor! The Law on Local Elections is another one of many that is dealt with and adopted in short-term and which is not harmonised even in coalitions, in other interested groups such as local communities. The drafter may also request an opinion from the State Election Commission before submitting this amendment to the legislative procedure. Why do I say that? As a result of the amendment of the Civil Code, which was adopted on the home working body and was also prepared on the basis of the opinion of the National Election Commission. On the first part of the law relating to the EU Directive, we have no comments from the Social Democrats. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is not appropriate for members of the electoral committees who, on the day of local and other elections, say presidential, national, European, or referendums to do important work, to lower the amount of compensation. I hope that it is in everyone's interest that the work in the electoral committees is done professionally and without question as to the credibility of the electoral results. It is not to be overlooked, however, that members of electoral committees as well as members of municipal electoral committees in local elections not only count the votes received by mayoral candidates or candidates, but also count the votes received by candidates or candidates for municipal councils and local, village and fourth communities. Here we must recognise that the difference in the work of both the electoral committees and the electoral commissions according to the size of the municipalities, the number of inhabitants and, consequently, the number of candidates on individual lists is obvious. The number of municipal or city councillors ranges from at least 7 saints to 45 in the largest city councils. The electoral system also differs. 7 to 11 saints are elected by the majority system. If the Councillors are 12 or more, the elections shall be held on a proportional basis. In the Social Democrats' Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Local Elections, but we propose that the competent state authorities carry out a serious professional discussion and analysis of compensations for members and secretaries of municipal and district election committees and members of the electoral committees of the electoral units, based on these findings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. President of the Government, Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that Members and Members of the National Gazette will be supported by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. Novela brings two changes. The first relates to compliance with the legal order of the European Union and the second relates to the harmonisation of the amount of compensation to the electoral authorities. Both changes are necessary, urgent, justified and we therefore support the amendment. On 1 May 2004, Slovenia entered the European Union, a family of European democratic countries with just over 500 million inhabitants. And any citizen of the Union who resides in a Member State but who does not have his nationality has, in accordance with the European legal order, the right to vote and be loved in municipal elections under the same conditions as the nationals of that State. We have also transposed into the Slovenian legal order a directive of the Council of the EU regulating this right, and so, as of today, citizens of the European Union who do not have Slovenian citizenship may participate in local elections, but on condition that they remain with us for at least five years. And it is this condition of a five-year stay that is inconsistent with the European Union's legal order, which we are also closing with the amendment's proposal. The second part of the amendments concerns the harmonisation of the remuneration for the functions of the President and the Secretary of the Municipal Election Commissions. The comparison of the amount of compensation received by the electoral authorities at local and national level shows a large imbalance. Since these are comparable tasks, the amendments adopted by the Home Committee have brought these compensations into line with each other accordingly. Thus, we have reduced the compensation for the presidents and secretaries by 50%. Let me say that, despite a significant reduction, the lowest amount is EUR 1,000 398 to the President or the Secretary of the Municipal Electoral Commission, and the highest amount is just over EUR 2 000 300. The height depends on the mayor's salary class. The proposed estimate of savings in municipal budgets amounting to approximately EUR 1.7 million. Let me point out that the reduction concerns only the President and the Secretary of the Municipal Election Commissions. The electoral boards, i.e. those who perform their work on the electoral boards on the day of the vote, shall not be reduced. We are aware that a reduction could lead to difficulties in the establishment of electoral committees and, as a result, to difficulties in the conduct of elections, which is of course not intended. As we say, we will support the bill in the Civil Gazette. However, we would also like to step forward in the area of elections and introduce the possibility of electronic voting or so-called electronic elections. Experts believe that as a society, we are mature for this step. The Internet is increasingly present in all areas of our lives. With the introduction of electronic elections, Slovenia could take a step further towards an even more modern and people-friendly country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u14	Well, hello, all of you! The first paragraph of Article 19 of the Treaty of Rome provides that any citizen of the European Union residing in a Member State who does not have his nationality shall have the right to vote in that State and to be loved in municipal elections under the same conditions as the national of that State. By joining a large family called the European Union, we have also committed ourselves in Slovenia to respect common rules. The proposed amendment to the Law on Local Elections gives the possibility to exercise electoral rights to all citizens of the European Union who have obtained a permanent residence permit in Slovenia, as well as to those who reside in Slovenia temporarily, thereby fully transferring the provisions of Directive 94/80. The precondition for the exercise of electoral rights will thus be the application of a foreigner to a specific address under the Act on Registration of Residence. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that electoral rights are one of the most important human rights of today and that, therefore, improving the conditions for its realization also for individuals from other countries of the European Union who live in Slovenia, but who do not yet have Slovenian citizenship, is a good indicator of the democratic nature of society or of the country. Nevertheless, questions about the proposed regime have been raised about the control of double electoral rights, i.e. the possibility of an individual exercising electoral rights in a country of permanent and temporary residence, which could open debates on the equality of the exercise of electoral rights with citizens of the European Union who exercise electoral rights only in one country and have electoral rights solely on the basis of their permanent residence. We believe that ensuring the ministry that individual mechanisms are in place at European level in this area will prevent any doubt about such inequalities. The proposed amendment amends article 45a of the current law governing the compensation of members of municipal election committees. Thus, the presidents and secretaries of the municipal electoral commissions will be entitled to a compensation of 50% of the mayor's basic monthly salary in each municipality when performing this function professionally. This brings the compensations to the local electoral authorities closer to the national electoral authorities, as these two categories have so far been subject to certain imbalances. The original version of Article 3 of the proposed law also provided for a reduction in the remuneration of members of the local electoral committees, but the amendment adopted on the home labour body maintained the same amount of compensation, i.e. at the rate of three working days in the country as provided for by the Government Regulation. The initial proposal would devalue work in local electoral committees, as the amount of work in local elections is significantly higher than in presidential elections, for example. At the same time, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that democratic elections are the first and fundamental condition for the establishment and functioning of a democratic system. In general apathy to political action, excessive measures in the electoral system can cause this democracy to begin to break, so there is no need for caution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed solutions are nevertheless appropriate, so we will support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Local Elections Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a new Law on Local Elections has been introduced by the Government in the legislative process primarily to comply with the acquis of the European Union. The provisions of the European Directives provide that citizens of the European Union residing in a Member State who do not have their nationality have the right to vote and to be loved in municipal elections under the same conditions as nationals of that State. The novelty in no part interferes with the regulation of the active and passive electoral rights of Slovenian citizens residing outside the Republic of Slovenia or with the electoral rights of third-country nationals. It applies only to the electoral right of citizens of other Member States of the European Union residing in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be added, however, that the concept of residence is reflected in the applicable legislation governing residence. This part of the legislation is without prejudice to the amendment in question. The condition for obtaining permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens of the European Union remains a continuous five-year stay in the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the novel is properly transposed in this part by European regulations, and we therefore support it. We also support that part of the novel, which relates to the reduction of compensations to the President and the Secretary of the municipal electoral commission. I would like to point out that this is not a reduction in compensation for all members of the municipal electoral commission, but it is only a reduction in the remuneration for the president and the secretary of the municipal electoral commission. There are two reasons for this intervention and, according to our assessment, they are fully justified. First reason. The analysis of the level of compensations from municipal electoral authorities and the State Election Commission showed more than apparent imbalances and imbalances. Regardless of the cost of municipal budgets being compensated by the municipal electoral commission, we believe that there is a need for unification. The second reason is to save money. Thus, by adopting this part of the novel, we will limit the expenditure of municipal budgets to finance the costs of electoral authorities at local level. I reiterate that it does not apply to all members, but only to compensations to the President and the Secretary of the Municipal Election Commission. Although the government proposal envisaged a reduction to 80% of the mayor's basic monthly salary. At the committee’s own meeting, we agreed that the municipal election commission could still be reached in this part. We have thus concluded, which we support in the DeSUS Group of Members, that the President and the Secretary of the Municipal Electoral Commission are entitled to a compensation of 50% of the mayor's basic salary. I'm giving you an example to hear what that means. In the smallest municipality in our country, which counts 433 inhabitants, the remuneration will still be almost EUR 400 per President. In the DeSUS Group, we support and support the reduction of refunds, as today their financial situation is not the most rosy. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Law on Local Elections brings legislation into line with European Union law. After this novel, citizens of the Member States of the European Union will be given the right to vote and run in local elections immediately after the application of permanent residence in Slovenia. According to Slovenian legislation, citizens of the Member States of the European Union had to stay for at least five years to obtain active and passive electoral rights for local elections in Slovenia, while Slovenian citizens were not subject to such restrictions, as the European Commission has also pointed out to Slovenia. In other countries of the European Union, all EU Member States have an active and passive right simply by applying for permanent residence. Such a solution now brings the amendment of this law into Slovenian law and would remain in force for other foreigners and would require a five-year stay in Slovenia as yet. At the same time, the amendment of this law reduces the compensation for performing functions in municipal electoral commissions. These refunds were also higher than those received by electoral commissions at national level by more than one hundred per cent following the regulation so far. The scope of the work and powers of municipal and state district commissions is comparable and it is therefore justified to point out a comparable amount of prizes. In Novi Slovenija we advocate that the work of the members of the electoral authorities is properly rewarded both locally and nationally. Even after the current amendment of this law, which establishes a comparable level of awards for all electoral bodies, this objective will be satisfied. At the same time, we must stress that those who work in electoral bodies must also share the fate of the economic crisis and savings. At national level, the level of funding for the award of electoral bodies has already been reduced in the past. The area of the award of municipal electoral authorities governed by the law in question should therefore be amended and adapted to the changed situation. It seems important to us that the level of compensation remains unchanged for the President and the members of the electoral committees for the local elections and is also aligned with the State-level elections. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 25 October 2012, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on protection against fire within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Peter Stavanja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u20	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Fire Protection Act was the first law to be passed in our home country after the adoption of a law on protection against natural and other disasters. The development of the system was later modified four times. This time, however, the proposed amendments to the Fire Protection Act are prepared for the following key reasons. The development of regulatory arrangements in specific areas, which are important in terms of fire protection, has exceeded the frameworks and solutions presented by this law. Some of the solutions in the law are insufficiently coordinated as part of the development of the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters. Legal solutions need to be complemented and adapted to the development of the profession and, in particular, to the actual needs in this area. In terms of reducing administrative burdens and negligent procedures, certain matters in the law need to be simplified. In accordance with these objectives and principles on which a proposal for amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act are based, the draft law sets out the following main solutions. Any natural and legal person, independent entrepreneur, individual or individual acting independently shall, in accordance with the law, be criminally and indemnity responsible for the failure to implement fire protection measures, as well as for any consequences arising from this negligence. Local communities may plan fire protection tasks in their area in programmes and plans to protect against natural and other disasters, but they must not run counter to programmes and plans adopted at national level. Optional forms of training are also provided for the training of tenants in residential buildings and can be organised by both owners and users of multi-housing buildings. The preparation of spatial acts should take into account, inter alia, the fire risk posed by the fire hazard of the natural environment. Built-in construction products and materials, installations, installations, appliances, equipment, must meet fire safety requirements, comply with building regulations, construction products regulations and technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. In view of the fire complexity of the facility, a fire safety design or a fire safety study shall be developed in accordance with the Fire Protection Act. The design or study of fire safety may be developed by a responsible designer who meets the prescribed conditions. The existing collection of data and records in the field of fire protection has been reduced and simplified to the most urgent extent. The prescribed solutions for evacuation routes, intervention areas and fire plans are complemented and aligned with actual needs. More precisely, it is prescribed that only firefighters may perform when and in which cases the fire department may carry out fire-fighting works that are more demanding. The monitoring of integrated active fire protection systems is complemented. By implementing the law, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia will cease to issue approvals for building permits. In the drafting of the law, we wanted to achieve the greatest possible consensus of the profession, so we also aligned the proposal for amendments and additions to the law with the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters and Slovenian Fire Safety Associations, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of Fire Rescue Services of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. However, the proposed amendment of the Defence Committee as a parent working body takes into account, to a large extent, the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, to all Members and Members of Parliament, as well as to others in the Chamber! The Defence Committee is at its 2nd session. Ten. 2012 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, a second treatment submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In addition to the representatives of the proposed law and the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia and the Trade Firefighters Union of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana and the proposals for amendments to the Committee submitted by the Ministry of Defence. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and made comments to Articles 8, 10, 20, 22 and 24. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. In a supplementary explanation for the articles, the representative of the applicant said that the creation of the proposed law dates back to 1993. This was one of the first laws to be passed after independence in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. The Act was amended several times in 2006, 2007 and last in 2011. The main amendments to the law introduced by the current proposal are, according to the ministers, those which are dictated by development and regulatory arrangements in other different areas. The area of fire protection must be aligned with the Law on protection against natural and other disasters due to the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters. The law should also be adapted and supplemented according to the current state of the profession. It has been almost 20 years since the law was passed, so things that have gone on mainly from the technical field of the purchase of materials, equipment, video surveillance, evacuation routes and so on should be recast. He is also the minister of opinion and has pointed out that the Government has also committed itself to removing administrative obstacles by means of a proposal for a law. This bill partially reduces or practically removes certain consents issued by the Ministry of Defence. The law is also better regulated by the so-called fire department. This is a guard for those facilities that are classified in a higher level of fire risk and some of the criminal provisions are being amended. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of its business regulations and tasks and had drawn up its written opinion in which it had formulated comments which could be broken down or divided into two types. The first is legal; the second refers to concerns relating to the legislative technical aspect of the drafting of the bill. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the proposed solution in the draft law. Most of these solutions follow some of the previous findings and discussions to simplify procedures. Mr Fras pointed out that there is still an inadequate evaluation of the work of firefighters in work operations, and an initiative has also been made to re-examine and regulate the status of firefighters in firefighter societies. Following a brief discussion under Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee drafted and adopted amendments to Articles 3, 10, 11, 16 as well as to Articles 20 and 23 and 40 of the proposed law. In accordance with Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the proposed law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the views of the members of the groups. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and by Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Months ago, the government made a commitment to remove administrative obstacles in this mandate, among other things. In this Fire Protection Act, this is precisely what is at the forefront of: simplification, rationalisation, and the withdrawal of certain consents that have been issued so far by the Ministry of Defence. Glad that the law is in line with all stakeholders, i.e. the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, the Slovenian Fire Safety Association, the Community of Rescue Services of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber. So it is a good solution, which in practice, as I mentioned earlier, will mean rationalisation. What is it, exactly? The law specifies much more precisely who is criminally and indemnity responsible for the non-implementation of fire protection measures and the consequences arising therefrom. Local communities may plan fire protection tasks in programmes which must not conflict with national programmes and plans. Optional forms of training of tenants in multi-housing buildings organised by owners or users of buildings shall be introduced. The built-in construction material must also meet fire safety requirements and the Minister will continue to sign the fire hazard detection methodology. According to the new plan, fire plans should also be made for buildings equipped with solar power plants connected to the public network. The authorisation of persons responsible for the implementation of fire protection measures is also more precisely regulated, and the obligation to organise fire guards is partly changed, and construction supervision of active fire protection systems is also regulated. Since the law follows our ambition to remove as many administrative obstacles as possible and to make the law go in the direction of rationalisation, we will unanimously support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The basic objective of the amendment of the Fire Protection Act is to harmonise regulatory solutions with the state of play achieved in individual parts of the fire protection with the knowledge of the profession and, above all, to simplify individual solutions and procedures and thus contribute to improving the safety and security of people and their property. The introduction to the law also states that the subject of the novel is not related to European legislation, so how we have these matters regulated by the novel is a matter of our domestic legislation. However, in the introduction to the law it can be found that things are very different in countries. For the most part, fire safety falls under the jurisdiction of local communities, and it is therefore surprising that the comments of the largest local community in the proposed legislation have not been taken into account. It is also bound by the fact that the law did not open all the articles proposed for amendment in the Municipality of Ljubljana. For the Social Democrats, the biggest dilemma in the proposal for a new law is to weigh between the benefits of removing bureaucratic barriers and the damage to ensuring the lack of fire safety that arises in the event of a fire. With the practice of the Republic of Slovenia's Department of Protection and Rescue, it is somehow a protector to take professional standards into account in the construction of the most demanding buildings, thereby maintaining the level of fire safety. Where there is agreement on the field of protection against fire to the building permit and the use permit is completely lifted, as proposed in the amendment to this Act, the fundamental responsibility for the proper application of the regulations or measures in this field shall be transferred to the investor, designer and contractor. However, the question remains entirely open whether the amendment introduced by the amendment at the meeting of the Committee is also harmonised with the professional public. In Article 10, we also drew up a revision of the fire safety plan in the paper. This eliminates all safeguards, and we think that from the point of view of responsibility, we would not be able to accept the responsibility of escaping under the cover of reducing administrative burdens and some minimum savings. In the draft law, it is possible to read that, by reducing the number of employees, their transfer can be saved annually from 220 to 250 000 euros. Of course, we also rely on the Minister's statement at the committee meeting, which said, "I must say that as a minister or as all our employees would like to get rid of it, because I think the Ministry of Defence, including our employees, is not qualified to verify design professional or non-professional solutions." It is simple, once again, to stress the problem that, following the resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters for the period 2009-2015, a common platform should be set up, a cross-cutting consultative body that would assess how coordinated it is to achieve the objectives of the action plan for disaster risk reduction. Whatever we read in the introduction to the law, it is all about providing or desiring to reduce administrative barriers. Once again, I would point out that no one in principle opposes this, but yet another safeguard should be maintained that, while individual economic operators can shut down, investors can shut down, design organisations can shut down – who will then take responsibility if it turns out that due to the lack of plans there has been some cause for the accident and serious consequences? Finally, this may also affect the insurance which the building user will have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u28	Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! The creation of the Fire Protection Act dates back to 1993. This was one of the first laws to be passed after the independence in the field of protection from natural and other disasters. The law was amended several times between 2006 and 2011. Its implementation has also provided a fairly planned development and research work in the field of fire protection. However, significant progress has also been made in the area of prevention or control of fires in the natural environment.The modernisation and updating of the law is necessary after almost twenty years because the development of regulatory arrangements in various areas in terms of fire protection has exceeded the framework and solutions of the current law. At the same time, harmonisation is necessary in the context of the development of an overall system of protection against natural and other disasters, adaptation to the development of the profession and simplification of procedures aimed at reducing administrative barriers. The proposal to amend the law before us partially reduces or removes certain consensus that has been issued by the Ministry of Defence so far. The law is also better regulated by the so-called fire department, which is a guard for those facilities that are classified in a higher level of fire risk and some of the criminal provisions are being amended. Amendments were adopted on the Defence Committee to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act. In particular, let me stress the removal of administrative barriers, which is Article 10, where the proposed amendment withdraws the requirement for a revision of the design or study of fire safety. The main amendments to the law introduced by the current proposal are those dictated by development and regulatory arrangements in various other areas. In view of the integrity of the system of protection against natural and other disasters, the area of fire protection must be aligned with the above-mentioned roofing law. It also needs to be adjusted and supplemented according to the current state of the profession. We will therefore support the bill in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u30	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Ministry of Defence, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the draft law as it brings some positive changes to reduce administrative obstacles and to comply with the Law on the Protection against Natural Disasters and to adapt to the changes in the technical and regulatory field that took place at the time of the adoption of this Act 20 years ago. We support the law by reducing or practically abolishing certain consensus that has been issued by the Ministry of Defence so far. The law also regulates the so-called fire guard more appropriately, i.e. the guards for those facilities classified as higher levels of fire risk. The adoption of amendments to the Defence Committee has removed some concerns about the need for and correction of non-compliance in the provisions, such as the need to carry out a fire safety audit. The amended law provides that the audit shall be carried out solely on the basis of the building regulations. In the future, however, we are facing a challenge that the Council of State also draws attention to: new changes and arrangements for a more appropriate evaluation of the work of professional firefighters in work operations. There has also been an initiative supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party to study and regulate the status of voluntary firefighters in firefighter societies. In particular, in smaller companies, the burden on entrepreneurs is too great to cover costs if there are volunteer firefighters among workers. However, a positive change is certainly the introduction of optional forms, the training of tenants in multi-housing buildings organised by owners or users of multi-housing buildings and specific provisions in relation to new facilities created since the adoption of the first law, namely solar energy facilities and similar facilities, which constitute additional fire threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Hello, everyone. We have examined and identified the following in our parliamentary group. The fundamental objective of the amendments and the addition of the Fire Protection Act is to harmonise normative solutions with the situation achieved in individual parts of the fire protection, the knowledge of the profession, and in particular the simplification of individual solutions and procedures, thus contributing to improving the safety and security of people and their property. In line with the basic objective, however, the aim of amending and supplementing the law is to complement the chapters on the programming, planning and implementation of fire protection measures. The aim is also to complement the operations of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. The law influences and encourages more effective consideration of fire protection measures in the preparation of spatial acts and in particular in the construction of buildings. When preparing spatial acts, it is important that it is already stipulated by law that the risk of fires in the natural environment must also be taken into account when taking into account various fire risks. This aspect has not been covered by the law so far. It is particularly important that the provisions governing the construction of buildings be supplemented, the suspension of the approval of building permits from the point of view of fire safety will therefore not result in lower fire safety, but will also increase standards, as the responsibility of investors, responsible designers and operators will be increased. The law will remove the dilemmas as to whether the tasks of fire protection at local level are planned in specific plans or documents or jointly in the context of the planning of protection against natural and other disasters. The law specifically emphasises that local communities can plan fire protection tasks in their area with programmes and plans for protection against natural and other disasters, so this is not a mandatory task for municipalities. In any event, no specific fire protection plan is required. Provisions requiring the establishment of an information system for fire protection databases and records will be simplified so that only key information relevant for the performance of the tasks of the competent authorities and the direction of fire protection will be collected. Provisions on fire statistics will be deleted. The system of approvals for building permits to be issued by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and resolution in respect of compliance with fire safety requirements will be abolished. The law does not impose any new procedure or administrative burden, but the procedures so far simplify or eliminate and thus reduce administrative burdens. We support the proposal in the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you. New Slovenia and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u34	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Firefighting has a long tradition in Slovenia. This I don't think I need to stress in particular that there are many firefighters in Slovenia and there are quite a few firefighters in this room as well. And that firefighting is one of those areas where volunteerism is still evolving and I will dare say that it lives on a big leg, because it's also right. In recent years, even for decades, firefighting in Slovenia has developed franticly. Even with the help of local communities, which must be clearly recognised. The technique has progressed and construction standards have also changed. Until now, protection from fire and other natural disasters has governed several different laws. Even if certain provisions are duplicated, some even exclude each other. The proposal for amendments to the Fire Protection Act submitted by the Ministry of Defence governs two matters. For the first time, it updates and adapts things to the current state and for the second time removes administrative obstacles, which my predecessors have already talked about extensively. I don't think there are a lot of controversial things about this law, but it's one of the things highlighted by my colleague Potrat, and this is the abolition of the review of the fire safety study. In order not to be misunderstood, this law does not abolish the study of fire safety; it only eliminates the fact that the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has to review and give a certain assessment in order to protect and rescue a study by an investor. Current experience has shown that such an audit did not significantly contribute to greater fire safety and that in some ways this constituted an additional administrative obstacle and also a cost. And this is one of the fundamental reasons why this revision of the fire safety study is being abolished. This also means that from now on, an investor will have to assume even greater responsibility for the construction of the facilities, which we think is right, and that there will be no transfer of responsibility to the state institutions, since you have also reviewed and given some consent to the plan. If I conclude, I can say that the New Slovenia Group will support this proposal for amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In view of the fundamental characteristics of the application of the Fire Protection Act so far, in particular individual solutions, the following are fundamental reasons for amending and supplementing the law. Harmonisation of the normative objectives with the actual state of play in the individual areas of fire protection, simplification of individual solutions and procedures, complementing the provisions on the programming, planning and implementation of fire protection measures, the information system for fire protection and the completion of the operations of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. The amendment of the law has therefore taken place because some of the solutions in the law are insufficiently coordinated within the framework of the development of the whole system of protection against natural and other disasters, as some solutions need to be complemented and adapted to the development of the profession. In addition, firefighting should be better regulated in fire-fighting or activities and should be aligned with the solutions applicable to fire-fighting facilities. Of course, the revision of criminal provisions in the law must also be carried out. We support these solutions in Positive Slovenia. However, we would like to draw attention to the provisions of the law that simplify procedures. In this regard, the Government argues that the administrative burden is being lifted, namely the abolition of the issue of specific consent to the building permits for the construction of buildings or the reconstruction of buildings. This will, in particular, reduce the obligations of investors obtaining building permits and, in part, simplify the procedures for issuing building permits in administrative units. In this regard, in view of the cessation of the granting of a building permit, the issue of fire safety and liability would be of particular importance. According to the Government, this security is expected to increase and the responsibility should be with the investor, the designer and the contractor. In Positive Slovenia, we are not sure that this is the best solution. We note that the construction of buildings is of particular importance for the functioning of society and in which larger groups of people are kept. By deleting this requirement, in our view, more than an investor, designer and contractor are transferred part of the responsibility to users operating in this facility, believing that it is indeed built in accordance with all the standards. In addition, the question of liability is raised if fire safety is reduced. Not to mention the issue of increased risk and thus potential increases in insurance for such facilities, which at the end of the period reflect an increase in the costs of use, which means that, at the final stage, the removal of administrative burdens, as the Government argues, could increase costs for the building user. Therefore, a reduction in costs would only take place with the investor, whom we know is not necessarily the final user of the facility. With regard to the last solution in Positive Slovenia, we call on the Government to exercise conscientious and strict control. Since the consequences will not be seen immediately, it would certainly be a good place to monitor the implementation of these provisions and see whether this is the right solution that will not increase the risk of fire safety. Notwithstanding the warnings mentioned above, we will support the draft law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, on Thursday 25 October 2012, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a regulation on plant protection products within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Branko Ravnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The adoption of a new plant protection law is linked to the modernisation of European legislation in the field of plant protection products. At European Union level, uniform criteria are introduced to reduce the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment and to promote, use integrated plant protection against harmful organisms and introduce alternative approaches or techniques such as some alternatives to pesticides. In Slovenia we already have a law currently in force that regulates the marketing conditions of plant protection products, education of consultants, sellers, end-users, testing of application techniques, prohibition of the use of plant protection products by aircraft. The main provisions of the Directive on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides were introduced in Slovenia prior to the adoption of new European legislation, and we are making it possible to fully comply with the new law. In preparing the law, we followed the key points of origin. Firstly, the proposed solutions should aim at improving the quality of training of users of plant protection products, enhancing the quality of testing, application techniques and improving the user counselling system. Secondly, users must have access to information relating to pest control, with emphasis on the use of alternative methods of repression and the use of lower-risk plant protection products. Thirdly, the enforcement of the law must not aggravate the economic situation of users in terms of additional costs. The law is based on the principles of environmental protection, human health, taking into account the policy orientations of the agriculture strategy. Key novelties of the new law are the preparation and implementation of the national action programme, the application or introduction of mandatory integrated plant protection, information and information to the public and the introduction of additional measures to protect the aquatic environment, specific areas and areas where people are kept. The other provisions already introduced in Slovenia, as mentioned at the outset, are adapted on the basis of past experience and expertise in the way that end users will have information available on the use of plant protection products, properly tested application techniques, high-quality education and available sources of information, including appropriate advice, so that plant protection measures can be implemented in a way that reduces the use of plant protection products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u40	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a plant protection product law at its 10th meeting on 9 October 2012. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, Legal and Legislative Services, Agricultural and Economic Chambers of Slovenia, Agricultural Institute of Slovenia and Trade Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a number of comments to the draft law relating to the fundamental legal issue of the law relating to the transfer of certain tasks to individual operators and to the legal qualification of the transfer. This is a public service, public authority and market activity. It was necessary to assess whether tasks could be delegated as a public mandate. The drafter of the law carried out this assessment on a case-by-case basis and, in those cases where the technical legal tasks were concerned, also established a transfer on the basis of public authority. All comments from the Legal and Legislative Services have been duly taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, while amendments have also established a body responsible for the exercise of control over individual tasks. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported the proposal of the law, and of some of the proposals of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Slovenian Farmers' Union, which were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and amendments to the Committee. In addition to the representatives of these institutions, the Director of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia also participated in the debate on the bill, which stressed that in recent years we have amended the Law on Plant Protection Resources several times, so that we have reached a fairly good law that is now in force and is above average effective. Thus, the situation in the field of safe food and environmental protection is extremely good. With regard to the new law, however, he drew attention to some outstanding issues. One of these issues is the issue of the sale of plant protection products, the other with regard to lecturers and how all those using plant protection products will be educated. The members of the coalition and opposition parliamentary groups expressed their unanimous support for the bill, since it is a law that is of a very technical nature that brings both administrative and financial burden to the final user. In a certain sense, the law also means finding a balance between how to make farming easier with as few administrative obstacles as possible and how to protect nature and food production most effectively. As it is said, the Committee adopted in the debate all the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Services. He also accepted some of his amendments, which were also prepared on the basis of additional legal and regulatory services. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The plant protection products law ahead of us is being addressed mainly because of the new European legislation on plant protection products, which introduces certain innovations and changes. The provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for Community action to achieve sustainable use of pesticides are thus transposed into the law. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we must stress that most of the solutions that are being implemented in the European legal order are already in force in Slovenia, so these changes will not be drastic for us. Let me tell you which solutions are those brought by the European Directive, which are already established in practice for us. It is the marketing of plant protection products, the education of users, responsible persons and sellers of these funds, the testing of plant protection products applications, the prohibition on the use of aircraft for coating, the distribution of plant protection products to professional and non-professional use. All of these solutions have already been addressed in Slovenia and we believe that they are also being implemented properly in practice. It is true, however, that the European Regulation now also regulates the area of registration of plant protection products, and that is why the law itself no longer regulates this. While the new law brings improvements to work where there have been shortcomings, the key innovations are the implementation of the national action plan, the introduction of mandatory integrated plant protection beyond 2014, the introduction of additional options for action to protect the aquatic environment, specific areas of Nature and areas where people are kept. It is also important for the Minister to state that the key starting point of the law and the basic objective of changing the need to improve the quality of all services is the maximum improvement in the quality of services managed by the Ministry. We also welcome this from the Social Democrats. We are aware that the law and the use of plant protection products to find a balance, how to make farming as easy as possible, with as few administrative and other obstacles on the one hand as possible, and how to protect nature and food in the most efficient way on the other. We believe that this law legitimizes a kind of balance between all these administrative requirements and practical implementation and that it is actually a law that has an explicit technical content, so it is a technical nature of solutions, so we will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for saying that again. The plant protection products law transposes the requirements of the European Pesticides Directive into Slovenian law. With the adoption of the law, we have been late for a year, and we hope that we will still be able to avoid paying the European penalty. Among the innovations that are important for our citizens is the possibility of conducting examinations on the use of plant protection products for gardeners or non-professional growers, who have been able to use only non-professional uses of the funds under the legislation so far. However, only producers were granted professional means of examination for the use of plant protection products. In practice, since such an arrangement has also caused abuse in the use of the cards, as it was said, this examination will also be carried out by gardeners. An important innovation brought by the novelty to farmers is that in the future, the last sprinkler tests will be performed instead of every two years only every three years. Otherwise, it is a fundamental feature of the proposal to transfer to the legal level of the matter that has been regulated so far in sub-legislative acts. The issues that we put into law have been implemented in Slovenia for ten years, the system of education, the conditions for trade, the institution that carries out the testing of sprinklers. The novelty is Article 9 – a national environmental plan, integrated plant protection – after 2014 this will be a mandatory agricultural practice – and provisions related to environmental protection. In one place, we will transpose the entire directive. In the Civil Gazette, we will support changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u46	Your Honor! In fact, the new Plant Safety Act, which is before us today, is an extensive innovation and a substantive upgrade to the current law, which is proposed in the new law due to a great deal of change and greater transparency. The main reason for the adoption of the new law is the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, which lays down measures to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides, the deadline for transposition, which expired a bad year ago, November 2011. Most of the provisions of the new law, such as the marketing of plant protection products, the education of users and sellers, the testing of application devices, the prohibition of the use of aircraft for application, are in force and the proposed law only improves in the work where shortcomings have been identified. The proposed law, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, provides a good balance between farming or food production and effective protection of natural resources. The key changes introduced by the proposed law relate to the establishment of a national action plan to reduce risks from the use of plant protection products, to improve information and public awareness of the impact of plant protection products on human health and to the environment, to take additional measures regarding their use in specific areas with a view to protecting water resources, to changes in the implementation of plant protection products professional tasks and other measures. In preparing the law at the competent ministry and its amendments at the meeting of the parent body, a number of comments were taken into account by the professional public, which have further improved the proposal. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we view the bill as positive because the proposed solutions to the user are user-friendly, thus less financial and administrative burden for the Slovenian farmer. Nevertheless, it is worth mentioning here that Slovenian farmers on the market in plant protection products are in a subordinate position compared to farmers from other Member States of the European Union. Slovenian farmers do not have the possibility of access to all plant protection products available in the neighbouring countries of the European Union, since because of the smaller quantities of these products sold in Slovenia, these funds are not registered with us. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we are convinced that the proposed plant protection law represents a good balance between intensive farming and nature protection, and that it does not represent additional burdens for the Slovenian farmer, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! The proposal for the Plant Safety Act was prepared with the aim of introducing a new European directive aimed at ensuring a high level of human health, animal health and environmental protection, agricultural competitiveness and the free movement of resources and their availability within the European Union. More efficient farming will have to be done in the future. The extremely rapid population growth, over-exploitation of natural resources, climate change, the spread of plant diseases and pests, and the global increase in demand for plant products intended for human and animal nutrition have put the provision of quality and safe food back on track. It should be stressed that the management of many harmful organisms will continue to be one of the conditions for ensuring an appropriate level of agricultural production or ensuring safe food supply. Plant protection products are used in almost all areas of agricultural production. They are intended to prevent or reduce losses caused by harmful organisms and to improve the quality of production and the profitability of agricultural production. From the point of view of users, resources represent an extremely contradictory way of providing sufficient food, as they can affect nutritional value and sometimes food safety. The use of these means poses a certain risk to humans and the environment, mainly in acute toxicity, pollution and environmental pollution. The introduction of these resources also affects the existing animal world and many beneficial organisms. In their impact on animals, there is no way to avoid the problem of bee poisoning, although it is not possible to fully attribute the use of plant protection products. I would like to stress that the strategy of Slovenian agriculture should be aimed at establishing and ensuring an adequate high level of agricultural production while at the same time taking care of the environment and human health. With this proposal, Slovenia undertakes to ensure that, in the context of the management of plant diseases and pests, it is constantly concerned with the rational use and reduction of risks and the impact of the use of plant protection products on human health and the environment. The national action programme, mandatory integrated plant protection against harmful organisms and public information on plant protection products and their impact on human health and the environment are also important novelties of the bill. It is important that the bill does not contain additional restrictions on farmers as users. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Democratic Party's Group will support the pensioner's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The fact is, as much food as we consume every day, it is very difficult to produce in a natural way or without different starches. The basic objective of the proposed law is to achieve sustainable and safe use of plant protection products in our agriculture. The law regulates, inter alia, pesticide transport measures, education of their users and testing of devices for their entry into the environment, and builds, inter alia, provisions on public information on plant protection products and their impact on human health and the environment. These measures aim to reduce the risk to human health while trying to protect the environment from uncontrolled use of plant protection products. The law will also bring certain administrative and, consequently, financial burdens for farmers, while maintaining high standards in the field of plant protection products management. It should be stressed that this law also transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the 2009 Directive of the European Union on the sustainable use of pesticides. While the Directive should have entered into force in Slovenia in 2011, this was not possible due to the specific political situation. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law with the desire to be an additional stone in the mosaic of the start of Slovenian agriculture and economy, which we urgently need.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u52	Have a nice hello to you all. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on plant protection products, which we are considering today, introduces into the Slovenian legal order the content laid down in the European Pesticides Directive adopted in 2009. This lays down uniform rules on the use of funds for all Member States in order to reduce the risk of such funds being used for human health and the environment. Sustainable development, which means economic growth without excessive or unsustainable environmental burdens, is the only development model acceptable to Slovenia in the view of Positive Slovenia. In our country, we have already witnessed the stepmother’s attitude towards the environment, which has caused some areas to be permanently degraded and have a negative impact on the health of the population. Sufficient stocks of clean drinking water and sufficient production capacity for food production are the strategic raw material of the present and future for each country. Intensive agricultural production through excessive use of harmful plant protection products can permanently damage both drinking water and agricultural land. Therefore, positive Slovenia will always and everywhere strive for such agriculture, which, on the one hand, will provide sufficient quantity of safe, quality, variety and consumer-friendly food, on the other hand, the environment will leave it in such a state that it will also be possible for our craftsmen to do the same. We estimate that the directive and the law which transposes it into the Slovenian legal order are a step in the right direction to achieve these objectives. In particular, we welcome the introduction of a mandatory integrated plant protection system, which will become a basic standard of agricultural production at the level of the European Union in 2014, and the envisaged adoption of a comprehensive national action plan setting and monitoring the achievement of the objectives set in the area of sustainable use of plant protection products. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u54	The first plant protection product law was adopted in 2001 and supplemented in 2004 by amended legislation at the level of the European Union and changed circumstances due to Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The next amendment was in 2007, which introduced an amended method of selling plant protection products. The new law will no longer deal in more detail with the registration procedure for plant protection products, as it is already prescribed by Regulation 1107/2009 of the European Community. The new law will only determine the competent authorities, conditions and procedures for the appointment of experts for the evaluation of active substances and plant protection products. The new law does not regulate the transport and use of plant protection products, as this is regulated in the applicable law and in the Regulation of the European Community. It lays down mandatory training for plant protection counsellors, provides for the possibility of issuing additional rules for the protection of surface water bodies and drinking water sources, provides for the possibility of issuing a regulation to further protect other specific areas, introduces mandatory integrated plant protection, provides for the implementation of annual information and public awareness programmes relating to plant protection products, provides a legal basis for the adoption of a national action programme where the health, social, economic and environmental impacts of the measures envisaged are to be taken. The purpose of this law is to use plant protection products in a way that enables the development of sustainable and competitive agriculture and ensures a high level of protection of human and animal health and environmental protection. It introduces mandatory application of integrated plant protection against harmful organisms and encourages alternative approaches and techniques in the field of their suppression, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will therefore support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, on Thursday 25 October 2012, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the first draft of the law on amendments to the law on higher education. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 22 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan, requested the DZ to hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Žiga Turku, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members! The Novela of the Higher Education Act regulates four key amendments. The first amendment is an extension of the deadlines for extending the accreditation of universities. This is the change that brings about other changes. Under the Higher Education Act, three state universities should be up to 1 at the latest. 11. 2010 to submit an application for external evaluation, which is a condition for the extension of accreditation. NAKVIS, this is the Agency for Quality in Higher Education, should carry out procedures no later than 31. 12. 2012. That didn't happen. As this has not happened, the loss of accreditation of some higher education organisations in Slovenia and all related problems in this area are threatening. Because someone has missed their hands because someone has not read the law, they have to jump to the aid of the state, the government, Parliament has to work to move these hands far enough further so that all studies continue to be accredited. This is not the responsibility of the Ministry, nor are you here in Parliament, the responsibility of the NAKVIS. We are also changing the composition of the NAKVIS world in the same breath, following consistently the provisions of the coalition contract, which introduces the representation of professional areas and users of educational services, i.e. employers and students, instead of the corporate composition of the universities themselves. It should be noted that this Council of NAKVIS in its current composition has adopted a work programme which, because it has not been in line with the law, has compromised the foundations of the higher education system. The urgency of the procedure or this change is also justified by Slovenia being able to compete for membership in ENQA in 2013, an international association of these agencies, which in its guidelines foresees not only the independence of these authorities from the influence of politics, but also from higher education institutions. The current composition of the world of NAKVIS does not meet these conditions in any way. We're in charge of transnational education. Slovenia has received a reminder from the European Commission due to inadequate transnational education arrangements. Currently, such education is regulated so that foreign higher education institutions can come to Slovenia only if they conclude a contract with one of the local higher education institutions, which is contrary to the legal order of the European Union. Due to inadequate regulation, we have received a reminder from the European Commission, and if we do not handle this, they will start proceedings against us and sooner or later we will also pay the penalty. The fourth amendment relates to the amendment of Article 63 of the Law, which refers to the direct pedagogical obligation of higher education teachers. This one's fixed to six hours a week. Universities want, quote, "more flexibility in this area." And the change in the direction that a direct pedagogical obligation is normally six hours a week also allows them to be flexible. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I propose that you adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. And Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Higher Education Act mainly deals with amendments and additions which regulate the opening of a re-accreditation procedure, the modification of the composition of the Council of NAKVIS, the arrangements for a direct pedagogical obligation and the arrangements for transnational education. Although it is clear that changes and additions are needed, which is agreed upon by all involved, they have sparked a lot of controversy in the public. The draft law amends a vague provision concerning the initiation of a re-accreditation procedure. The provision does not cover sufficiently clear procedures for re-accreditation, so as to specify more precisely the application procedure when extending the deadlines for the extension of accreditation of higher education establishments and consequently prevents them from being without accreditation without their own fault for procedural reasons. With these more precise provisions, we will certainly avoid controversy in the future with different interpretations of the provision. The law amends the deadline for the submission of the application for re-accreditation, taking into account the delay in the implementation of the re-accreditation due to the time delay in the acceptance of the accreditation criteria and the external evaluation of the NAKVIS human resources restrictions. This will enable the re-accreditation of higher education institutions to be done in a more qualitative manner, which will also help to raise quality and increase confidence in Slovenian higher education institutions and diplomas and charters and in their international credibility and visibility. The members of the Council shall be appointed by the Government among the proposed candidates. The Council will still have 11 members. Of these, 8 will be in the field of higher education, and they have appropriate habilitation in the area for which they are proposed. In addition to the 8 higher education members mentioned above, there are two students and one who will represent the economy. Amendments bring the independence of NAKVIS from higher education institutions or changes to a considerable degree of corporate regulation in this area. NAXIS therefore remains the regulator of the field, but it is no longer necessarily composed of those it regulates, but it is a fundamental element of the composition of expertise. The composition and method of appointment of the NAKVIS Council are also comparable to other European countries. While we would like to draw attention to the fact that independence is ensured by the way this agency operates, not by who appoints the proposed members. With regard to the appointment of the NAKVIS Council, we are asked certain questions and dilemmas, so we will propose appropriate amendments on the basis of the arguments heard in the discussion in the future. We want to contribute to the creation of the conditions for the Agency to be included in the European Register or for NAKVIS to be able to obtain the accreditation of the ENQA European Union. Complementary legislation also regulates direct pedagogical obligations, which means that more flexibility and autonomy are introduced as to how an individual higher education organisation governs the direct pedagogical obligation of higher education teachers. By amending the law, the Rector of the University or the Dean of the Independent Higher Education Institute shall be allowed to determine, in addition to the forms of direct pedagogical obligation, the number of hours of direct pedagogical obligation, allowing higher education institutions to become more independent and to take account of the differences in the development strategies of individual institutions and its members and to respect the legal order in this field. The transnational education regime is also complemented by taking into account the comments of the European Commission's official reminder and addressing the alleged obstacles to the freedom of establishment and the provision of services to higher education organisations. The current legislation increases the burden of a foreign higher education operator. Higher education transnational education may also be carried out by a foreign higher education institution or another institution if the holder of the programme belongs to a transnational higher education programme in place in the home country within the EU and checks the conditions of NAKVIS. Since changes and additions to the law increase confidence in Slovenian higher education institutions and increase international credibility and visibility and because the law amends and complements unclear provisions on accreditation and complements the system of appointment of NAKVIS members, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education in the Parliamentary Group. We support efforts to increase the quality, autonomy, responsiveness and openness of higher education both within the national system and in the international space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a novel of the Higher Education Act, which has raised much more dust in recent months than was expected at the outset, despite the fact that the bill contains a total of nine substantive articles, the other seven being of a transitional nature. Allow me to focus first on the content of the proposed law, and later I will touch on the problems of Slovenian higher education and the reasons for its current unenviable position. The proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act introduces four amendments. The first relates to the extension of the deadlines related to the re-accreditation and external evaluation of study programmes or higher education institutions, thereby enabling the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, so-called NAKVIS, to improve the quality of evaluation and the smooth implementation of public study programmes for higher education institutions. In the event of a non-extension of deadlines and, as a consequence, the non-requisitional execution of recreditations could result in a situation where diplomas obtained on these programmes were not publicly valid, students without examinations, and employees at these higher education institutions without employment, since the State should not finance them due to the loss of accreditation. The second amendment concerns the composition of the Council of NAKVIS following the recommendations of the European Union for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, which foresees the independence of national regulators not only from politics but also from higher education institutions under the supervision of NAKVIS. Opponents of the novel talk about politicalization and intervention in autonomy, which is due to the fact that all members of the world will be appointed by the government. This is true, but it is not said that the Government will only be able to appoint members of the Council on the basis of proposals made by all higher education stakeholders, so not voluntarily and politically, as some claim. The proposals of the members of the Council remain exactly the same as they are now, reducing only the impact of the Rector's Conference, which, instead of three members, will be able to propose one, which is more appropriate in terms of regulatory autonomy. The government itself will not be able to appoint a single member, unlike now that it can voluntarily appoint two members of the world. Therefore, professional and structural criteria and not so much representative criteria will be highlighted, which according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group is more appropriate. The third amendment concerns the release of transnational education in accordance with the European Internal Market Services Directive, which facilitates the establishment of foreign higher education organisations abroad. It is worth noting that we do not have much room for manoeuvre here, because otherwise we are at risk of being punished by the European Commission. The fourth and last amendment concerns the amendment of Article 63 of the Basic Law, in the direction of greater autonomy of university rectors or dean of independent higher education institutions, which the Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe will allow for greater flexibility in the organisation of work in higher education. These are, therefore, the four amendments envisaged by the proposed novels. As you can see, there is no speech in it about the introduction of tuitions, the dismissal of employees, the establishment of three new private universities and anything else, which was recorded in one of the petitions against the law that we heard in the public presentation of the opinions that took place in this Chamber last Monday. Let me say that this public presentation of my opinions personally as well as other Members of the Slovenian People's Party has been very disappointing. Disappointed because there was very little talk about the contents of the novel itself, the counter-arguments were very flat-rate, and above all the talk was about things that had nothing to do with the proposed law. In short, the conflict between the most influential higher education stakeholders on the one hand and the ministers on the other, which did not bring us any added value to Members who are obliged to make prudent decisions, with the exception of some of the debaters who came mainly from the economy. Moreover, in the debate, extremely harsh words were spoken [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] . Could you allow me to say it normally?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u61	Here you go, Mr. Prevc, keep going. Please, colleagues and colleagues, in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u62	Moreover, in the debate there were extremely harsh words, such as the fight to life and death. To life and death? Where exactly in the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act, which changes the composition of the Council of NAKVIS in a European comparable way, extends the deadlines for accreditation of higher education institutions and programmes, regulates transnational education under the European Directive and leaves the establishment of a basic educational obligation to higher education institutions, we do not know where this is located in the Slovenian People's Party Group. We do know, however, that the situation in Slovenian higher education has been worrying for a long time, which is not the result of this year's national budget rebalancing, nor is it the amendment to the law of this year's state budget rebalancing, nor is it the amendment to the Higher Education Act that we are considering today. The reasons for the current state of the Slovenian higher education system are mainly in an inadequate way of funding, which relates only to the number of students enrolled, in an unhealthy relationship between the number of students of sociology and science or technical sciences, in the weak link between higher education and the economy and in this failure to adapt the number of study places to the needs of the labour market, which makes youth unemployment extremely high and, consequently, many of them see no longer the future in us. Your Honor! These are problems that have not since yesterday, even less as a result of the circumstances surrounding the preparation and adoption of today's reading novel. These are problems that have been caused in recent years, or that have been adequately addressed by both the state, universities, higher education institutions and, last but not least, by students. However, the solution to these problems can only be achieved through reasonable dialogue, without figs in your pocket, but not with priori opposition to the opposition to the status quo at all costs, by signing petitions, by insults is not a similar reaction that sets a poor example for future generations of young people who are just entering the higher education sphere. One of the discussers at the public presentation said that the novel of the Law on Higher Education, I quote: "It brings long-term harm, interference with autonomy and independence of institutions and a decline in quality", the end of the quote. Long-term damage in higher education began ten years ago when the number of admissions to certain study programmes, in particular in the field of social education, began to rise steadily while the number of admissions to natural and technical programmes on the same level or even decreased. Long-term damage has been and continues to be caused by the closure, scientific research work in public research institutions and the inability to link properly with the economy. With rare exceptions, of course. The long-term damage was not least created by a single pay system, which only includes some pay grade higher than the kindergarten teacher's assistant with an eighth level of education or a young researcher. Unfounded claims regarding the interference of the proposed law with autonomy and the independence of institutions and the decline in quality may be later in the debate itself. As we can see, the problems are enormous. At the moment, however, the Law on Higher Education is a very useful tool for these problems, which would not have been reduced by the possible lack of acceptance of this novel. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that there are many problems in the area of higher education, which must not be overlooked, and we share the opinion of some of the participants in the public presentation of opinions. However, these problems need to be addressed in patient dialogue and mutual understanding and in the light of the current public financial situation that you do not want to take into account and adapt to. We believe that an agreement that will allow higher education to carry out its important social function is possible. The proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act does not provide a basis for fighting higher education stakeholders for life and death, but represents a small step towards improving their quality and independence and increasing their responsibilities to society as a whole. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u63	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome the minister and all present! The two debates held on higher education held within the framework of the parental committee in September and October also made much difference in addition to the general problems of the higher education system on the subject of this novel. Some see in this novel a reform of higher education that is supposed to disrupt autonomy in this part of the education system. Today's paper amends the Higher Education Act in four points. In the first place, it does not regulate sufficiently clear procedures for re-accreditation. Since most higher education institutions have not submitted applications for extension of accreditation in due time, the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education has not adopted a programme of work in accordance with the statutory deadlines, provisions on the extension of accreditation are being amended. The extension of the dates related to the re-accreditation and external evaluation of higher education institutions allows the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education to carry out these evaluations and to the higher education institution to carry out accredited quality programmes, which are publicly valid study programmes. This is the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, in the form of appointment of members. There's still an 11-member hold. In doing so, through a public call from the Ministry, the Government will appoint members, including those proposed by individual groups. It is the selection of 8 members in the field of higher education, of whom at least one member must be appointed on the proposal of a rector conference, one member on the proposal of trade unions and one member on the proposal of higher education institutions. The second group is from a number of students, where they are named 2 members and the third group is from an economy where one member is elected. Therefore, they will still have the possibility of proposing all existing higher education stakeholders, but not directly, but through a public call, and eventually the representatives of the NAKVIS will be appointed by the Government. The new method of appointment will remove the current regime, which actually leads to the fact that higher education organisations whose quality is controlled are essentially controlled by themselves. The new proposed way is to look at a comparative review that is also present in other countries. With regard to the entry of foreign higher education institutions into Slovenia, it is necessary to take into account the European Commission's admonition that the current system for the implementation of transnational education constitutes a restriction on the freedom to establish higher education activities in the context of the freedoms guaranteed within the European Union and the free movement of people. Under the proposed regime, the implementation of foreign education will be possible if the holder of the study programme and the transnational programme in the country of origin are recognised as part of their higher education system. However, the Charter of Completed Education will be considered a foreign instrument in our country and will be subject to a procedure governing the recognition of education in the Republic of Slovenia. The last set of amendments to the current law is to complement the regulation of the direct pedagogical obligation of higher education staff, leaving them to the university, the rector, the dean, to increase or reduce the obligations of lecturers in accordance with the principle of flexibility according to the scope and content of its specific work. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the law is suitable for adoption and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u65	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In Novi Slovenije, we wrote in the programme that we will strive for such a higher education that will meet the needs of students while at the same time allowing them to obtain the desired employment after a completed study. When analysing statistics on the number of students enrolled, the number of completed studies and the number of graduates who are able to work, it can be found that this is not the case. A relatively high percentage of students fail to complete their studies, while economists point out the problem they are increasingly encountering in order to fail to obtain sufficient quality engineering personnel. Unfortunately, on the other hand, a large number of graduate sociologists fail to find suitable employment. The fact is that the employment of students in Slovenia has been neglected in the past and that certain changes are necessary in this area. Cooperation between higher education institutions and the economy should be strengthened. The economy should also be involved in the preparation of study programmes in a certain way, as it is only in the future that we can expect the appropriate competence of students and their employability after the end of the study. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed amendment of the Higher Education Act, while at the same time we hope that Slovenian higher education will be able to properly modernise and become in contact with the economy, which will offer young people both a scholarship and later employment, and thus, of course, a brighter future for young generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u67	On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the word of Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The new law on higher education is another marriage proposal of the United Ministry, the main feature of which is that it is a married child, which is unadulterated and therefore weak. In other words, it is a proposal that highlights three points that can in many ways be designed as a goal. All that we have heard now about modernisation and everything else is actually ridiculous to attribute to this proposal. Point 1 is the proposal to intervene in the composition of the Council of NAKVIZ, which opens the door to the government at the helm to intervention in autonomy and independence of higher education. According to the new report, he should have 11 members, as you have already repeated several times, on the basis of a public call from the Ministry responsible for higher education, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of these, 8 members from higher education, two students and one member from the economy. All of these stakeholders, well, somehow there is no directly higher education representative among them, are invited to propose their candidates, that is true, so far they have also been directly appointed, now they will be appointed by the Government. So this strawberry choir will be in the hands of the government. Why so, Minister Turk explained in his words that because the government must respond to the situation and, I quote, "the relatively poor reputation of the agency and the slowness of its work". This is how the agency is supposed to be depoliticized, as explained by the Secretary of State. The second point is the small word "rule" in Article 63, which allows universities to determine for themselves the teaching obligations which are fixed under the current legislation. This is done by public disrespect, as was done in one of the interviews by the President of the Government. The work of the higher education teacher is much more; all lectures are based on professional and research work, preparation for lectures, research and professional work, basic research work, work in research projects, cooperation with knowledge users and administrative work. When they're in the classroom, there's only a small piece in their workshop. It's like that all over the world. As not only government representatives walk the world but also other high school participants, it is easier to understand why such a short time for their comments on the law. There would be a lot of strong arguments that would be difficult to come up with. Even them. Third point. The problem is so-called transnational learning, whose urgency no one denies. The bigger problem is how, according to the newly named NAKVIS, we can believe in the impartiality of the verification of foreign programmes to be implemented in our country. To put it mildly, the new Article 33c is unclear, as this opens up Slovenian space to foreign institutions without quality control. It also points to this, I quote the minister, "a relatively poor reputation and slow NAKVIS". The relationship between the foreign higher education institution or another foreign institution and the seat of the institution of the higher education programme is unclear. Incomprehensible is the last part of the new third paragraph, which establishes what is recognised by the competent authorities of the country where the institution of the study programme is established. The competent authorities of the State recognise that, in the case of a transnational higher education programme, they belong to their higher education system, they must also recognise that it is the transnationally implemented higher education programme in their higher education system. The Agency therefore rightly wonders how, in the absence of a clear provision, it should comply with the law under which the criteria governing transnational education must be aligned with the provisions of the amended law within 30 days of its entry into force. These are just three points that will be presented more broadly and with more perspectives in today's debate. The questions of accreditation of higher education institutions would not have been mentioned at all, since all doubts had already been raised in the public debate. However, in this bill we can simply ask why we should intervene so radically in something that is good, as shown by the data and graphs that are so popular in this coalition mandate. Some were also presented in a public debate, but everything shows that the government, as regards arguments that are not in line with its sacred agenda, is not visible. For Positive Slovenia, the novelty of the law is not suitable for further consideration, as these solutions, which are opposed by most stakeholders, cannot and must not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u69	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u70	Your Honor! All welcome, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Why should we interfere with such a law as some claim to be so good? The reason for this is obvious if we want to see him. The first reason why this law should be adopted as soon as possible – I regret that there was no faster procedure that the Rules of Procedure, even confirmed, I think this was a mistake – is because the European Union requires it. We went to the European Union on the basis of a referendum or plebiscite, as we said at the time, people's decisions. We are committed to this and are committed to respect its rules of play. And we have already received a reminder that the area of Slovenian higher education should also be opened up to foreign competition, competition within the European Union, and therefore to respect free movement in this area. I firmly believe that anyone who is not naive in this loving country is so confident that those who shout out loud that the law should be adopted more slowly, that they should carry out any public presentation and public controversy about this law for months or years after the European Commission, which has already served the following act, which will then also punish themselves, would normally be the day's penalty at the height of a medium-class car. Some of them, as you know, have already paid Slovenia. It must have been those same people who would have cried out in a loud voice about the responsibility to pay for it by those in their pocket who caused the delay, and so forth. Of course, it is shortsighted to fall for such words, to do what is right, but it is responsible and in the SDS Group we will take into account the fact that Slovenia has already received a warning in this area and will therefore do everything necessary to ensure that the rules of the European Union, even when it comes to greater openness in the field of higher education in Slovenia, are consistently respected. Another thought leads us to this, and this is simply the fact that in any area of long-term social life is the only thing that guarantees further development that guarantees the opening of new opportunities, competition. Competition at home and competition abroad. It was said that there would be no control over what would happen. This, of course, is not true; surveillance will be double. In the countries of the European Union, you know that there are rules for playing, that there are institutions within the countries that check quality, and that only those who fulfil the conditions of the home countries for transnational implementation of higher education programmes will be able to participate. It is said that they will already have to achieve some quality and thus satisfy the legal framework of their country. The second guardian is, according to an article that some of you have clearly read poorly and reads, "the fulfilment of the conditions set out in this paragraph is checked by the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education". So the same institution, which also decides on quality if you want, or accreditation when it comes to Slovenian, for our domestic operators or institutions. This is said to exist, in any case, and some quality will be assured. In the modern world, it is necessary to unwind without fear of a door to competition, for otherwise stagnation begins and, of course, the consequences are also bad. It is interesting in Slovenia that a declaration was adopted in the previous term, which has just stated that three universities for Slovenia are more than enough. This may be in the interest of which, who works at these universities, is in the interest of the structures at these universities, but surely this cannot be in the interest of the State as a whole, because it is not true that the quantity depends or that the quantity is of the opposite quality. If you look, say, Taiwan or any other country, you will see that an extremely large number of universities have a population, yet many of them are among the first five hundred most prestigious higher education institutions in the world. Many of them! That is to say, what to compare and draw wrong data or wrong conclusions from it, because you choose the cases that fit you, and you overlook the rest, is, at least, unscientific. Another reason that may be even more important, why this law should be adopted and why it is justified, not only justified, but necessarily hastening by adopting this law is the interest of the universities themselves and, above all, of the students who study at these universities. Because the fact is, because of the problems with accreditation presented by the Minister in his opening presentation, there could be harmful consequences for students who are studying there. We are therefore committed to acting in the interests of our country, higher education institutions and, above all, students, and therefore to speed up the adoption of this law. These are two reasons why this law is important and also necessary – the demands of the European Union, the reminders we have already received from the European Commission and the interest of Slovenian students and students. In addition, this law responds well to some other comments made by the European Union in particular with regard to the composition of certain institutions, specifically the Council of NAKVIS. It's very interesting how it's interpreted. In this case, a mechanism is in place here that will only give the government so much space that it will have to respect what will be presented to it, while it will practically not be able to interfere with the decisions of others. Now this space was even bigger than anyone had mentioned; in two, the government could have had a purely free choice. But what's even more interesting is how it's supposed to be that it wants to force some kind of impression that so far it's a professional thing, but now there's going to be politics. You know, if this is done by customers, let's say one of the biggest universities in this country that is extremely well connected to Zares – a party that, in the last term, was appointed by one of the biggest universities in this country by one of the presidents of its local or city committee in that city – that's probably not too convincing for the people we know. Politically, by the way, there are many reasons that Positive Slovenia can be seen in many ways as the successor of Zares, who has managed to break into parliament with some other staff, but one of the arguments for this should be in the first place, but today it is not in session, perhaps we will still be joined, ma'am, later. Well, anyway, the fact is that politics here has been present in the past period. It is a question of how to find an appropriate answer to the fact that all areas are equally and adequately represented on the professional side. From this point of view, I say that this law is much better than the one that has been in force so far. Answers some other questions that — interestingly — you have avoided those who have been critical of him, and you know exactly why. When it comes to the issue of conflict of interest, I personally think it is very good that the Rector's Conference itself now has less impact than it has had since the law. I also think it is very good that very precisely defined exceptions are not allowed to run because of the conflict of interest. This is much better than ever before in any legislation in this area. From this point of view, this law is a step forward, and it is important! And this step in a European comparable direction is not only comparable, because Europe also rightly requires and expects Slovenia, because in a wide range of areas, not only this, but wherever in the social life of Slovenia, the issue of conflict of interest is devoted to very little attention and it is therefore good that it is answered in an appropriate and timely manner. With regard to the issues of hours to be devoted and which has also opened up as I don't know what a big problem, it's actually kind of a funny thing. If we, Members, had decided specifically in the law, it would have seemed all right to those who were criticising politics. If the government had decided to do so, it would still be quite all right, but if the Rectors had decided to do so and had the right to decide for themselves, depending on the requirements, the needs they see within their higher education institution, their colleges, universities, to decide whether or not to make adjustments to the other work obligations, then that is the problem. This is the case if you leave it to the rectors, but for more freedom, for more autonomy, which, on the other hand, you declare yourself all the time. Just because this allows for more freedom, because this allows for more autonomy, it is a good step and also an appropriate action, and it means progress in the autonomy of the university in view of the situation so far. However, it allows each university to respond adequately to the demands of the environment, to the changed circumstances, to work obligations, perhaps also to a different relationship between students who will appear in a short time. I certainly firmly believe that the wrong fear, which stems from many of the debates we have witnessed in the last period, is the fear of competition. Competition in itself is nothing bad, competition – on the contrary! – is something good and urgent. That is why I was very pleased when these changes turned out to be very supportive within entrepreneurship. Those from the economy who have also participated directly in public presentations of opinions, as well as many others who have spoken or informed us of their views during this period, have made it very clear that these changes are necessary and welcome because they mean opening up some additional options, additional space and going in the right direction; in the direction that Slovenia needs. Because what kind of system does it have to be? The state must only set a framework; the framework within which the basic criteria must be laid will, of course, be provided by the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, on the basis of which, we know, the system of accreditation will come and there must be maximum competition within this system, and then students should decide for themselves what they want and who they give priority to. It is unacceptable, however, that some structures that have had the opportunity to set up somewhere could be barricaded and protected by laws and that nothing in this room could be opened up, nothing could be changed, but that this would be a political decision that would really respect only the personal interests of these structures, not the interests of students, not the interests of young people, but the interests of the country that needs the most educated, well-educated young people, who will not only have knowledge, but will experience something else that I miss today in the entire system of Slovenian education – and I want to stress this today – especially – and this is the ability and value of entrepreneurship to be able to sell it properly on the world market, these qualities that we have in Slovenia, and on the basis of which many foreign countries are also rich, also capable of themselves in entrepreneurial terms, are also adequately sold on the world market. Only this will open up a new development opportunity for Slovenia and, from this point of view, this law is positive, it is good and we will support it in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u71	Even on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! For starters, allow me to sigh with Dante: "Lasciate fires Speranza, voi ch'entrate. O ye who enter, let everyone go." The discussions that we have had in connection with higher education in this mandate have, although I am known not to despair blindly, prepared me to be expected to hear each other, even less respected and respected. For the first time, we were familiar with the issues relating to higher education at the ZUJF and at the time of the rebalancing. The whole academic sphere, the teachers and the students, like they weren't talking like they weren't there! This led to the case, as the coalition initially set itself up — and that's where the stories began. It continued with the request of the Social Democrats to convene an emergency meeting, which is intended to respond precisely to questions related to the unusual speed with which the Ministry has forwarded the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education following the urgent procedure of all two days available for comments by the professional public and then on the basis of how it is in the interest of the State and students, because the few will fail because the programmes will not be in force. Subsequently, the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia requested a public presentation of the opinions. We have had it, we have listened for hours, but some apparently have not heard anything again and at the same time speak very highly of different views. If the academic sphere answered the questions raised in the public presentation of opinions, as in the public presentation of opinions, it is responsible to look over the narrow fence, but to see what is involved in the area of public representation of opinions, it is now taken for evil and seems too much to some. However, I think it would be right for Members and Members of this call to read a resolution on higher education and then to find out that there is a binary system: one that is more focused on practical education and is higher education, and the other that is more into scientific research and is a college programme. But no! It is happening to us that we see higher education only as a space that will reproduce staff for the economy and for entrepreneurship. It's like the university isn't much else! And now this great family of competitiveness and foreign influences and foreign knowledge. Has anyone possibly read in Del the article From the success of American universities in the highest places on the charts? They're run by their former students. Not some people from elsewhere, but those who grew up in Harvard, Princeton, Yale, and so on, and they can follow enough of what's called development and perspective. Well, we now have a general hearing before us, which was also requested by Positive Slovenia at the intervals of one week. One would think that some have remembered something from the public presentation of opinions, but today's consideration has brought a new dimension to these views. I have listened to the Prime Minister's opening remarks and it has never been so clear so far that the amendment of the law is actually an account with NAKVIS. Today, the finger was shown at the NAKVIS, which is how it needs to be changed and replaced. Let us now do the marriage a little differently than has been said. I will not read from the introduction what the Ministry has written down, but I will say that the Higher Education Act has failed to realize what it should have done after the Constitutional Court's decision. The Higher Education Act should set the scope of the public service and also set funding sources. In February of this year, the deadline expired — none of this marriage. So if we were to fix this, then we'd do some important work. Second. Accreditation. Let's see what's wrong with them. From the original proposal from the end of August to what we are now dealing with at the request of the opposition on a regular basis, a very interesting novelty has crept into the proposed amendment. This sneaks up – not on purpose, I think – to which they have also warned in the public presentation of opinions; that is, if someone misses the deadline for applying for accreditation, re-accreditation, it may be possible for the higher education institution to re-apply for the first accreditation of the higher education institution. Well, it should be known that there is a significant difference in the difficulty of new accreditation and re-accreditation. Because if some remained until the end of the public presentation of opinions, then they would hear that the re-accreditation process is also being reviewed on the ground, they will see what the premises are, how the professors are, how the rights of students are protected, how the infrastructure is provided and so on. If I conclude – I have not listed everything – re-accreditation is much more difficult than new accreditation. It is not necessary to have a lot of imagination to remind you that accreditation to some institutions, independent and other, is now taking place slowly and will instead make it possible for more demanding accreditations to apply for new accreditation and thus circumvent more demanding conditions. It's about transnationalism or internationalization. Article 33 of the Higher Education Act already in force. What's the news? Transnational education is a fact, it cannot be avoided. Nor is there any concern among the Social Democrats that this should be specifically resisted, for us it is only the quality and protection of the interests of students. What's going on now? Transnational education can now be contracted through higher education institutions in Slovenia. It is true that he has reviewed the terms of the NAKVIS, but so far it has been – well, and this is the real control – it has been written so far: "To the contract of the second and third paragraphs... " – this is among the institutions – "... this article must be agreed by the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education before the start of the implementation of higher education..." Now it's drawn! Someone's just going to look into it, but they're not going to decide whether it's appropriate or not. So much for the quality of control! This is what needs to be said, however, which is, of course, correctly written in the new proposal, and I think it must be written that students know what they are going into, so these students have also been warned in a public presentation of their opinions: "The list of completed transnational education in the Republic of Slovenia as part of a foreign higher education system is considered a foreign charter and is the subject of a procedure which regulates the evaluation or recognition of education in the Republic of Slovenia." So much for protecting students' interests. It is therefore not purely equivalent because the student will have to carry out procedures at such an institution where credit points will be reviewed and similar matters. Well, in this new proposal, which we are considering on a regular basis, there is another change, which I would also like to point out, even more, but I will say – the originally envisaged 13 members of the Council of NAKVIS have now replaced only 11 members of the Council of NAKVIS, as in the law in force. But, you know, talking about the fact that the government doesn't have a choice to name, but it's a little too much because in the original law, the government got proposals, one of which was then appointed by one local and one foreign expert. Now that's gone, the minister makes a call and picks them up; how and what is another story. And now let me tell you just a little bit more about NAKVIS, or about the commission or quality agency, which is actually the basis of higher education, for which public funding is contributed. The Agency was first established in 2004 and was subsequently terminated and replaced by the Higher Education Council in the first term by Ivan Janša. Some know him well because he has helped them until their habilitation, and some also benefit directly from it because he has allowed them to establish private higher education institutions. But then, in 2009, when we changed the law again, and in 2010, the agency did not do all the work, only to allow this agency to start operating normally, especially because the ENQA integration process started, which is part of this international quality assurance association in higher education. I am particularly happy to say this to all those who take so much for competitiveness, at least in words. Then, of course, it should be said that the admission process in ENQA is longer because there is much to be examined, but I will end with what Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič said, which said it is good to know that ENQA is extremely sensitive to the independence and autonomy of national institutions which judge quality in higher education. The introductory part of the law also presents the case of Sweden and another, and there is a reference that the government also appoints, but when ENQA reviewed the Swedish agency, which is one of the key founding members of ENQA, according to which it now says, here I quote a magnetogram – I quote in translation, just a summary, or else the publication of the report is already on the website. In fact, the Swedish agency recently went through the revision of standards. The report states that it cannot be regarded as independent because of the extent to which its procedures and methods, as well as the objectives, are dictated by the Government. So the government has too much power. And that's all there is to it. Those who advocate the autonomy of universities, the autonomy of higher education, know that the programmes do not write an economy, that the Rectors and Deans do not love politics, but that the Rectors and Deans elect the Senate of individual institutions. And that we are once again witnessing the beating of dignity, autonomy and self-evaluation of higher education. One can only be sad because when I listened to the opinions of the coalition representatives, it is not expected that anything would change in this proposal. And I'm not going to repeat that very common quote about the caravan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u73	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr Dragan Bosic, followed by Mr Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Hello! I would continue where the predecessor ended up in autonomy. In fact, the law itself, as we have stated in our views, will not receive our support, but will add some thought. First of all, Dante was mentioned. Dante – as we know or hope to know – was a student of the University of Bologna; a university where the story of autonomy actually began 1158. The story is a little funny in its own way because Frederick Barbarossa gave autonomy to some of his personal interests. There's probably someone here who could comment on this kind of autonomy. However, he was very pleased with the lawyers who studied there and gave them autonomy. This autonomy – that is, I would like to define this autonomy. Autonomy is based on autonomy, on freedom, on reason. I am of the opinion that the Minister responsible for this department must guarantee independence and freedom to the university and that the university must provide understanding itself. This is my view of this problem, so I might end with a quote or read it: "If you are responsible for something, it is normal that you also have the appropriate levers or powers in this area. You can't be responsible for things you have no control over." That's your quote, Mr. Secretary. This one is completely true, but I think this is where the responsibility comes from that you don't have any influence. That's my opinion. So you're responsible for not doing anything. So you're not intruding. And I am concerned by the repeatedly mentioned NAKVIS, which represents one lever of influence. This means that if we want autonomy, it can be what it is; it is said that you cannot be less autonomous, more autonomous, partly autonomous. You're either autonomy or you're not. So whether you guarantee it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u75	Mr. Just Bevk, followed by Mrs. Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! For a long time it has not been in higher education between university teachers and students any government proposal has borne as much excitement, uncertainty and dissatisfaction as this government has done with the amendment of the Higher Education Act and, earlier, with the Law on Public Finance Balance and the Rebalance of the State Budget for 2012. With the rebalancing alone and the regulation on public funding for higher education institutions, resources for three public universities decreased by almost EUR 20 million or slightly more than 9% in 2011, according to 2011. The 2013 and 2014 draft budgets, however, reduced the funding of higher education by more than €45 million or 17%, according to 2011. One of the priority areas of the previous Pahor government, unlike the current one, was the very area of higher education, science and technology. Therefore, it is not a coincidence that for the first time since Slovenia's independence, public investment in research and development has increased significantly. In the previous mandate, R & D funds increased almost twice, from €190 million in 2008 to €362 million in 2011, representing almost 1% of GDP. Public funding for tertiary education has also increased by 22%. After the proportion of these funds, i.e. after the development intensity, we have captured the developed countries of the European Union and have thus indicated the most important step towards a modern, knowledge-based and technological development society. This, however, is one of the essential elements for a way out of the current crisis and for the rebirth of our society. During the previous mandate, two key strategic documents were also drawn up in a multi-month public debate within the professional public, namely the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020 and the Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020. Both documents were also marked by a high level of consensus among the actors involved in their design. The former government has also established a national quality assurance system in higher education. With the amendment of the Higher Education Act, it has enabled the establishment of a National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, thereby ensuring the necessary independent functioning of the quality assurance system. NAKVIS was set up, adopted new accreditation criteria and started implementing the project by 2014. According to the new bill, we are witnessing the political takeover of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, as it will be difficult for the Government to avoid the temptation to appoint members with political pedigree in NAKVIS. NAKVIS is likely to become a government council for higher education and will be able, on the basis of its competences, to complete tertiary education according to the ambitions of the political majority. The autonomy of universities, which is a universal civilizational acquisition, will be thwarted. The internationalisation of higher education is also inconceivable. Without an accredited foreign higher education institution in Slovenia, with only some recognition by the home country that such a institution belongs to its higher education system, the rectors, students and trade unions of Slovenia believe that the Slovenian higher education area would open up to foreign institutions without proper control over quality, which could mean for students without the rights that apply under our legislation and payment of market fees. The novel also softens the determination of the employment and pedagogical obligation of employees, since the direct educational obligation should no longer be laid down by law, but would be arbitrary, dependent on the rector of a particular university or dean of a particular higher education institution. In the face of tight financial conditions, this means, on the one hand, a disproportionate increase in teaching obligations to individual higher education teachers and, on the other hand, their dismissal. Apparently, the government underestimates the intellectual potential of this country, subordinates social systems, financially poor public education on the one hand, and the rich financing of private institutions on the other. Under the cover of a crisis exit and widespread savings, the foundations of a modern Slovenian society are collapsing, which should be based on knowledge and innovation. And one last thing. To get out of the crisis, we need development and innovative solutions. We need development engineers who will be able to create new products with high added value. Unfortunately, our leading managers were involved in the ownership of the companies they were running, rather than in the development, search for new products and new markets. Before 1990, Slovenian companies had about 4 thousand 500 development engineers, in the middle of the 1990s, barely a thousand 400, because we decommissioned industry and shut down development departments in factories. Just remember Sparkle with over 33,000 employees! What's left of it today? Last year, when I looked at the production in Samsung in Seoul and their museum, Iskra was in the 1970s and 1980s far ahead of them. Today the Big Spark is gone, and Samsung is the world's leading corporation. One of the development conferences in Brussels highlighted the need to build a system in the real sector from development and patent to production. Some specific information on the number of patents was also presented at this conference. The United States has 27% of new patents and the European Union has 32% and Asia has 38%. However, when compared with the production data on these patents, the vast majority of production in Asia. As a result, Asia has patents and jobs today, and the US and Europe are facing an extremely high level of unemployment. That is why governments and development banks in both the European Union and Slovenia should financially stimulate science and development and the production of new products and restore and preserve Europe as one of the leading global innovators and producers. So, without adequate support for higher education of science and technology, this will not be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u77	Mrs. Jasmina Opec, behind her is Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The maximum proportion of young people enrolled in tertiary education in Europe and one of the minimum proportions of young people employed up to thirty years of age. I believe that each of us wants this statistics to be due to the fact that young people want to study for developing their own potential and that as a result we have diplomats who are looking for market goods both in Slovenia and abroad. However, with such a blow to the sand, not only do we harm thousands of young people, present and future generations, but we do not end up harming ourselves and the country in which we live. It must be admitted that in Slovenia we have a higher education system that does not function well, which has errors that are not from today, not from yesterday and not this year. That we have a higher education system that produces diplomats who often don't even want the Slovenian economy, let alone make them foreign. That we have theories that are sometimes difficult to find in practice and that, by means of a diploma, instead of opening doors to a wider world, we condemn them to a struggle for everyday survival: social assistance, fictitious entries, apathy, pessimism and consequently various dependencies. When young people come to the labour market after finishing their studies today, they find themselves in a situation that is hard to imagine, what it is like not to experience. Do you imagine that, for example, young people sometimes have to work for a year free to get the necessary work experience required by employers? Or do they work two or three degrees lower than their education if they want to survive? I come from the countryside alone, where young graduates are even more often faced with such stories and the eternal question: whether to stay and persist or simply to be the same somewhere else. In the eyes of the employer in the private sector, looking at a young man, you see fear. You see, he doesn't see a perspective in front of him, but something he doesn't know how he can use usefully in his work process. Employers keep stressing that school symmetries do not produce personnel that they could use immediately after schooling in their work process. And again, we're in a vicious circle of fictitious entries, social aid. However, employers are not in a position to resent this; they pay their own taxes and contributions, which somehow indirectly finance the school system and educate future staff. These same staff, which are expected to elevate economic business with the knowledge acquired during the course of schooling and thus contribute to economic growth. Yes, we have problems, and our responsibility to all these young ones is to deal with these problems! If we see that all these years the existing system has not brought us what we should have found, we must say that we are creating conditions for a better future for young people. Selfish and immoral is persistence in a situation in which due to the interest of a handful of professors or unionists or someone else we destroy young lives. This is not about and should not be about the interests of individuals, it is about the interests of future generations and countries as a whole. Once and for all in this country, it is necessary to accept that the school system is basically not teachers, professors or unionists. The basics are children and young people who are supposed to be able to develop their potentials and thus ensure a better future for themselves and for all of us. Young people deserve the future, I hope, and I sincerely wish that the coming changes represent this step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u79	Mrs. Iva Dimic, behind her, Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Much has already been said today, including in presentations, but today in Slovenia there is a tendency to study after high school or high school, which is very encouraging. However, something has to be done here, or if I compare it, today only the University of Ljubljana has over 41,000 students, more than twice as many as Oxford has. I am aware that it is difficult to compare universities such as Oxford with the University of Ljubljana, but I just wanted to point out that with more students, good results are far from being achieved. One of the problems, right here, is that university study is a low percentage of first-year graduates, thus losing an important part of the funding invested in higher education. Perhaps the reason is that it is these students who have the wrong incentive. If I say so, everyone here will probably get more and more questions from the professors, but what will we do with some fictitious student entries? The fictitious enrollments of students make it impossible for some students who have a serious purpose of studying to enter college. This is also a question for the future. For the future, there is also a question of college abroad where their own students teach and introduce new knowledge into the next generation. How's that working out for us? Unfortunately, some professors don't let the younger generation go. This is shown in the very way of employment, the condition of promotion and the system of remuneration. Thus Slovenian universities are in some way almost forced to hire almost exclusively Slovenian-speaking scientists, this of course strengthens the reputation of knowledge of the Slovenian language, with all due respect, and with new professional terms, but also foreign lecturers would make a significant contribution to the dissemination and dissemination of the knowledge offered. Maybe this way we could just keep some successful graduate away from going abroad. In the public presentation of the opinions on this novel, it was also possible to hear, among other things, that the sale of higher education was to be made to foreigners. I believe that these claims are greatly exaggerated. If we believe representatives of Slovenian universities who claim that the Slovenian higher education system is also of international quality, we have nothing to fear. The arrival or cooperation with the economy should also be strengthened in the future. I would just like to mention the achievement of the Faculty of Engineering in cooperation with the University Clinical Centre when they jointly developed a new method of breast reconstruction in cancer patients. Such a model reduced the duration of the operation, and he was also more friendly to the patients. I would also like to commend the Faculty of Engineering because according to the number of operations they perform, the mold can be made within 24 hours. I think that these are very good practices that have been underutilised in Slovenia, and that is where the economy and all institutions should approach them. That is why I believe that in the future we will all work together to improve cooperation and retention of graduates in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u81	Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski, for her mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Democracy is not only a government, but also an equal and patient dialogue based on rational arguments to protect the rights and interests of different minorities. It is necessary not only to talk about values but also to live by them and to enforce them. It can best serve its purpose when it involves the widest range of people and reflects in all areas of social life. In democracy, power is limited by laws, but true democracy is also characterised by self-limiting power. The proposed amendment of the law is based primarily on the questionable accreditation of the two largest Slovenian universities, and there are several interpretations that suggest a misinterpretation of the situation by the Ministry, which has already been rejected by the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education. In any event, changes are not necessary to the extent proposed, as solutions should be aligned with all stakeholders. The key issue at this point in the field of education, culture and science is why the Government is so drasticly interfering in these three areas for the nation. Why are we among the few countries that do this? More than that, we even outnumber them. I don't think it's clear to the Ministry's policy that it's not possible to make a quality university out of colleges that are classified as tens of thousands of places or worse. It is not clear that we will not get two of the same quality from one quality university by breaking down. However, there will be a number of private colleges growing on its burning ground that will have to prove quality, and this will cost students and all of us. I hope that the quality of higher education, the quality of diplomas, the quality of graduates is what is the common goal. That is precisely why we are concerned. What does the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education – bring long-term harm, interference with the autonomy and independence of institutions and a decline in quality! Finally, let me summarise the words of Minister Dr Turk: "The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has a long title, if we want to name it briefly, we could call it the Ministry of Creativity or the Ministry of the Future." I wonder – what future? Is this the department of knowledge sales?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u83	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, for her Mr. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u84	President-in-Office, Minister-in-Charge, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We know higher education is a responsibility, but knowledge is public good. In the latest version of the amendments and the novelties of the Higher Education Act, the proposal distances itself from European standards and guidelines, as it does not guarantee mandatory independence, representativeness and professional decision-making. In view of the proposed government measures and the proposed amendments to the University's Higher Education Act, they stress that they cannot take responsibility for the quality of higher education and education. By reducing resources to higher education and science at all levels, particularly at tertiary level, economic competitiveness and innovation will be less desirable. Indeed, higher education budgets are reduced by 18.81% and 36.22% for research activities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing laws without dialogue, undemocratically, but the National Assembly or coalition accepts them and therefore laws are often to the detriment of the population. The government and the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport are seeing hidden politics, silent privatisation, the introduction of hidden school fees, the change of programmes and, as a consequence, the likely decline in quality. NAKVIS is the only state agency with a special status as an independent budgetary user and should remain independent of stakeholders and policies. If we want the members of the world to be primarily independent of all Slovenian stakeholders, then we can get them from abroad so that someone does not accuse us of conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u85	Mr. Roman Jakič, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It's hard for the minister and this government to tell or to prove that it's wrong for the saw to know which one he's sitting on. Why is it hard to tell the minister that the saw is wrong? Because the branch on which he sits is not a public branch, and that's why he doesn't care, really. He doesn't care about public education and public universities, he's actually sitting in the next tree with some in the super ministry in charge of public higher education. On the private one that's watering it with public money and laughing at it when it comes to public speaking. Or, as the former Minister of Education said, the same minister on the one hand is talking about the crisis, and on the other hand, he never runs out of money for friends and party buddies in private colleges. But why is it difficult to change the course of the minister and this government? I scored three points. Because it is the goal of every autonomous and technical government – which the current government is definitely – to first account with public knowledge providers and this autonomous knowledge, which is still held by public universities in Slovenia. Just so you know: in addition to the JBTZ affair, one of the main drivers was us, who in the 1980s made a revolution in this country and fought for democracy, fighting for the autonomy of the university. For autonomy, which was discussed by colleague Bosić, the independent, free university, which has its own mind and develops its own mind. And it is definitely not true that the European Union commands intervention in the autonomy of the university! On the contrary! I think so. Secondly, why is it difficult to change the course of the minister and this government? Because every autonomous and technical government – which the current Slovenian government is – aims to prevent any material, scientific, cultural and spiritual growth. As Ivo Svetina says in one of her articles, all her efforts are to destroy the last remaining elites in Slovenia. Yes, Elite! But not the political elite, but the intellectual, scientific and cultural. It is no wonder, therefore, that you have already received an invitation from the university union in June, which says that the country promises students free studies, while at the same time predicting tuition in the national reform programme. That's the answer to what the colleague used to say about the students. And continues the union that it is becoming increasingly obvious that it is trying to reduce the quality of studies by artificially lowering the financial pressures on public universities and thus triggering the savage privatisation of higher education. And thirdly, why is it difficult for me to change the course of the minister and this government?, Because the goal of every autonomous and technical government, which the current Slovenian government is to literally do what the director of the Directorate for Higher Education and Science wrote in his column when he wrote a column as a recommendation to the Slovenian right – this is also interesting that the director of the Directorate writes columns and recommendations to the Slovenian right – where he wrote, quote: "The Slovenian spring can only be strong if he works on himself if he builds his own educational, personnel and communication infrastructure." That's what this is about, Mr. President! That's what this is about, Minister Turk!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u87	I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u88	I have filled out a list of observations on some of the debates, and if you'll excuse me, I'd get a little involved. It goes on in your debates, of course mainly in opposition, for two things; one part of the debate relates to the law before you, the other part of the debate refers to everything else, which could be linked to this law or where it is used, the words of the university, higher education, knowledge, culture, sport, youth and so on appear. With regard to the law itself, however, the number of debates in the minority, the scope of the debate on the law is getting shorter and everything is starting to be discussed. However, as regards the four points that are being amended by law, which are being dealt with by law, I do not recall that the extension of accreditation would be problematic. Arrangements for transnational education. However, some concern was expressed in this regard. I actually understand it as a fear of competition, a fear that a foreign school that is accredited abroad by an authority that is a member of ENQA in Slovenia would open its branch and have the opportunity to study at this school. We would have obtained a diploma from this foreign organisation, which might have to be ostrified, but perhaps not, depending on what kind of agreement Slovenia has with this country. The exact same opportunities, the same opportunities for Slovenian higher education organisations to open their programmes abroad, some also do so and thus improve their material position. These programmes are, of course, accredited by NAKVIS, as recognised in the country in which they are implemented, depending on each country individually. There were relatively few discussions with regard to Article 63, or with a direct pedagogical obligation. It is necessary to stress and reiterate why the Minister would have the right to something, but not the Rector. This is: to increase autonomy in this area. Then, of course, there were many discussions about everything possible. The law on the financing of higher education, which the previous government should have prepared by February this year, of course we are preparing and has nothing to do with this novel. Whether the Financing Regulation will be part of this law or a special law, it is still very open. I'm glad Mrs. Potts pointed out the Shanghai scale. Someone else warned you about that. On this Shanghai scale, the average number of private universities, not public universities, is in the first places. So I'm surprised that he's referring to this, because it shows that private universities aren't necessarily worse. When someone was talking about a The Shanghai scale is interested in how many articles, Nobel prizes, scientific references, etc. has gathered a university; regardless of the number of employees at this university, regardless of the number of scientists. Some very small school, which has few excellent people, has very few options on this scale. In public there was a mockery of information about some Slovenian private colleges in very low places on an online scale about the online presence of universities. Yes, of course they are. This matter has measured the online presence, meaning how many web indicators, articles, etc. indicates these institutions. These institutions are hundreds of times smaller than the University of Ljubljana, some are thousands of times smaller than the University of Ljubljana and have so much less because of the scale itself. I listened very carefully to the discussion on Sweden, which was given as an example that it would not be good for the government to appoint a council of NAKVIS — namely, the Swedish government appoints an appropriate body in Sweden. But I listened very carefully to this debate by Mrs Pate, and she made it very clear that ENQA should raise issues, attention, procedures, methods and objectives of this agency. They have not challenged the way their authorities are appointed, the procedures, the methods, the objectives of the NAKVIS. This amendment to the law does not in any way change, the procedures, methods and objectives remain exactly the same as they have been before, and completely independent of anyone. There were many words in this assembly about autonomy. But let's see if the change in the world of NAKVIS has anything to do with the autonomy of universities. Yeah, it has to do with university autonomy if we take the university sphere, along with NAKVIS as one unit that no one can say anything about. Then yes, but the autonomy of universities, ladies and gentlemen, has four attributes, four sets of characteristics. Organizationally, this means how universities choose to manage, how they set up colleges, how they set up, how they establish, say, businesses and similar things; financial autonomy, how they allocate the budget they receive, how financing is, how many years in advance funding is known and so on; human autonomy, how they recruit employees, how they manage human resources, what wage policy they have and so on. And of course academic autonomy, what they teach, how much they teach, how to choose the number of students, what the entry criteria apply to these students. None of these things are mentioned by the amendment of this law, except that we are increasing human resources autonomy in terms of greater flexibility in determining a direct pedagogical obligation. Mr. Bevk mentioned Samsung, compared it to Iskro. While this has nothing to do with this law, the difference is that Samsung grew in some capitalist, free market economy, and Iskra lived in some post-socialist, non-free economy, and the difference is probably due to this too. I very much agree with Mrs Dimitrivska's debate on democracy, regarding the fact that democracy requires a patient dialogue, a dialogue on facts, a dialogue on the real problems on the table, but in these debates we have here, the majority of the debates refer to the proposal of this law and the majority about everything that is pleasing or disliked about higher education, public officials' blogs and the like. At the beginning of Mr Jakić's debate, I must say, I was a little frightened. In fact, it's been heard somehow in the sense of a threat that I'm squeezing the branch that I'm sitting on. In fact, I'm still a petty employee at Ljubljana University, and I hope I can't understand your threat in any way as if your client were trying to influence this university, how they would feel about me as a physical or private person. I have nothing to do with teaching, not teaching, not academic, not related to any private higher education institution. Even when we are talking about private higher education institutions, it should be very clear that the private higher education institution is also the University of Novi Gorica and is the founder of Nova Gorica. Many of these organisations, which you are trying to name as pejoratially private, are in fact set up by local communities because the local community also wants higher education organisations in its field. For the end of the brief discussion of this world of NAKVIS, which, I will say, is the crucial point of the conflict where the sphere is afraid that it will lose its ability to self-governance, where the sphere is afraid to lose its ability to control itself, that you are the choice of supervisors. All the opposition speakers are talking about the government appointing and selecting these 11 representatives according to its political measure, as we are generally told. I believe that you have read this proposal of the law before us, and if you read it, then you would see that this is not the case. Those members are 11. The law makes it very clear that one must be appointed on a proposal for a Rector's Conference, one must be proposed on a union proposal, one must be proposed on a proposal from higher education institutions, two must be proposed on a proposal from students, we are now talking with students to propose a dictatorship where they will propose all relevant student organisations or student saints of two people, of whom the government will not be able to say anything, and one representative proposed by the economy. In short, if the Rector's Conference, the Union, higher education institutions, students and the economy are on their own, each of them will decide on one candidate, then the government will have an impact on the appointment of five of the 11 members of the NAKVIS Council; and these five will come at the proposal of higher education organisations, universities. It seems to me that we are establishing a balance between one another and another, but it is true, but most are no longer called by those who need to be controlled.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u89	Replica, Mr. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, President. I'd like to respond to those two inaccuracies or the deceptions that the minister was talking about. Of course, when I was talking about branching and sawing, I was speaking in a parable, I was talking about sitting on a private tree and watching the sound of public wood, but I wasn't talking about autonomy, and the university is autonomous, and your role at the University of Ljubljana is whatever it is. For such an autonomous university, in which politics will not be able to interfere, I fought in the 1980s, and you break this autonomy with all available resources or more precisely by reducing their financial resources. That was my point, one of the points is why you're starting the autonomy of education. As for the other story. It's not exactly a blog, but it's a blog or a column by the director of the higher education department in your ministry, and I assume that this is the right highest figure within the hierarchy that is employed in the field of higher education. Given that you have a large ministry, I am talking about Mr Rončević, who also has a private interest. If I am not mistaken, he is a lecturer at one of these private schools — co-founder, pardon, I was warned, one of these private universities or colleges, which received funds from the Ministry at the time he also became director of the Directorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u91	There's another replica, mag. Majda Potter, then I will give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for noticing me. But you know, putting Harvard on the Shanghai scale isn't about whether it's a private or a public university, but it's about the quality of the lecturers who are there. However, quality is often due to funds or is linked to funds allocated to that institution. What I am reading to you and your guidance is that with the financial exhaustion of Slovenian universities, you will cut the roots for the quality growth of public universities. It is not far from the truth that you are establishing parallel higher education infrastructure in which more resources will be involved. There's nothing else to discuss, but that's it. Quality is not linked to whether it is a public or private institution, and there is also a tradition to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. First of all, about the finances. Perfectly misleading is that some of the public’s funds flow to private ones. On the basis of the budget rebalancing, we have dealt exactly with all higher education institutions, with the same ratio of concession or to the same decimal point, between public and licensed private institutions. This is how I strongly reject this observation, and I expect that it will stop talking about it. It is also about that call which was published in early April when Mr Rončevič arrived at this Directorate. This is purely misleading: the invitation was called by the previous government, the commission was appointed by the previous government, the Commission assessed things before we even joined the ministry, and the results were appropriate for who actually applied for these invitations. With regard to the blogging of the director of the Directorate, Mr Rončević, I will not comment here. I understand this blog is talking about the creation of client infrastructure, not about the creation of public infrastructure. Finally, Mr Jakič, I look forward to an apology for sitting on any private school, or college, or any similar branch. None of this just holds up and you won't tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u95	Replica mags. A waste, then a replica of Mr. Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u96	Mr Minister, at the end of August, the adopted regulation on the financing of a doctoral study detracts from you, although the resolution of a doctoral study on independent higher education institutions does not include you, you have granted funding for doctoral studies past the resolution by regulation. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u97	Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I don't understand the Minister – there was a movie called Una metaphor. When I say you're sitting on a branch and you're squeezing it, it's a metaphor. If you don't understand the metaphor I'm trying to prove to you that you are nevertheless the minister of the government who serves the public interest. And that's what I'm talking about! About the public interest! As a member of the National Assembly, however, to a graduate teacher, by the way, this is a relationship that you create for the benefit of a private, public, incomprehensible and goes against public interest. Public interest is the promotion of a good, quality, public school from kindergarten to university. At this point, of course, I was talking about your actions as minister – and I have every right to think about it – going in the direction of extending the private sector more than the public sector. I have nothing against private education! I have nothing against private – on the contrary, I think it is right! But if it is private, then let it try to finance itself from private capital, not to fund almost 100% of it from public funds. That's what I'm talking about! And when you speak, what is the situation — why not change the situation? Why don't you, as minister, come to the National Assembly with a change in which you prove what you're saying? You're saying something, but in practice you're doing something else!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u99	Procedural mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since we apologize a lot from yesterday to today, we ask a lot of apologies. Mr Minister, on Monday evening – or unfortunately we were alone with my client colleagues, not interested in yours – we were talking about reorganisation of secondary schools. In the National Assembly, you've been told a lie! It's a lie that the mayor of Kranj supports this. What's worse, you wanted to put me on a lie. You trust your director more than you trust me. Then I'll give you a magnetogram. So now I'm asking you to publicly apologize for saying I'm not telling the truth, and I put you on the line. The line in the tape says, "I don't know what anyone's ever said, but I trust and trust my director more than you." I have proved to you that this is not true. So, please, it wasn't a metaphor, as my colleague used to say, it was a fact. And if we've been dealing with excuses for two days now, maybe without a connection, but I didn't start it, it's right, Mr. Secretary, to show and tell how, when the Minister is wrong, telling the truth, not telling the lie, shows it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u101	It is interesting how the sudden procedural proposal for apologies became acceptable. Too bad Mr. Möderndorfer isn't here to comment on that. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I'm saying, it's a shame that your leader of the parliamentary group didn't speak again about the same issue that was raised yesterday when someone tried to protect their personal integrity, because a lie was made at the expense of personal integrity. In this case, it's just a statement you don't believe. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u102	Mrs Bratušek, I apologize if I have hurt you more than you have, by saying that I believe my director. Excuse me. Otherwise, you misused a procedural proposal to do so. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u103	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you can't Parliament or debate in this way, but only when you have the floor. At least we'll stick to that minimum in the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u104	However, as far as the facts are concerned, I will forward to you a document proving that my Director is also right about the matter in question. I believe you have a magnetogram; I also believe that opinions on this can vary at different times. Now, if I'm going to see Mr. Jakich. Of course, I understand metaphors very well. I'm sitting on a chair, not a branch. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] But I'm not sitting in any chair on any branch of any private establishment. You can't tell me that. You can't, there's no facts, there's no data. I don't remember ever having, I'll say, pedagogical obligations on these institutions and so on. But you talked about public interest, and of course – yes, we must all be interested in public interest here! The public interest is that young people in Slovenia have the best possible study available. It's a public interest. And of course, this best study can be offered by different providers. Some of these tenderers are public in the sense that the founder of the State, others of these tenderers are private in the sense that the founder of the municipality, and others are private in the sense that the founder is, after all, the owner and so on, a private establishment. Each of these three organizations, of these three types, can provide quality content for young people, Slovenian students or schoolchildren. For some of these, if they are of sufficient quality, the State recognises the concession, which means that students are allowed free entry or free education in addition to all the other costs which students naturally have with this study. Some, however, are not and are completely private and are financed entirely and solely from tuition. And I repeat: we are not taking any steps to favour those others, private, who have concessions, against those who are public, who are the founder of the state and who are state-owned. We have not taken any steps in this direction. However, we did not take advantage of this crisis, which was a proposal, which was the wish of some to cut, to burn down everything that is private both in the field of primary, secondary and also in the field of higher education. The relationship between the public and the private remains the same as it was under, if I say so, your government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u105	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor. After him, Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u106	Mr President, Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u107	I warn everyone – I apologize, Mr Misič – I warn everyone that when we do not have a word, we do not speak and we do not yell at each other. Please, let's all stick to this. Here you go, Mr. Misich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u108	President, thank you again. Dear Minister! Speaking of apologies, Minister, one day you will have to apologize to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for all your actions. The clock is ticking, and you're in charge. You can either sit in a chair or you can sit on a branch. The proposal for a new law on higher education brings confusion and confusion to the other confusion of the higher education system. It enhances political influence and thus severely interferes with the autonomy and independence of higher education. The composition of the membership of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education will be decided by the Government or by a better stated policy and no longer by the profession. So those who are most called for quality in higher education are deprived of the possibility of a professional impact on quality in higher education, which is, to put it mildly, sad. In too many cases, Slovenian policy has been able to divide the opinion of the profession by dividing experts into politically appropriate and politically inappropriate or less appropriate, depending on every political option in power, which in the international space only diminishes the reputation and increases the vulnerability of the common and only Slovenia, which, without synergy between the political, economic and academic spheres, does not have a future, respected Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to confess something personal to you today, because it is very connected to knowledge and education. I'm a self-giver, a child of illiterate parents, a sailor, a craftsman, and an entrepreneur. On July 24, I turned 46, and all this time I was, and I'm still hungry for the knowledge that I've always been able to access in this country for free. That is why I am so much more aware of the importance of access to knowledge for everyone, regardless of status and material status. Because of my unselfish and socially beneficial activities today, at the will of the people, I am a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which bears responsibility to the State and to all citizens and citizens. Therefore, I am very concerned that we are facing the greatest threat to our future in Slovenia today; and this is the poverty of mind and mind. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to see you play with the knowledge that is our most important capital at the time of the crisis. Knowledge is a holy ruler and not money, money is just one of many products of knowledge. We have not come into the crisis because of lack of money, but because of lack of knowledge. The consequences of ignorance are all past and present. The Slovenian lay and professional public already have a lot to say about the names of the actors of this government, which are leading key sources and policies of education, science, culture and sport. And I can only add to that: amen.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u109	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. After him, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. In my debate, I too will touch both parts. As you said, the first part – a concrete amendment to the law, proposed changes to the law, and then some of my thoughts about higher education in our country. When we talk about the proposed changes, I cannot help feeling that when it comes to the design and setting up of NAKVIS, it is not an opportunity that the government is taking advantage of and also a proposal for changes where it could implement its political ambitions in this regard. I simply cannot shake off this feeling, because in the end all the associations that will propose members will then be re-examined by the government and then placed by those who are indisputably such who can represent the development of higher education in this institution. This seems to me to be an intervention in the autonomy of higher education and, of course, an intervention in the autonomy of higher education mainly due to the rebalancing, then due to the ZUJF and mainly due to the planned budget for 2013 and 2014. These are the things on which we could justify reducing the autonomy of higher education in our country. In this part of higher education, when it comes to private and state institutions, it is the same to all that knowledge is a value that is very important for the development of our country, is a value that is expected to be available to everyone; to those who have thick wallets, and to those who also have cheaper wallets. The whole process of the development of higher education goes in this direction to reduce funds and in some way to prevent quality development and transfer of knowledge to younger generations. I fear that things will continue in such a long way that we will come to the point where learning and learning will only be worthwhile; so it will only be possible for those who will have rich parents, for those who will not be able to do so, but somehow it will not be possible. These are things we anticipate, things we're afraid of. Perhaps in this part, which does not specifically concern the amendment of this legislation, I can express my thoughts. The other thing that really bothers me, and probably not just me, is that if you look at the lists at the Employment Institute, then you can find out that from day to day there are more graduates who are not employees who can't get a job, they are looking for work, not in our country where it's completely illusory, they are looking for work in other countries as well. So, outflows, brain drains to other countries are a major damage to our country. You know how much a diplomat costs, you know how much effort and money is put into it, and then you go somewhere else. The problem is probably that higher education programmes, whether public or private, are not adapted to what the economy needs. So, the deficit professions exist, but the programmes are not adapted in such a way as to encourage the deficit professions that have been employable in the economy, but this is one very difficult thing that is changing very slowly. Let's get it over with. Changes are needed, of course they are needed, and continuous monitoring of the development of higher education is also necessary. It is also important that these programmes, or those programmes, which are better for the economy, are better able to adapt to private schools, those whose establishment has also been forced by individual local communities. Well, they certainly have a little more credit for getting graduates to work, but in order to avoid these trends, in order to prevent the increase in the number of unemployed graduates, there is certainly something that needs to be done immediately to make things better. Finally, let me turn to those who resent the public debate that has taken place in this room at the expense of all the proposed changes. This debate has shown that, in the area of higher education in our country, everything is not fine. That there's a fear that things are going to get worse. Therefore, the revolt of all the debaters who came from higher education institutions was as it was. Let me finish. Knowledge, development, innovation are probably one of the main weddings and guarantees that our country will be better off developing an economy, giving the economy a degree of competitiveness. Therefore, any change in legislation in higher education needs to be addressed with a high degree of subtlety and also listen to public debates, listen to those coming from higher education institutions, and then round it all up into a whole or content that will be acceptable to all. Positive Slovenia has already announced that we do not currently support such a proposal. Of course, we will follow things forward and we will support those proposals that will be better for the development of higher education in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u111	Mrs. Matthew Pučnik, for her mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Everyone has so far consistently appealed to some excuses, and I would also take this moment and apologize to our minister for the rude conduct of some of our opposition Members. We're already used to this, I'm afraid, but I believe you don't have to listen to all this. Then let me get to the debate. We have a new law on higher education ahead of us. Recently, it has aroused spirits throughout Slovenia, throughout the general public, but somehow I feel that it is completely unjustifiable and completely unjustified. In fact, as a Member, I ask myself, as a parent, as a mother of three children, for whom I want to study in one of the Slovenian universities in the future, what I expect from our higher education system. I expect our colleges to educate young graduates who, with their skills and knowledge, will be employed in our labour market immediately after graduation. Is that really how it is with us? Unfortunately, we find that it's not. Here I can refer to a previous speaker who said that we have an enormous number of young unemployed people, that there are several thousand young graduates among them. In the last month alone, more than 500 young graduates have applied for a new job at the Employment Institute, and I believe that there is a master and a doctor of science among them. Part of the blame can be attributed to the overall poor economic situation and the crisis, partly due to our inflexible and very demanding labour market; and much responsibility for this, I think, is also borne by our higher education system. In fact, I personally believe that we have just too many students in Slovenia. As a result of this enormous enrolment, colleges have become at least in the first few years an extended period of secondary education. We are chronically lacking in professions such as welders, millers, carpenters, warehousekeepers, even chefs and waiters. But because this problem actually starts in high schools that break down, even high school and four-year-old economic schools, maybe health schools, under an enormous number of enrolled students, our vocational high schools remain half-empty; I'm not saying that everything, but the vast majority. And then all those who graduate from four-year high schools are enrolled in colleges, but only one third of them in due course actually finish. To further deepen the problem; only 5 or 6% are those students who complete science and technology education. Last time on the committee, a good month ago, I listened to a gentleman's debate coming from employers, and what I have just said is also confirmed in a practical case. In fact, their company has issued a call for a staff member, for an IT officer and for an engineer. And you know what the results were? More than a hundred applications were made to the position of staff, a little less than twenty for the city of computer science and no applications to the place of machineryer. I think this case speaks eloquently for itself. I am not saying that we have a bad school system; on the contrary, we have a good higher education system but could be even better. And that's our job, our joint mission, to try and do that. There's been a lot of talk about funding lately. I am aware that we are living in very difficult times, that money is chronically lacking in all areas, including education, but such a time requires those in leading positions to find themselves creative and still run their institutions well. I expect that university rectors will be able to find internal reserves to increase their market activity, this is a practice throughout the developed world, that they will draw on European funds to the greatest extent and that, if necessary, they will reduce administrations. This is expected from directors, directors of public institutions. The economy is very much talking about crisis managers about crisis management, but I don't know why we always act like such rules should not apply to the public sector. Last week in the public debate, we listened to many revelations, both by trade unions, by student organisations, also by faculty employees, and today about the pogrom of public education, about the destruction of public good, we are also hearing from the opposition. I will say this: that the opposition already rejects everything that comes from the government or ministries has become a practice. I also somehow understand the unions that they are loud to say yes because they justify their existence, justify large union salaries and all those amounts that people pay to trade unions. I also understand the employees there, at these universities and colleges, because they're afraid for their jobs, that's understandable. But somehow I can't understand students here. I don't understand what they're up against, what they're up against, and why they're so loudly protesting, but when it's all being done together to raise the quality of our education system. The very positive changes are promising. If I were a student again, I'd want to, and I want to be a mother. Just the day we had a public debate, an article was published in Finance – let me just say that I do not like to summarize the daily newspaper because I have great problems with what I believe and what I do not believe, but still. This article came from under the peresa of man, but it comes from academic waters, and in this article it wrote down what anomalies and corruption and exhaustions occur in some higher education institutions. He spoke of 300,000 euros for research projects whose product should be two books, and these books never saw the light of the world. The article says about 600 000 euros for research procedures and money has never come to these procedures; it talks about some colleges that have departments with one student alone in the background of the entire pedagogical drive. And I think if there's at least a third of what's written there, then I'd expect students to raise their voices. Because against such exhaustion, however, such anomalies should be countered and advocated that this is not the case. In fact, there are thousands of Euros that are destined for their study. This novel touches on only four changes: the areas of accreditation without which studies will not be possible, the change of the NAKVIS world, which will become a non-political, independent supervisory and regulatory body, will be made up of some European countries, Austria, Sweden, Norway – something like this. I am very surprised here because we Slovenians like to compare and like to follow the Northern European countries, the Nordic countries, at least as far as the study and the educational system are concerned, but obviously their system is not good enough here. Apparently, there are other interests back here. This change also brings free hands to the rectors in order to be able to burden their employees more or less at their own discretion, and last but not least a very important transnationalisation of the Slovenian higher education system. I say very important because we are part of Europe and we have to open up to Europe, but not put up new barriers. Because only through intensive internationalisation will our university centres actually become and will be comparable to other Europeans, including the world's education centres. I repeat, our higher education system is not bad, but I wish it were even better. That's why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I apologize in the opening if he offends anyone; this is not the purpose of my debate today. The purpose of my debate is to add my contribution as one of the 90 Members to the improvement of the Higher Education Act. The law on higher education is an important law and I am pleased to see that it is adopted on a regular basis because everyone adds a personal note. Let me say that I am also aware that higher education is an important area. I myself have completed the bulk of my schooling at work, so we can imagine that a person must put in a little more effort and time. I graduated from the Faculty of Engineering as an undergraduate at work, and I also completed my postgraduate studies at the Faculty of Economics and Business. It is rare for anyone in this Chamber to commend the debate or position of his fellow Member or colleague. I must express my enthusiasm for the implementation of Mrs Mateja Pučnik. I mean, systematically, accurately, and I think that there is a great deal of credibility. Actually, it's not just a flat-rate thing, and it's not like it's good or bad, without facts. The worst mistake of the past was the separate treatment of social subsystems, namely economic, social, pension, health, education and so on. Unfortunately, we did not understand or realize that all of these subsystems are highly interdependent, intervention or change in any subsystem automatically causes anomalies in others, as it is essential that the interventions are planned, coordinated and, of course, so imagined. The most obvious example of the lack of knowledge or awareness of the interdependence of subsystems is the strengthening of the public sector, which we have been doing over the years. System makers that allow for excessive expansion and the enrichment of the public sector are not thinking about the consequences that public sector regulation will have on other subsystems, in particular on the economic subsystem. Let me give you some facts. From 2004 to 2011, the number of graduates increased from 11 000 608 to 13 000 380 or 15.26%, the number of Masters from thousands of 096 to 726 also due to the introduction of the Bologna System of Studies and, of course, the number of Doctors of Science from 355 to 523 during this period. So the number of masters increased by 57% and the number of doctors by 47%. A colleague has already mentioned a major problem in the employment of these people. It would be interesting to find out how much of the people who are actually in school are doing this work. And, of course, education must have the ultimate goal of doing a certain job. Anyway, I think it's a little bit weird again. We are dealing with the academic sphere, with higher education teachers, professors, how we cannot – assuming that they are viewed, smart, educated people – align our position with them and remarry a law that would have at least a two-thirds majority. I expect that, in the second reading, these views will draw closer, that comments will be taken into account, and that, however, the law will be adopted by a relatively large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Perhaps in the introduction I would simply reject a few observations at the expense of the opposition, in particular on behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to say that every law, including what we are dealing with today, we look at it from a substantive perspective, and we also make comments at the substantive level, and we do not reject any proposal just because we are supposed to be the opposition and because we should simply reject all the government's proposals. In particular, I do not accept these observations, even on the basis of yesterday's event, because the opposition law, the Public Finance Balance Act amending Article 143 or amending Article 143, was rejected, and the opposition's proposal was significantly more appropriate than the government's proposal to put into the procedure for the National Assembly. But you have assessed that the opposition's proposal is inappropriate just for the sake of the opposition's submission. With regard to the law that we are considering today, I would like to draw particular attention to this issue, which is always present when this government is actually shaping solutions. All solutions are actually linked to the coalition contract. And let us make this clear: Is the coalition treaty over the constitution, is the coalition treaty over the laws, and is the coalition treaty over the resolutions adopted by the National Assembly? Indeed, this law, adopted today and touched on by higher education, is not in line with the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme. Why can the Government, why can the Ministry and specifically the Minister responsible for higher education, afford disrespect for the act adopted in the National Assembly? This is a key issue when we talk about how we view the leadership of the State by the Social Democrats and how you view the leadership of the country as a world and only a respected coalition treaty, not a legal order. So respect, the rule of law and human rights is one of those issues which, in our view, must be at least crucial to the democratic leadership of each country. If I look only at the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, we can find that the Government is in breach of the very basic provision of this resolution by this law. In fact, "knowledge is public good," says this resolution, "high education is public responsibility. The fundamental role of higher education in society is primarily to strengthen and empower citizens for personal development, career and active citizenship, as well as for the spiritual, social, artistic and cultural development of the community. Therefore, higher education and associated scientific research are placed at the heart of the development ambitions of the Republic of Slovenia. Higher education is a priority for the Republic of Slovenia, especially during the current difficult period of the global economic crisis." We have this in the resolution. This law does not, of course, follow the basis set out in the resolution. In fact, when we look at the funding of higher education institutions alone, you have reduced funding for this area of education by means of the Public Finance Balance Act without any analysis. Something similar occurs or is recorded in the balance sheet when we also look at the resources allocated to the national quality agency or quality agency in higher education. Here, too, you have reduced the balance from €4.4 million to a total of €1 million, and $3 million virtually at the expense of those European funds that have been designed to improve the quality of higher education. As we look at how you see the governance of the country and also the management of institutions and the design of higher education programmes, we have already made clear in these days that only what the Government decides is sacred to you. What is state-owned, what is public, is literally blasphemous to you, this proves the law on holding and how to manage this property – only the Government is the one who can manage it. You don't even need to take nationalisation and take the insurance shares they have at the Triglav Insurance and transfer it to the country. So, nothing is really sacred to you if you have a goal in front of your eyes. And what is your goal with the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education? Earlier, the minister mentioned to us if we did not know how to read or warned us that we did not know how to read the laws, and he said: “Look, there are six of them whose proposals are not supposed to come from the governments, and they will only be named. Look, Minister, in the current law, the Council of the Agency consists of eleven members, three members appointed by the Rector's Conference. You say the Rector's Conference should not name itself, but at the proposal of the Rector's Conference, the Government appoints at least one. Now, let's imagine if there are three proposals, the Rector's Conference will not decide who will be a member, but from those three governments will decide who will be in the world of the national agency. If there are three proposals, the Government will decide which of these three will be in this Council of Higher Education Quality Monitoring Agencies. I ask you why it is not acceptable for you to allow a direct rector conference, unions and all others who propose their representatives, including all higher education organisations, to propose or appoint their own representatives in this world, as the current Higher Education Act allows. Why does the government have to name them? For a simple reason, because the Government will make selection according to political criteria, not according to professional criteria, which they will also have to meet, but political affiliation, the definition of what you will call it will be important. And here's the flawed logic of managing higher education as well. If we also look at how you view how we will ensure that the cavemen will be, I don't know, builders — whatever. The colleague mentioned earlier her children who would like to be employed as soon as possible; but when we look at the labour legislation you are coordinating with the unions and you have already invested it in the National Assembly, the individual will no longer be able to make a decision, regardless of the education he will receive. No! No! You're going to have to give him a law on working relationships, you're going to have to accept this job, regardless of your education, regardless of your status. You're introducing some kind of garden forced labor. This is the difference between the Social Democrats and the proposals that we are making and between the proposals that you are making because you are all directly committed to a policy decision. But it is in education that politics really has nothing to look for or should be removed to the fullest extent, distanced so that we can maintain the autonomy of education, the accessibility of all to education. When you talk about opening doors to foreign educational institutions in Slovenia, we also support the Social Democrats, but look, at the moment you are reducing funds to our public schools, to higher education organizations, so you are hoarding them in your quality, opening doors to other foreign universities coming to Slovenia. This is a national betrayal – for my understanding. I would understand if you were to strengthen our school system, invest money in science and then drop other universities into Slovenia, so that this competitiveness is truly crystallized at the level of knowledge, so that the political public school system is exhausted in Slovenia and you are sending a foreign to Slovenia, which is then supposed to be all-powerful. Excuse me, this is a national betrayal for me. That's exactly what this law allows, and that's why I can't support it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u117	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u118	I would like to echo very briefly the two good substantive points that Mr Weber has put forward. First of all, with regard to this fear of the outsider. This fear is common, it was also before foreign traders, foreign mobile operators, before everyone else. Look, we are part of the European Union, and we have to do this. We've committed ourselves to sticking to these game rules in this club. With regard to the six that the Government does not want to influence or will not influence, the names will come and the government will only sign the document in which they will be named. You've been stressing all along, but what if the Rector's Conference proposes three, and the government will choose. One of these three will certainly be chosen. That's one. Under two. Of course, the Rector's Conference can only propose one, the other proposed by the Rector's Conference, and instead of a four-rector conference, one of the members proposes one of the three colleges, and one of the third proposes a third. In short, for these six which the Government will not influence, a minimum agreement between the unions, the Rector's Conference, students and so on is needed to suggest exactly the six that they want to see in there. All others, in order to make your theory more valid, will be proposed by someone else – they will still be in play so that of the five where the government will really have a choice, so that it will balance, I will say, the professional or presence of different professions in the world of NAKVIS. Indeed, read this paragraph to the end, with at least one member to be appointed on the proposal of this, the third. They can only propose one and he'll be sitting right there. That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath. Mr. Weber, if we listened to the Minister correctly, he said at first, I only have a brief replica. And then he explained it to you. But there's no replica to the replica. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you. See, Minister, I would also like your answer: Why do you think that directly the Rector's Conference, representative associations of higher education institutions, cannot directly appoint their representatives to the world? Why does the government have to take this role? When you explain – yes, the government will propose one, but there can be several proposals. At that time, this situation will come to the fore, so that political belonging will be a decisive criterion. You still couldn't explain that to me. But I'm still asking you for an answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u121	Mr. Weber, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u122	The rector conference, please? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u123	Replica, not a request for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u124	Yes, because I am replicating to explain to me, because apparently the minister did not understand me well, on this issue, why it is not more appropriate for the Rector's Conference to, say, directly appoint its representative and have to be appointed by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u125	I think the minister's already explained that. We will give the floor to Mr. Joseph Horvath. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] When the minister wants it, he'll answer the question. Would you like to do it now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u126	So this is exactly the person the Rector's Conference is going to propose. The Rector's Conference, this is a conference of four universities; when I meet the Rector's Conference, I meet with four rectors. These four rectors will decide for one person. This person will be sitting in the world of NAKVIS, and will have to sit in this world. The same applies to representative unions, the same applies to independent higher education institutions. Something similar with the amendment will improve the text that will still apply to students, and the same will apply to the Chambers. Six out of eleven governments won't be affected, and your whole theory of how we're going to politically choose people falls.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u127	Mr. Weber, if you don't mind, we'd move on this time. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with you that we're somehow simply trying to intercept the opposition, which is very right. When I say respectable colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, I mean, with a word, truly and honestly. Some predecessors used a dictionary in their discussions, which does not actually belong to this house, and I am disappointed, just as I was disappointed in yesterday's debate. And this, according to some high school logic, shows that our education system is just not that ideal. We came into a crisis because of knowledge or ignorance, someone said it earlier. I don't agree with that. We have fallen into the crisis because of the neglect of human values. This is not just what the Council of Values is talking about, it is what the whole world is talking about today. I am grateful to my colleague, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, who is not here right now to point out some of the anomalies that are taking place at our higher education institutions, at universities. I also receive incredibly large letters, information that so-called fictitious contracts are happening, where money can be channelled through some pacifist lines at universities, but unfortunately it is not meant for students. When I look at and study this law and then I set up and listen to debates and oppositions that are defiantly opposed to the opposition, it sometimes seems to me that we have not yet understood that we are already a member of the European Union since 1 May 2004. If we had to grow up with the European Union long ago, it would be as if some people simply did not want to respect the European order, as if some simply did not want to listen and ignore the European Commission's warning and so on, but that is not essential now. What I'm trying to say here is this. I come from Pomurje as well as from Koroška, where 12 thousand people are currently employed in neighbouring Austria. These are mostly day migrants, and we like to compare ourselves with our neighbours or European countries many times, and I think that is also the case. I have to say that my arrangement in neighbouring Austria is relatively close, relatively nice. Let me freshen up once again the fact that the Austrians in this Parliament have only adopted their spar programme at two sessions this year. They did not reach into 39 laws, they reached into 92 laws; they did not save half a billion euros, they saved 26 billion euros – this is what they plan to do by 2016. Yet, despite all of this, I find that they remain as some kind of bright example in the field of the regulation of the higher education sphere. How's the whole thing going down there? I'll read it if you don't mind. By law on quality assurance in higher education in March this year, Austria set up a single agency instead of three institutions with competences in the field of quality education; the Agency for Quality Assurance and Accreditation in Austria. This is a parallel to our NAKVIS or our National Quality Agency in higher education. You may not believe it, the members of the board of agencies are appointed by the competent federal minister, in our case this would be Dr. Giga Turk, the dot. Isn't our solution better when the government appoints members of the NAKVIS? And no one goes to Austria to protest. On the contrary! Our youth goes there to study. Why? Because it doesn't matter where some pianist is graduated. The pianist says, yes, he graduated, studied with one of our famous pianists, and I'm not doing any commercials. Besides, I am proud to be a university-graduate physicist of the University of Ljubljana, because the University of Ljubljana had and has the best physics in the world – perhaps I am a bit biased, but here is a lot of truth. And what's going on with us? With us it happens that a couple of gentlemen sit together, write some college program, get thirsty, get students enrolled there, get graduates, get people with diplomas who aren't employed. Then it's just a step towards the depression of a young graduate. The New Slovenia delegation group visited, I think, five regions at that time. We visit our Slovenian economists in particular. We don't ask if they're close to us, if they're more on the left-hand side, if they're sympathetic to this coalition. We just don't care. We care about that and ask them what we as a legislator can do to make their company even more successful. First of all, I have to say that we have fantastic companies in Slovenia, but it's not just Hydra, it's a lot more. And when they say – colleague Majda Potrata, give it to me, because you can be a very polite lady, be this time, and please do not deconcentrate me, because this is not the case. [[...]] When we ask them how pleased they are with our staff coming from higher education institutions, they say they are not satisfied and that they are very difficult to get, and then it is the task of this economic operator to raise himself. On the one hand, the State invested in this cadre, on the other hand, if the company wants to prosper, then the company must only, probably that amount that the State invested in the student, must probably multiply it with some factor. Maybe we're part of another local debate. See, Mr Gregor Golobič, former Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, simply ignored Pomurje as regards higher education programmes. We have received the first higher education programme in Pomurje during the ministry of Dr. Jureta Zupan, Management in agri-food – something that is called. This is a minister who was ridiculed by many at the time, who, like the current minister, somehow simply wanted to show that it would be good for Slovenia and also for people to become more involved in science and science, but this Mr. Golobič simply ignored the European Centre Maribor, which in the Pomurje area implements higher education programmes – he did not leave them in his office at all. That's why we have students there who are self-paid. Therefore, as regards health care, physical therapy and so on, we have here a map of Slovenia: Eastern Slovenia is painted red, which means that here students pay their own education, Western – and here the country helps. Total discrimination! I hope that this will take place in this mandate [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u129	Mag. Majda Potrat wanted a procedural question. Before you ask him, I would like to ask you which part or article of the Rules of Procedure you wish to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u130	Madam Vice President! I have asked for a procedural question and I will formulate it for you, or a proposal, and do not discriminate against me. Treat me as you do Members and Members, and you who are the only ones interpreting the Rules of Procedure know that you must give me the word. My procedural proposal, however, concerns the request of Mr Horvath, who demanded that some kind of language review should be carried out on the expression of Members and Members. In the last two days, the apology has been extended. Some also take the right to apologize on behalf of others, as if they were your adult — but that is another problem, and let the person who has done so attribute it to himself. Now let me say that I expect from you and from all the others who are in charge of the sessions that you do not declare yourselves the head of the National Assembly as a language judge. In the country of Slovenia, it does not judge politics on language issues. In Lithuania and Latvia, even the law is adopted by the Government. Not in Slovenia. And as long as the Member allows himself to say "spar program" – that bothers me because it is not a Slovenian word – and that does not bother him, I will not protest because the language reveals every man. But someone cannot demand that we now begin to discuss whether the word "subordination" is bad or not. According to someone's qualifications, and that's a matter worth discussing, but some behavior can be vile, could be deceit or something. And now I don't know what it's gonna be like. It's either the Ministry, the mega ministry, or the government, that's what's driving me around using the word "demonise" and "histery". If you go to the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language or to the spelling, which is normative, there is no qualification. Therefore, Mr Horvath, you want the leadership of the National Assembly to become a language judgment. I object to this, and my procedural proposal is that we should not accidentally give in to temptation and adopt a task that does not apply to you under any rule of procedure. But as for the political position, it's everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you so much for your advice on how to run a session. I will try to take into account, in all cases the same. Now he's got the word "magic." Borut Ambrožich. After him, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Allow me to start by presenting some information, which I believe we have received from all Members, but have not yet been mentioned today and are linked to young and educational landscapes in Slovenia. The European Commission's Representation in Slovenia has provided us with data from the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions of Eurofund, which presents or presents the results of a survey on young people who are neither employed nor involved in education or training. According to data, the economic costs for society due to the non-inclusion of these groups are estimated at around € 153 billion. It is also reported that only 33.6% of young people were employed in 2011, the lowest recorded value so far. It is also interesting to understand that in the European Union, in which, of course, as has already been said today, since 2004, the Republic of Slovenia, 7.5 million young people from 15 to 24 years of age and 6.5 million young people from 25 to 29 years of age who are neither employed nor involved in education nor even in training. I therefore believe that national policies – also read Slovenian – should focus primarily on the long-term and sustainable integration of young people with appropriate legislation affecting education. I am also disturbed by the question that somehow depended on the exclusion of the profession from NAKVIS, which further raises doubts, not only for some of us, but also for some of us, in the correctness of adopting the Amendments and Supplements Act to Higher Education. To my question at the previous meeting, whether the Government or the Ministry has prepared a scenario in the event of the bankruptcy of Slovenian universities, you answered me in no way, so "no". Of course, the question of a more rhetorical nature was expected, because, as we know, every university is truly autonomous and independent in this regard, and this autonomy is stopped when we reach out to the balance sheet as a legislative body. I agree that appropriate measures, including legislative measures, should be introduced for the purpose of schooling with a view to having the final result of the job and not just "per se" education. Finally, allow me to point out once again, as also mentioned by esteemed colleague Jožef Horvat, about unequal distributions in our country, when he mentioned the European Centre of Maribor and the Premur region, which is already considered to be a deprived area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act is part of the academic sphere, which the opposition in this House has clearly used and used to declare an obsessive state in a particular area, literally for warfare in an extremely important area of development of each country, this is in the area of higher education. The vehementness and literally militarity of the attacks that the Minister has suffered when proposing this law, which has in fact responded to the duty of our membership in the European Union in the field of higher education. This response, this militancy, has surprised me. She surprised me both by the opposition and also by the work of the academic sphere at the public presentation of opinions on this law. I think it was a rather organized project operation. I'm surprised that part of the academic sphere was largely led into such waters. I felt that this part of the academic sphere was unaware or did not want to be aware that the country was facing a major crisis, severe difficulties and that the Minister, whatever he was already in a given area, was obliged to act in terms and with the aim of overcoming the crisis, rationalisation in this area as well. In my opinion, many speakers have made an uncritical reference to the dedication of academic work and have mentioned an outrageous attack on the quality of universities, autonomy and the destruction of the public sector in higher education at the expense of the private. I have noticed many times that talking about an unheard-of attack on autonomy and cataclysmic talk about an attack on the quality of higher education by academics is in a completely inverse proportion to their enrollment in COBISS, a citation index. These often do not have any reference in the citation index. This is also warned by my colleagues, who are today university professors. Of course, this leads to the strong fighting defense of the Fevds, the Fevds that exist. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't hide and deny that there are a lot of rotten things within our universities. Mateja Pučnik, a colleague, mentioned in a financial article the call and call of the author on the serious irregularities related to hundreds of thousands of misused, unintended budget money, and I have yet to see from the academic sphere the answer to this. If it is, she said, if one third is true, and I say, if 10% of it is true, it is a big problem for these institutions, these institutions, and this academic sphere. This intense fear is not in fact a fear that the university will be wrong after a different choice of members of the accreditation agency, NAKVIS, but is a fear of losing the feuds. The Fevdi don't produce quality, let's face it, let's face it. I'm not reading, I can't document the lack of references to academic people who are now, say, in this agency. If we also look at the rectors, we must admit that this sphere at this time and, in fact, mostly in the time of independent Slovenia, is controlled by quality people with references, from the left. Otherwise it would not be among the rectors, I remember at least two ministers of the former left-wing governments, state secretaries, etc. It's nothing wrong. Of course, there are interests in this connection that are being pursued and that are also leading to anomalies within the current universities. In order to prevent improvements in the system, including accreditation, some fellow members of the opposition have used low funds in both the academic sphere and here. I'm following the minister, which was the first time a minister, and I have to say that an intellectual is a couple of excellencies. At least I thought there'd be no readings here. But the last time I saw him in Youth, he was a columnist, a university professor, apparently had no sense of language and art, although for my notions he was excellent at articulating, and he can spell everything out. In that case, I believe it's personal frustration, but these personal frustrations have been used in a low way. The Minister declares that he is also the Minister of Culture, an ignorant, illiterate person with regard to culture. These are total nonsensions, shameful for someone who comes from the academic sphere, who probably needs to know better than I know his formats, but still unscrupulously writes it. For this reason, I must say that what has been pointed out here by my fellow Member, what is the greatest danger to our future, the zeal of mind and reason, I agree. I just notice that the zeal of mind and mind is part of the last years, because without this zeal, I don't think this country should happen what happened. If we had come literally among the Balkan poor and that some sphere of Slovenian economists who had declared no knowledge, we would have had no idea what institutions for economic research, but their projects that they were implementing had brought Slovenia to the brink of collapse. I think that the changes introduced by this law are going in the direction that this poverty of mind and mind, if we go this way, will be eliminated at least in the academic sphere. As I have already said, in my opinion, when I was in the economy for twenty years in important positions, but I was also a registered researcher, I know some of these relations, especially with regard to access to funds for researching a number of things wrong within the university. I believe that this year it has been said that they will have heads of institutions, rectors, directors, dean, more opportunities and more competences to cut off a cancer wound themselves and thus contribute both to the state and its own institution. And I want to say something else, I think it's completely uncritical, it's manipulated here a hundred an hour, as we say, by the Ministry or the Ministry and this government extending private education to the public. I believe that it is clear that the Minister's denials will not come to today's media, and that these attacks will continue because this is part of the project. This is part of a political project that will not be abandoned by the left and the opposition. You will act according to the principle of the Objective devotes the means. The aim is to prevent anything that could lead this country out of the mud we are in in in the medium term. The aim in all areas is to cover up the anomalies, malversions and irregularities that have occurred in recent years, so that, in sayings, our responsibilities and prosecutions will be protected and that we, the right political option, will become those who control space, political and factual in Slovenia at any cost. The price doesn't seem to worry you, because it's going to be paradise, but the voters in this country have a lot of money, cheap money, a lot of stolen money. You're obviously counting on this stolen money to control this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u135	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! If I ignore the individual implementation of Members or Members of Parliament, I could say that today the debate is at a level and I welcome such a way of working that the law is dealt with on a regular basis. Of course, this law, or supplementation, and changes to the law were also attended by emergency meetings and discussions. And all of this has shown that in Slovenia there are enough minds and enough people who want education and education for the good. Today we are talking about higher education and university education. If we want to avoid ideological guidance and political intervention, then I would suggest that the ministry follow national programmes. And not just this one, all the other ministers and all the other ministries. If we were to follow national programmes, we would not be so concerned today with policy interfering in this area, because the policy would then be obliged to draw up such laws to follow these programmes. If I specifically touch on these changes in the law, then I could say that it is necessary to change the law in the work that talks about transnational education. Of course, we agree with that. In Positive Slovenia we are not afraid of competition, healthy competition, good competition. Of course, the criteria for granting accreditation must be such that they are not doubtful. Yeah, that's right. The change is unreasonable and unclear in this part, so I would suggest that the Minister devote more energy to what you said must be changed by law. That's what needs to be done. The Constitutional Court's decision of April 2011, which explicitly requires funding arrangements with a specific law, should also be followed. You didn't do it here. Okay, we haven't seen him before, and we don't know when he's gonna be. You know, we're talking now about what we see and what we can talk about. That would be what is absolutely necessary. However, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, there have been many proposals, and there has been a public presentation of opinions. How many of these opinions are you or will you take into account? Then we can talk about some communication, some cooperation, some academic level and so on. We heard people who didn't hurt people who didn't threaten, but they warned us at the academic level. I hope there are so many people at the Ministry, at least the minister, that he understands this academic language, that things like those that we've been used to. That the street was moving and then they had to act and think about following those public warnings. At the very public presentation or at the very urgent session, I saw the extraordinary arrogance of your subordinate, Director of the Higher Education Directorate. At the time of the discussion, the member of NAKVIS took a lunch out of his bag or pocket, and he had a good time during the debate, laughing, and Mrs Škrnjar was kind of giving him a break. This is extremely rude and disrespectful to people. Speaking of employees, and not just that, at the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Culture. I have already mentioned this so that we can avoid these ideological and perhaps political issues, these political and ideological doubts, if we follow the national programme. Look, you and Zuyph put universities and higher education institutions in a corner. Today, it has been said that presidents, rectors, should deal more with management so that they could seek funds elsewhere. 50% of the university's funds are received on the market. Of these, out of all the funds they receive, 20% collected on the Slovenian market and 10% in Europe, we are talking about programmes. One third is the author's fees and the undertaking of contracts concluded by the Rectors or the Presidents in order to reduce this deficit which the State does not grant them. That's how I really don't see a lot of maneuvers here. But in order to weaken the programs, I think, Minister, that you don't want them to be cheaper because they have worse programs. That young people who graduate from school are not employed, I am sure that, like you, you know it's not school or university. It is true, however, that the programmes that universities are preparing cannot be made overnight, that it takes some process to have so many and so many well-established professors and appropriate conditions to do so. This cannot be done as quickly as any Member may. If the Ministry or you, Mr Minister, could make one cut today, I would suggest that you add to this amendment or only two, and this is a transnational assembly and perhaps even a funding arrangement, as you said, it will be by special law. There is no need to lose words about the NAQVIS and the composition of the NAKVIS and the fact that the members are elected by the Ministry, as confirmed by the Government. If you're saying there's no politics here, I can't believe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you for, in fact, a good, constructive debate. I must object to this novel being in any difficulty with the National Higher Education Programme. Those who objected in this hall did not state what this would be in opposition. However, in order to be able to take budgetary measures in a different direction from those in the NPVS which are going towards increased funding, it is acceptable. With regard to internationalisation, let me explain. The existing arrangements are such that the NAKVIS is tasked with verifying that the programme coming from is adequately accredited in the country from which it comes. This is the regime that European countries have in relation to transnational education. As a rule, foreign programmes need not be accredited in the home country. I have to let you down about the funding. This change is too severe, too much debate, too much interference in the existing system of funding for higher education, so that we can quickly make it available in time. However, we are doing this intensively because we too do not want to have a discussion every year about how much money, for whom, for what programmes and so on. Universities, after all, deserve to have a financial perspective, clearly, for a few years in advance. You asked about the impact of the public debate. If you compare the very first draft that we had and what is now on the table and is the result of discussions, public debates, debates that have taken place informally in the public, and our discussions with the rectors, with the students and so on, then let's say these points are in the sense that one of these should be appointed here, it must be the one proposed by the rector conference that the union proposes must be the one proposed by the independent higher education institutions. This is the result of this debate. I hope that we will also agree with the Student Organisation for the Amendment, who will appoint those two student representatives to the government for the title: "Look, these two, you have no choice." This too will be the result of a debate still under way. We are also open to proposals on how to regulate Article 63 in a different way, i.e. a direct pedagogical obligation to be somewhat flexible and at the same time workers are protected from some savage and excessive burdens. We are also open to this debate, and you know that there is room for amendments as well. I'm supposed to say that if I had a sandwich here right now, I don't know if I'd get beat up. But it is true that I am here alone and that I must be in the hall and that this could be more justifiable than in the said case. So I'll give him a heads-up on this. I promise you that. There have been several other discussions. Let me give them a brief comment. Mr Misic says that we have come into a crisis because of lack of knowledge. This is a great distrust of the Slovenian higher education area, a great distrust of the Slovenian scientific institute. I don't agree with that. Knowledge was, we just didn't listen to a lot of knowledge, we didn't respect it. Mr Zanoškar, unfortunately he is not here, had a good debate on the relationship between education and the labour market. I fear that the second time the country tries – politics – you will tell the government – what to manage, correct, influence the admission policy so that again someone will understand it as an intervention in the autonomy of higher education and universities. And maybe even there will be a much more significant interference with autonomy than what we're doing right now, which doesn't affect autonomy at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm from Nova Gorica. In my two mandates, we have earmarked more than 12 million euros from the municipal budget to co-finance the University of Novogorje, FUDŠ, the European Faculty of Law and so on. Instead of "make-up" the city, we gave money for education. So you will know that it means a great deal to me that we want the population to be educated, that they also have the opportunity to be educated close to home, because it is also happening in this situation today that students can only be from large centres, and the periphery will be much smaller due to the cost of living and so on. I think in a way that is public, that special care needs to be taken. That's our priority. That public interest is extremely important, because today we feel that everything that is public, we want to get on our knees somehow: public health, public education, kindergartens and so on. These are trends that will be difficult to avoid if we are not at least here in Parliament very firm. I would like to point out that there is no country in Europe in these times of crisis that would also be so gravely affected by the financing of education, higher education, research and the like. Even though we know they're reserves. There's reserves everywhere. There's a lot of reserves in our company. But as I've heard here today, which professor, which scientist is good, who doesn't, how to remove half of them and so on, I don't think these are real debates. There was also much to be said about work and teaching obligations. Public statements have also been such as to harm these workers and workers, experts. Look, I've never been in education and education myself for 19 years, but I've never been able to convince, as we say, the real sector, that a teacher also works, that a teacher works, that the obligation of 20, 22 hours is the same as the work obligation of a builder and someone else. There's no way. But if we're going to beat ourselves up on these shots and prove that they're not working, that they're not effective, and so on, then I don't see a solution. Today, too, in this document and elsewhere, we see that, in the case of work and teaching obligations, the rectors are allowed to adapt to the acute situation. So the rector will determine how he will burden someone to compensate for what the state will give him. However, if he does not adapt to this, what I read in the newspapers – here is also a question, Mr Minister. I hear that it will be punished by such a director of the institution, the principal of the school or whatever we call it with 10,000 euros or the loss of his job if he does not comply with this fiscal rule in his institution. Who else is going to do this? Tell me that. Who laid down such a penalty, on the basis of which law, where are the criteria for such punishment? Or is it another fear of this population of workers and workers in our country, where everything is still very present, everything sucks, no perspective anywhere? We must all try, including the policy, to achieve these European standards. That's why I think it's important how the quality of the university or college is assessed. Here this profession must be very neutral, without politics, without helping anyone under the table. I think that is why the resolution, which has already been mentioned, clearly states that NAKVIS will become a member of the reference international organisations that bring together national quality agencies in higher education. If the new NAKVIS is proposed by law, it will not, in fact, meet more important requirements, but of course independence, the inability to influence a third party or higher education institutions, the ministry and so on. I would like to comment on a discussion by a colleague on the other side of the hall – we have too many students, professional guidance is not right, we don't get a cook, we don't get no production jobs. Look, in the industry in the West, a machine engineer works in a factory, but productivity is not as Balkan as we have in Slovenia in many companies, but it is different. And personal income is such that with his profession and his knowledge, this company is also willing to pay him. But when we talk about our people going to Austria, look what they're doing there, how hard they have to do. I'm not underestimating any work, but what's the added value, and why can't we use it at home? Because we've also lost construction companies and a lot more. All these legislative changes must be very careful and have only this in mind: our concern is for public education, public education, public health and so on. That's our priority. If we have private colleges, private education, private health, it is just a complementary activity that must not destroy the public because it will suck modest resources from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u142	I may be naive to be here to discuss substantive matters. Mr. Brultz, actually there are two things I'd like to answer. I am very pleased with your discussions on the University of New York. Also, as I understand it, the support the congregation has given to this institution. I would like you to perhaps explain to Mrs Potter once that the University of New York is also important. In all these shots, in all this hatred, the resistance to private higher education must be realized that, of course, in these regulations, the New York University is a private university. These are private ones who are not public but are the founder of a congregation or someone else. There's something else. These are not now some, mostly some high school barons who would spend their pockets on this public money. The University of Novogorija is also in this quota when I said that the relationship between public and private has not changed. You started a debate on these penalties for heads of public institutions. This is the subject of the law on the implementation of the budget, which I believe will come to this assembly in a short time, and probably also on our committee on Friday, and I suggest we talk about it then.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u143	Mrs. Potter, you don't have a chance to replicate this time. He mentioned you in connection with Mr. Brultz and nothing else. You didn't understand anything at all. I'm sorry, you don't get a word for the replica this time. It's Mr. Mitja Mershol's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u144	Chairman, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I will discuss transnational higher education, but I cannot help but say that, on the basis of what I have heard in this temple today, about language and poetry, I myself have somehow inspired myself with a poetic. NAKVIS gets a new fris and the Government of Painter. But I'm really going to high-level transnational education. We have certainly had problems in this area in the past. Not to mention any individual, maybe what happened with the IRC and Nottingham Trent University. I support the initiative to strengthen this transnational higher education and to provide new additional dimensions. In particular, because I am very much in favour of having an additional dimension and value in our higher education system in the context of our so-called extended childhood or "prolonged childhood", which somehow connects students just before the end of their diploma with entrepreneurs and creates some very good cohesion and ties to the future of an individual and society as such in the economic and scientific field. However, what we have heard in the introductory presentations by the parliamentary groups on strengthening transnational higher education cannot, by no means, be just a business, it cannot be just a competitiveness, nor can it be a problem in some kind of Article 33.c. The whole issue of this transnational higher education is also very important to our identity, our Slovenian language. I'm not going to go into detail about how there might actually be misunderstandings in the use of foreign language in teaching our students, etc. in the framework of Erasmus projects and this thing. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the care of the language should be somehow preventively covered in the novel and more appropriate in the new law. In doing so, I think that the European Commission's warning should somehow not and cannot push us into something like this, now I'm back to the parables and metaphors, the rapid construction of a boat, which then we don't know how fast we're going to let it go. It was also mentioned today in the introduction that this is a transnational higher education in the interests of students. I deeply agree with this, but then I cannot understand how student representative Mitja Urbanc comes to this public disclosure and says: 'The proposaler claims that Slovenia has received a reminder from the European Commission, I quote, 'in terms of transnational education arrangements'. That is true, but there is no indication that the area should be settled in the way that this amendment of the law provides. Such a way is harmful for Slovenian higher education and especially for students who would study there. The proposed arrangement opens up Slovenia's space to foreign institutions without specific control over quality. And let us not blind ourselves that only quality higher education institutions from abroad will come to Slovenia, but we will also get those who have a higher education system slightly lower than ours and are much lower in quality. The students there will also receive a charter that will not be publicly recognised in Slovenia. Of course, they will be able to apply for recognition of this Charter and there is no guarantee that they will actually receive it. Studying at a foreign institution in Slovenia for Slovenian students means studying without the rights they belong to and, of course, paying tuition. Students here, however, we fear that logic will be passed on to our institutions, so we are also protesting." End of quote by the student representative. At the end, I would also like to ask the Minister a question. I would like to know what is with this national strategy for the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education. The National Higher Education Programme adopted a measure establishing a national strategy for the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education by 2013 at the latest. The explanation states that the strategy will be formulated due to the importance of internationalising higher education and our priority focus on it. The strategy will define more precisely the elements of the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education, priority geographical regions and areas of cooperation with them, and the basic measures and mechanisms for achieving the objectives set. It will also be the starting point for funding international cooperation agreements and programmes and international mobility, provided from budgetary resources. It will be prepared by the Ministry, your Ministry, and accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What about this strategy, which would be very convenient for us to have at our fingertips in the amendment of this law that you are proposing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. You want a word. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u146	Maybe it's best if I answer the phone right away. There has been no alternative way of meeting the requirements of the European Union. In the European Union, there is, as I would call it, demystification of higher education. It's a service that educates you. Probably the most valuable service anyone can provide, and the market for these services must not have any obstacles that would specifically protect local institutions. We have already responded to these findings of the Student Organisation, which you quoted, in fact, at that debate that they had on Monday, if I recall correctly, here. As far as internationalization is concerned, I'd like to tell you that we're working on things. The call for the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education from the European Social Funds is under way to enable higher education institutions that are applying to bring to Slovenia for a certain period of time, for one semester or for several years, a foreign teacher, a lecturer who participates in the higher education process and does not bear the burden of the domestic budget, there is no competition on that programme, on that department where it will come, so I am sure that these people will be very well received. An important step towards the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education is something that my co-workers are preparing in the Directorates for Culture, which is a resolution on Slovenian language, which is likely to bring about some changes in this regard. There is likely to be a very lively debate on these changes here too. None of this is directly related to this law, which is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! What is wrong with this law has already been said by all the interested and unionists and students and teachers and universities and all together. This is said to be against everyone – except the ministry, government and positions. In fact, in this case is public or private higher education or is it quality higher education? This is an accessible higher education and quality higher education. That should actually go for it. Discussions on who else will be able to study and who will not have to have a national consensus when we talked about having too many people who have completed higher education, not getting a job at home and going abroad and getting a job there. There should be a real debate here, which education, what education, and what to do to ensure that the work of graduates and diplomats is provided. I fully agree with the reorganisation, if we can finally say so with this reorganisation, our graduates will be given a job. But if we can't say it, then we haven't done anything or done very little. So there are no criteria by which we can assess what will be the results of the changes adopted by the National Assembly This is actually problematic. Of course, it is also a question of how many universities we will have in Slovenia. The answer will probably be that as much as the interest will be, as much as it will be thought it must be here. Yeah, I mean, it could be the answer. My question is how many universities will we finance with public funds. Then how will we determine this criterion and where will all these universities be? There's talk of 11, 9. There's a lot going on. We witnessed a meeting in Kranj, there will be a meeting in Celje every time, where meetings will be held, where new universities will be discussed. I think that the university is certainly not judging you and that in this case these programmes and higher education studies will have the basis in the resolution and in what we have agreed in Slovenia. Today, some of us have talked about young people doing free of charge, that they are fictitious enrollments. The point is that there is a lot to be done in the labour market. And this is actually my question, and in some ways also a message of what the National Assembly should do. Efforts should be made to ensure that graduates and graduates are mainly given a job. It is worrying that we are talking about the shortage of cooks, workers, waiters and all that that means that all those who want and are capable of higher education or continuing their studies will not be able to do so. That's bad. We come to the fact that there will be selection, that there will be no more study, that there will be no education. And that is not what I would raise my voice to, and I absolutely agree, that anyone who is capable of doing so should be educated and education only helps us. But that our universities are good, it seems that our personnel outside are quite well-employable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Attack, here you go. Mr. Meh, please turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! The fact is that the amendment of the amendment to the Law on Higher Education indicates a slight start to the reform in the field of education and education. The direct law will not have a financial impact on the functioning of higher education. This has somehow succeeded Zujfu, but he will certainly intervene structurally in the higher education area, which is also right. Why? It is known that in education, science has intervened due to the financial crisis and the available money, which the country has become less and less available. However, the current amendment to the law would probably not have occurred if the educational system in Slovenia had not been affected. It is true that the government adopted the Regulation on public co-financing of higher education institutions and resources for education and research in August by EUR 20 million. By the way, by 2016 around 600 study programmes and all higher education institutions that were established will have to be accredited. For the 2011/2012 school year, the relationship between sociologists and naturalists 11 and 1 was mentioned in the media. It was also reported that 42% of all graduates of the same generation of sociologists and only 3.9% of naturalists were. Seven percent of these are graduated from human science, which is below the European average of 10%. It is clear to all that we do not have an approximate labour market and an enabling entrepreneurial environment that could actually employ such an educated workforce. Diplomats, which does not mean that all intellectuals are in the right sense of the word, so control over the establishment is also so important, it has to be understood, they are unemployable. The number of graduates in the Employment Service tripled in seven, eight years. If it's not over, I don't have the exact data. The mass of people who have no place to serve with their knowledge is enormous. In Slovenia too, we should educate those who will be able to work as soon as possible. It is true that there are some programmes that are not market-oriented or burdensome, how capital-efficient they will be, because they focus more on their expertise, which is also something that needs to be understood. If we look at the global world, which has made capitalism even more unpredictable, I understand that this is not in their primary competence, but I do not understand why we should not pay more attention to the market policy of universities. There are times when everyone should behave entrepreneurship, so we also need to know how to communicate marketly, whether we like it or not. This is certainly important for a more effective educational model. We hear evidence that this law reduces or even completely destroys the autonomy of the university. Did we really know how to act autonomously until now? The absolute lack of flexibility and interest that our educational space would indeed radically change to bring new, quality knowledge, new, unknown programs to Slovenia and thus contribute little to the greater employability of highly educated people. In addition, it should be noted that in higher education and science a 10 million-dollar hole has been created. And all we can ask is, where did this money go? Probably through the educational lobby in some private pockets. Don't take it all literally, I'm just thinking out loud. If we focus on the naked text of the law, we can understand that the Government will be able to appoint several qualified members of the Council with a change in the composition of the NAKVIS, which is also a good practice abroad. In Sweden, for example, all members are appointed by the government. Denmark is also a country where the Prime Minister of an independent organisation financed by the Ministry of Education is appointed by the Government. NAXIS, however, is the only state agency with a specific status of independence of the budgetary consumer and it is important that it remains independent of policy stakeholders. In the Netherlands, too, most agencies are truly independent. Here comes the importance and maturity of every government, which is the one that decides how much politics will enter and if it will. Slovenian space – so far we have seen how it has been – is very small and there can be a conflict of interest, which has occurred too often in our past, so monitoring the functioning of the commission is of great importance. In order to further threaten the independence of NAKVIS, speaking on behalf of and unjustifiablely. And if it worked so well today and without mistakes, we would not be dealing with the problems of the public validity of diplomas. Taking into account the European Commission's reminder that the existing system for the implementation of transnational education constitutes a restriction on the freedom to set up educational institutions and prevents the burden of a foreign higher education provider, the Ministry complements Article 33c of the Act. The European Commission has therefore reminded us that Slovenia is obliged to regulate this area due to freedoms in the European Union and also to facilitate the movement of people. And that's what this change of law makes possible. To claim that the entry of foreign educational institutions without proper supervision poses a threat to quality is entirely unfounded. By amending the resolution, we would have the opportunity to open new programmes, domestic and foreign, possibly, at least I hope, to meet the needs of the market. Selection would be more than necessary as it would be necessary to include technologically oriented professions in our premises. Although this would be very necessary, it is also necessary to develop social science, programmes, including those we do not know and do not have the possibility of being integrated into our educational system. However, what has been observed in recent years is a number of programmes that employ graduates, but they are usually employed in lower jobs due to a large number of staff. My thinking on our education strategy is that we lack programs to continue some professional or craftsmanship, such as a senior chef and the like. Education really isn't a market commodity, but business, society, if you want, is becoming one around us. And this is a global process, which is not the fault of this government, not of the previous government, but we must be smart enough to keep pace with time. But the change in this Slovenia, as we can see for more time, we are extremely afraid. And we need to know how to adjust knowledge. It is true that competition does not in itself contribute to greater quality, but it certainly forces human knowledge, reason, to develop further with new methods of knowledge, including technology. Therefore, a wide variety of varied space will certainly offer more creative, creative people. And if we may take on a lease, young people like to travel anyway, so foreign labour with international knowledge certainly deserves a greater opportunity. It seems to me that there is so much noise about this change in the novelty of the law that some would like to remain untouchable. After the OECD, we need to limit the number of teachers to a thousand citizens. And later, I'll read one piece that confirms or confirms why this rationalization has to happen. There's no record of how many students are enrolled. It is known that a third of students do not complete their studies. There are guesses that out of 100,000 students, 10 to 30 thousand students enrolled are fictitious. They represent the country's missed investment in millions of dollars. A single record of enrolment in universities and colleges, because some programs are for students who aren't actually students, but they don't exist. The former government has already promised this; now this promise should be taken over by this government if we are to remedy this problematic area ourselves. Article 23 of the last Higher Education Act is also being amended, since in the past the university did not take into account accreditation deadlines. However, this exacerbation took place solely because of the responsibility of universities for timely accreditation. By amending Article 63 of the Law, the responsible person of the higher education institution shall be allowed to determine, in addition to forms of direct pedagogical obligations, the number of hours of the basic direct pedagogical obligation. It is important to know that all recognised universities limit the teaching work of their professors to six hours a week; otherwise, the professor usually fills his schedule with research or artistic activity, seminars, exams, administrative work, etc. For six hours of pedagogical obligations, it is now also changing in this law. According to the Ministry, the novelty in the Slovenian space will thus offer greater pedagogical flexibility and therefore also the responsibility of Rectors of Higher Education Teachers and Fellow Workers, but they are a fictitiously defined direct pedagogical obligation as well as the number of hours of basic direct pedagogical obligation. So why flexibility and autonomy? Because those professors who worked too hard will be able to do less, and vice versa. Although I must admit that in the public debate the representatives of the professors were quite upset and also convincing, I have little knowledge and information here to judge. Reform in education is urgently needed. However, all segments require the most thorough examination and strategy. There is too little link between students and the economy. The money should be invested in models of integration and paid traineeships, which will also be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Youth in the future. I am convinced that the long-term key is practical training at scientific institutes as well, and that the relationship is a student-business-professor-faculty necessity. A student without practical knowledge, without experience, will never get a job, even if it corresponds to the job available. Therefore, we must ensure that a student or a diplomat comes to the labour market ready, of course under the condition of his activity. All of this is our common social problem, all of us. No government will manage the money allocated to universities and other educational institutions, so I cannot agree with the declaration that the autonomy of public higher education will decline. Whom and how we will educate is the domain of cohesion and harmony, greater synergies between universities and politics. To reduce the number of sociologists, to increase the number of humanists and naturalists, to preserve those healthy cores that are even of social importance. It is necessary to set criteria for fictitious enrolment, student performance, their achievements in certain programmes and the priorities of Slovenian visibility in the international area and to preserve those educational cores that are good and effective, taking into account capital and non-questioning aspects. Let me say that the Ministry is also preparing instruments aimed at improving the quality and internationalisation of the Slovenian higher education area, so that fear of disrupting higher education is unjustifiable in several segments. Every government wants to keep good, healthy sails. Promoting an impatient dialogue is what degrades us all the time of independent Slovenia. Responsible without ethos are that article of the chain that should never have been kept secret. And I would like the politicians to begin to speak more complementaryly about this responsibility. Allow me to read another passage from the article of Trstenjak, which is dedicated to the given, imposed, full and empty words, warm and cold words. This is from an empty and full word. "But let's start with the everyday language speech and its words. How many empty words are spoken every day. A man who knows what a living word is, who can appreciate a human logo as humanizing a spirit in a body shell, seems to be causing some sort of sacrament, sacrament, abuse, and debasing of something holy there, to the waste of human negligence. I don't mean immoral words here. We'll talk about it in particular. Here I have only empty words in front of me, although they are not ugly words, without true content, meaning of life and logical meaning. It is bad if people say empty words when they are obliged to give weighty, powerful, content full, rich, refreshing, comforting, and guiding words. This warning applies, for example, to a doctor who does not know how to give a lifesaving word at the time of the patient’s bed and goes through it with an empty word. We hear similar revelations all too often at the expense of teachers and teachers and soul shepherds, who should act with the power and wisdom of the word, but are, unfortunately, repeatedly empty and poor." Well, here's the rationalization. "The weak accumulators of God's word are, they don't know where to recharge it and enrich it all the time. Walking to the hot water of the spirit, full of words, we no longer know how to walk properly, since technology allows us many surrogates in covered tanks with concrete rings and impenetrable water pipes, where no one sees it from exactly where it comes from. Where does the word that comes out of it come from the fullness of wisdom and power? Undoubtedly, the source of wisdom that instills man’s word must be sought in the depths of silence. In silence and incline to meditation, the mystery of the pronunciation of the human word is. When everything was submerged into deep silence, God’s word came, says the evangelist about the birth of a word that settled between us. You do not need to view this as theological truth of the Gospel, if you cannot follow it in faith in God’s territory, it is enough to accept this phrase merely as an expression of the human wisdom of the writer of 1900 years ago. It expresses what we face in the minds of many thinkers, poets, and spirit giants. A fresh resuscitating stream of spirit is a constant exchange of silence with the word. And vice versa. Words with silence. The fullness of the word comes from the depths of silence; the deep souls keep much silent, but the shallows speak more. The secret of conversation is in silence." Now, allow me a brief paragraph about the warm and cold word and what I want to say with it. "We must continue in this direction. Without Eros, no human would ever say a word, whether emotionally connected or not. Eros is here as a representative of all emotional experience, perhaps Freud would have developed the expression libido here, but it is certainly not an expression, but an emotional or emotional half of human mental life, contrary to Logos. Without an emotional, emotional urge, a person would not have any spring to lift him up or heal him to any action, nor to speak. I'd keep my mouth shut forever." And if I can be provocative here. We argue about this paradox and contradiction here a number of times. If I read again, "Without emotional, it seems that an emotional impulse would not have had any spring to lift or heal him to any action, nor to speak. I'd keep my mouth shut forever. The fullness of the word comes from the depths of silence; the deep souls keep much silent, but the shallows speak more. The secret of conversation is in silence." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Now we have quite a few out-of-offices, so it's only three more debaters. First among them is Mrs. Tamara Vonta, then Mag. Majda Potrat and Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u152	"I drank you and didn't drink love like a breathtaking..." I'm sorry. We have never claimed that change is not necessary, Minister. We are talking about the content of these changes and how they are adopted. We have not said that Europe does not warn us that we have not received a warning, it warns us in many areas. But it's true that it doesn't tell us how we're going to handle this. Whether it's dialogue or not. I think they're more like dialogue. It is also true that Europe has already addressed some reminders, such as pesticides, railways, waste and the like. Today we have received something new, we have been referred to the Court for the Electricity Directive and the Natural Gas Directive. Ten thousand 287 euros a day will be paid for. In the analysis of the public presentation that we have heard the most about today, the word "life and death" was misused at least four times. Or let's say it's gonna be better to hear, in the poetic language, "eros tanatos." It came from the mouth of one of the representatives of the art academy, and I hope that we can assess this syntagma, at least the sociologists, who we have flooded the Kranjland and it appears to have plunged into the sea of evil. Moreover, according to one of the panellists, the quality decline is expected to have been heard more than once, started 10 years ago. And that's what someone from the party who's been in the government all this time said. And apparently they didn't do anything. Which means they're co-responsible and they can't be prosecutors. As for the data provided by Mr Grims, I won't, I don't really like these things too much, I'm not a very technical type, I don't even know how to count well, I admit what you've already found, Minister, and some others on Twitter. However, I can say that according to this graph, which you have also seen, by the number of tertiary education institutions per million people at the top, we are in third place in Europe. Mr. Grimes spoke differently. It might make sense, given that this meeting has also led to at least the correct information being learned, if it has already cited it. There were indeed two of the economists at the public presentation, one which we know from previous presentations, namely Mr from TPV, and this is indeed a good project. This is really a good project from the New City, which is connected, we know which company, and I welcome it. But where are the other projects from all these years? Now we can't start here from scratch, but now it's all wrong, and there are no projects. Some projects are, I don't know why they were gone. And again, I'm asking those of you who have been sitting here for years why you didn't think of more of these projects. But there was another very interesting thing today, I think a colleague from Nova Slovenije said, namely the participation of the Faculty of Engineering and the Clinical Center in breast reconstruction. That's really great! This is worth all the admiration, praise and encouragement, including the ministries. Meanwhile, on the other hand, on the other hand, we have all the necessary equipment and mammography space at UKC Maribor, but there is no green light from the ministry, not yours, of course, for health to get the cadre to do it. Therefore, only women from central Slovenia and those from Zasavje can be included in the Dora programme, although health insurance pays everything. And that's another anomaly to play with. If we move on. We've heard several times about the mass of unemployed young people, full of knowledge. That's really worrying, it's really tragic, but it's a stupid responsibility to attribute it to universities. Who's hiring today? How many new jobs do we have? Last time the minister couldn't even answer that. Not you, Minister of Economy. We have a weak economy that doesn't work. Is that right? They need what we've heard, welders, but it has nothing to do with universities again. In short, there was still pudding mixed up on all sides here today, but that's what you should call it. And one and the other. I'm gonna touch something else. It occurred to me that you intend to vaccinate the University of Ljubljana in two parts. The first one is supposed to be a socialist, which is kept within this one, and the second one is supposed to be a natural part within the Institute of Joseph Štefan. And I just want to know if it's true or if it's another duck that's fighting for his life right now in front of Martinov. Finally, I will allow myself to express a little more resentment, which is what you are talking to us, as well as with your colleagues, academics, allow yourself, and more times. It is true that science is progressing in spite of the crisis where money is still allocated to it – it is not Slovenia that we understand each other. They may soon offer us a vaccine against sociology, a seed of evil that unforgivingly cuts through the Shentflorian Valley. I am sure that the largest subscriber of this vaccine would be the current government, and I also understand why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. What we have just heard is a strong neoliberalist model and a view of higher education, where it is the only measure of efficiency and competitiveness. In higher education, there are other criteria. What I miss in these discussions is, not that, Mr Minister, that you will tell my colleague Brulco how to teach me what to do, we do not wash each other's brains in our client, but that we will finally understand that there must be a social consensus on some things in society. The confidence of the Slovenian public in education is high, and at the same time there is a very social sense. The requirement for access to education, public education, is also clear. So do not offer anything that has nothing to do with it, and try to hear it. Why don't I trust some things? Look. You will not be glad to send members away prematurely, but you will re-establish the NAQVIS and name them according to your own standards. Why don't I trust this government? Zincarna Celje, AUKN, the new AUKN, who, according to the SDS, appointed his representative on behalf of the Blue Insurance Company. That's right. One that's at the will of the government. Now I would just like to say that in education, higher education, fictitious entries are a big problem, but fictitious entries with the quality of higher education have nothing to do. They're devouring the funds, but they're being devoured by those who are fictitiously logged into this account. These are individuals, the computer program is designed, the case will be corrected. I hope so. But a social agreement is needed, Mr. Secretary. And what's more [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. And that's the last questioner. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u156	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Today's debate has actually been about many things, but very little about what is the essence of this law. The essence of this law can be summed up in two points. Above all, it is the implementation of the European Union's requirements to open up space in the field of higher education, the free movement of knowledge, that is to say. Surely, such a solution is for the benefit of the State of Slovenia, for the benefit of the whole community and is particularly for the benefit of students. I can't understand how there could have been such a misunderstanding here that some people would object. Competition in any area of social life is the only thing that provides long-term quality that ensures the search for new solutions that opens up new opportunities. This is why competition is positive, even when it comes to the competition of knowledge. Or should I say, especially when it comes to the competition of knowledge. In the light of some debates today, this may sound strange, but it is a fact; a fact known to the whole modern world. The whole modern world is open to knowledge. Countries are trying to open up their space, except in Slovenia. In Slovenia, however, some structures that have apparently found their corner are so strong that the moment you start the competition issue is denied to some in the attic. Whether it is internal competition, the possibility of establishing new higher education institutions, new universities, or external competition when it comes to transnational education. What I believe to be the red thread of this debate is the question of how we can achieve that we will have as many young people as possible who will successfully complete university education, acquire knowledge that will be comparable and useful on the world market, and that at the same time they will have the knowledge and values that this is the greatest asset that no one can take anymore, this knowledge they have, they will know as entrepreneurs, they will market on the world market. Today we are members of the European Union, the space in which we are moving, the space in which we live, is bigger than just the borders of Slovenia. We need to be more aware of this once in Slovenia than we have been before. This is not only a question of the quality of life of those individuals who might gain an education that would go abroad to establish themselves on the world market, it is a question of the quality of life of all of us, because it is certainly the greatest deficit of Slovenia at this time that it has – I say with all its responsibility – a great deal of individuals with exceptional human qualities, with extraordinary abilities, unique abilities that have no comparison anywhere in the world, with unique knowledge, but are not able to market as entrepreneurs for the benefit of themselves and for the benefit of the whole community. In this part, however, we Slovenians are literally handicapped. Therefore, these values, the values of entrepreneurship, should be added at all levels of education, I say, from kindergarten to, if you wish, the final levels of the university. The first time, the first step, to be able to emphasize this more, including in the area of higher education, is to open up the space of competition more. But it's not just our idea, it's not just something that I think should mature in this space, if not in the government and higher education institutions themselves or, if you want, in the academic sphere as a whole. What this tells us is also the European Union, the European Union has already given us a reminder because our space in this area has not been sufficiently open, there has not been sufficient flow of knowledge, there has been no possibility, practical opportunities, realistic, reasonably accessible, that higher education institutions can also enter our space and support the possibility of educating our young people. It is clear, of course, that in such a case there must also be a state institution that is struggling with this. In this case, two methods of control are envisaged, one being the home country, because it is already in the European Union itself, so to speak, first of all, any such institution in the home country, in accordance with the legislation of the home country and with the rules of the European Union, must comply with this requirement for transnational education at all. Then there is still the National Quality Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in higher education, which, in accordance with the provision of the law before us today, is concerned about the implementation of these principles when it comes to the territory of the State of Slovenia. Those who, in this case, will be faced with a perhaps even more responsible decision than before are students alone. They'll have more options, I hope they can take advantage of them. This also means, in some ways, that they will have to gather more information, and here I say that the state will also have to take a step against them, as well as the higher education institutions themselves, universities themselves, to offer them those additional information to decide what is in their actual interest, how to find those solutions, those programs, those professors, those institutions that will optimally enable them to develop their own potential. Each of them, every student, every citizen, every citizen, every citizen is unique, has some quality, it is that each of these institutions should do everything to help or help him find those qualities that make him better, more successful in the territory of the State of Slovenia, in the European Union and in the area of globalisation, is a world as a whole. There is a competition in this market today and that is why it has to be opened, which is why it is not possible to close and say that three universities are enough for Slovenia and we no longer need any competition. Such an approach is fundamentally flawed, but it is also non-European. If we agreed to such an approach, which, unfortunately, many of you have advocated here today, then we would be very quick, not only warned, we have already received a warning from the European Union, but we would also be punished, which is the last step. Then we would pay daily for one medium-class car indemnity due to non-compliance with the decisions of the international community, which we belong to as its equivalent article. I am sure that in this case, those who have spoken today about how to be cautious would be the first to consider it, even to discuss it – perhaps for a few years – would be the first to cry about personal responsibility. For this solution, which is before us, I say it is appropriate. It is in line with the principles of the European Union, it is good. It may be improved if anyone has a proposal, the law will be in second reading, we will have it on the committee, let's see if we can find better solutions together. It is certainly our task, even our obligation to seek and incorporate such solutions into the law. However, if they are not, then please do not oppose a priori such a law simply because it is in the interest of some individuals who are in positions there, because it is necessary to look first at the interests of students, it is necessary to look at the interests of those directly concerned, and it is necessary to look at the national interest. National interest, which means openness in European and global space. Not just by the flow of knowledge! Once again, even after what is at this point – with all responsibility I claim – the biggest Slovenian problem is that entrepreneurship is not valuable to us; that a lot of people, when they finish university, think about how they will retire as soon as possible, as they once thought in socialism, but not how they will market their knowledge, how they will establish themselves as an entrepreneur, how they will do everything for themselves, for their family; gained and achieved the most and at the same time enriched the country as a whole. For every entrepreneur who is successful and stays in Slovenia contributes to common prosperity, this is forgotten. There are only one cases to say, although it is from primary school and not from higher education, I hope that you will not resent me if I mention this example, that they made from the Chamber of Entrepreneurs at my primary school in my home town, that the children were familiar with the principles of entrepreneurship as a game, but that they had led them to make a plan to sell products, etc., and that the work of teachers came to an end whether you were already poisoning them with this capitalism! Good morning, where people live! This is a modern world, these are modern values that are enshrined in our constitution and these values must be respected and adhered to because the whole world works like this! Within these values, we must be as successful as possible in a fair way as possible. This is often forgotten in Slovenia. I'll say it again. What I personally see as a recipe for taking this seriously is a matter of competition. I reject any attempt to shut down Slovenia in any way – art, legislation or any other way – from foreign competition and from domestic competition. At the same time, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that the framework, the fundamental requirements – and that it also remains consistently – is a condition for it to be able to work in the field of higher education. Only those who meet this condition can then participate properly in this game and only those who can obtain accreditation and meet all the other conditions for their work. So much for this job. The next problem we face under this law is the composition of the Agency. Many of you have disputed the right of the Government to appoint an appropriate composition, but only on a proposal from the profession, which is well divided in this law and, I say, fully in line with European standards. But what's interesting is the logic of it. The government is second-guessed, and the department minister is responsible – even personally, if you want, but politically, in full – for the situation in a particular area. And how interesting it is that the responsibility should be fully at stake when it comes to appointments, but it should not even have the opportunity to name, even though it goes to an exclusive – the law knows exactly what this means – the proposal of those directly concerned and also well divided here. I argue that, when it comes to conflict of interest, better, significantly better than the previous ones, where the Rector's Conference had too much power and then, you know, something that was interesting in these debates is starting to come up with the issue of autonomy. This can be worked out on two levels. There have been a lot of debates in the way you often feel when you talk to representatives of higher education institutions about understanding them for many — not all of them to do wrong to anyone, but unfortunately for many. Understanding autonomy is something like that. When it comes to the issue of public interest and public funds, you give money, and from there you have nothing to care about how we spend it and what we do with it. That's our autonomy. I'm sorry, that's not autonomy! It's a completely misinterpretation. The money giver is also responsible for how this money is spent. Autonomy is autonomy in the field of science when it comes to the issue of programmes when it comes to deciding on content, either research programmes or study programmes. That's where the university's autonomy begins and ends. This also makes it difficult to understand why it is so strongly challenged that the law will no longer have a specific number of hours of lectures, but it will be left to the Rectors of Universities. This is the greater autonomy of higher education institutions! What's the logic? If the National Assembly decides about this, we're here today, that's all right, and that's politics. If the government were to decide that, that's all right. Yeah, and that's politics, by the way. But if it's up to the rectors, that's the wrong thing to do. Yeah, that's autonomy, people of God! Then you're going against each other! Now, when it comes to the question of autonomy in determining the number of hours, of course, is the possibility on each rector and responsibility, if you want, but I have the feeling that some are very afraid of this responsibility, to decide on the proportion of this number of hours, either in plus or in minus, depending on the situation so far, and anyone, in accordance with the wishes and needs of their higher education institution, their universities, can do so alone. There is no more democratic way, but there is a greater responsibility here, which I agree with and obviously is the responsibility of some of the problems. I also wanted to respond to some of them – with little humor, no offense – because at the beginning it was very interesting to listen to the following statements, especially from the ranks of the largest government party in the previous term, "how the government submits to subsystems" if I quote, or the opening words of the famous representative, "policy has not elected or elected rectors". Well, you know, there's a little awkward situation here if we look at the real situation in Slovenia. I'll leave out names and surnames, and everyone's very good people, and some of them I understand perfectly, but to see the situation. And you find the woman of the former president of the same party who made such remarks at the university's rector's office. Then you find the former minister of the same party at the head of the second university. At the head of the third university, you find someone who was until the recent president of the city board of one of the other parties to the transition left. Then this is very interesting! If the government submits to the subsystems, I would like to know which one, because apparently the last one who did this was the previous one, is called the Pahor government or the government under the leadership of the SD, because the last such case was exactly from the previous term, they are still slightly older. It's said that maybe the lady who said that had it right. Politics really doesn't like the rector, but it's obviously a policy, it's a policy of the transition left, it's a policy that's been very "wrong" all through the past – Balkan – the rectors and made sure that those who were close to it came to those places. To "pull" in Balkan means to love that there will be no misinterpretation. This is said, when it comes to autonomy, it is necessary to be realistic, it is necessary to know that the very unclear border in Slovenia has been in the past, the border between politics and expertise. From the three cases that I have mentioned, I hope that is clear enough. I can name another one if you want, but I think that's enough. It is therefore a question of how to enable science as a whole, the whole academic sphere, to actually exercise its own autonomy, the autonomy of programmes, the autonomy of research, the autonomy of higher education, autonomy, if you want, of certain accredited higher education programmes. That's where the autonomy of this place begins and ends. But this autonomy must be respected and this autonomy must be respected on all sides. Also by those most invited to implement it. This answer, which is in this law, I say, is fine, is European. Again, I am adding what I have said before, and I am also speaking as the chairman of the committee covering the area of education, including higher education. If anyone has a better solution and arguments for her, please bring her! The marriage will go on, it will be under second treatment, it will be possible to amend it. But if we do not have a better solution, if we do not find a consensus on a solution that is actually better, then please, let us not stop the law that is necessary. It is necessary because it is a matter of implementing European principles because it is a matter of realization of something, which we have already received a reminder from the European Commission, and because it is something that is in the obvious interest of the country, the community as a whole and of course the students and students – the ones most concerned. These interests are those that should prevail, not the interests of individuals who have held individual functions in the past. For the end, let me just stress once again what I ended up with at the beginning. This law is essentially a small change, a small change, which means approximation of the standards, to the values of the European Union, which at the same time means the realization of the interests of the community and the realization of the interests of those directly concerned, this is what students say. The solutions covered here obviously, given the debate so far, will not be possible to reach the full consensus, which I personally regret. I think that the area of higher education is one where the principles of consensus, similar to foreign policy and some other, should be applied as far as possible to the development of the country. But in a given case, it is not possible to achieve this, obviously, because there are also interests in the background; the interests of individuals, the interests of structures that are legitimate. Here I do not deny that it is not legitimate for someone who has just come into a position there to feel good, to earn well – at some university – to do everything to get rid of any competition. The best way to get rid of this is to prevent the adoption of a law that would open the way for competition. That's legitimate, of course. But I'm sorry, but the policy that allows it is irresponsible. For such a policy is against development. It is only development, knowledge development, development if you want, young people, capable people and the development of the country as a whole, that is what must be the criterion in this case, while respecting all other values, including the autonomy of the university or academic sphere, as I have already talked about. These are the values that should be followed. That is why this law is necessary, so not only must it be adopted but it must be adopted as soon as possible! Even so that the complications of accreditation do not result in harmful consequences for individuals, for students and students who have gone to these universities or universities in good faith who are now in difficulty because some things have not been done in time. They must not be the victim of this procedure and therefore this law must be adopted! On the other hand, they cannot be taxpayers and taxpayers who are victims of long-term procedures in order to pay penalties to the European Union, as this would be a real consequence if they continued to delay the adoption of this law. This is said to be the question of what to do most responsibly at a given time. It is most responsible at this time to adopt this law, to enable it to move forward to the next stage of the procedure and then to seek appropriate solutions, in accordance with the values and norms of the European Union to which we are committed. What I ended up with, as it were, the opening part, and I'd like to give it one more time. I just want to say, Mrs Potrata, what makes you so happy to smile, and you will certainly listen to those words once again. That Slovenia needs not only as many educated people as possible, but people who will complete their education successfully – today we know that a huge percentage of them do not complete university education – that is to say that they will actually receive appropriate education and that this education as entrepreneurs will also be able to market in Slovenia's territory, in the European space and in the global space. The achievement of this objective means the realization of prosperity for the whole of Slovenia. And then by achieving this long - term goal, we will only justify our conduct today. Until then, we must take at least this first step – you too, Mrs. Potata!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I also thank all the debaters for their debate. Given that the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I note that there is still a desire for discussion, in accordance with Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm opening the list. Please apply for the discussion within the remaining time. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There are some things I'd like to react to. First of all, I don't care if I'm a magician. Grimes is pretty obvious. I find it unacceptable, however, that it takes away the integrity of professors who may be senators in the Senate of universities and universities and imputes to them what is domestic to politicians, in particular one political option, while in the scientific world they gain a reputation through habilitation and publication. And the lady whom Mr Grims so much likes to talk about is not only a woman of some kind, but a top-notch expert who has become a rector just because of her high professional competence and admiration for a valuable scientific career. So much for that. Now I say to the others. I would like to see the biggest coalition party finally agree on what they want with higher education and with the future of the Slovenian people. Whether we imagine achieving the objectives of the European Union or not. Because it was heard that we had to reduce the number of entries, that we had to have more cooks, tablecloths, I don't know what. Now I don't know how they're gonna decide in families. If they have three children to study, the other one will go as a chef and a third as a shoemaker — or what? I can't explain myself. However, I know that this government says that the economy must only be saved; it is only responsible for removing bureaucratic barriers. And here the problem begins: the absorption capacity of the Slovenian economy and how many jobs with added value and the required education are able to create. Here, unfortunately, the story is not such that you can be pleased with it. This is not pain, responsibility, and responsibility of higher education, but of other departments. At the same time, I say that if we have written down that we want to have 20% of the highly educated population in the active age by 2010, I will say that, after the latest statistical data of the Statistical Office, this is currently 17%. However, we have also set ourselves up until 2020 to enroll half a generation in tertiary education. Now I'm going to tell you some other information from the public presentation. The representative of the Slovenian People's Party, respected Prof. Dr. Umek, felt that 8 000 students and students should be enrolled in the year. Since we have a very open age for registration after the resolution, it is no longer a substitute for 26 years, but it can also open up, I ask you: Who will be the one to determine who will be able to sign in from the population and who will not? And when we talk so much about the competitiveness and internationalisation of Slovenian higher education. Yes, have you ever thought about where all these powerful institutions – 19.5 per million people in Slovenia – will be acquired by students? What are they gonna fight for or what? There is another thing that I am very concerned about, and there are clearly some who do not understand because higher education is a space of science, including a space for creating new knowledge and new knowledge. This is related to national identity and national identity to language. And here things cannot flow as much as they can when dealing in goods and other things. It is very difficult for me to wait for the national language policy programme, how this option will achieve what it called an obstacle to higher education in the coalition contract, and this obstacle is a Slovenian language. I thank Mr Mershol very much for all that he has said about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Grims, there is no replica, because the rest of the time is extended, there is no replica, nor will it be possible to reapply. That's why only two other colleagues have a word. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would not answer, but I was encouraged by the president of the Education Committee. Look, as far as the loss of accreditation is concerned, I'll read it. The sixth paragraph of Article 23 of the Higher Education Act provides that higher education institutions, which have more than 7 years since the finalization of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia's expert opinion on higher education, must submit an application for extension of accreditation by 1 November 2010. However, the seventh paragraph of this Article provides that, irrespective of the time limits for the implementation of the procedure referred to in Article 51r of the Law, the Agency shall carry out the procedures for the extension of accreditation to higher education institutions referred to in the preceding paragraph, i.e. paragraph 6, in accordance with its work plan, but no later than 31 December 2012. That's what happened. These accreditations were submitted until 28. 6. The procedure for the extension of accreditation shall be carried out as planned. There's no fear here. We have all talked about not denying the competition for education in our area. Transnational education: yes, and we could write that down, but more transparent. This is what we said, and the ministry has called for a little more time and listens to all the kind comments and to all those people who have also told in the public debate. I asked the Minister, but he answered me how many comments these eminent experts made were or will be taken into account when this law is further amended. I hope you will take them into account and believe that people who work in education want education well. Look, we just said a few small changes were needed. Yeah, that's the only one that could be. However, it is about as if the car had been taken to the service due to an error on the tyre, and then repair the steering mechanism to drive the car to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u162	This law is probably also appropriate if you write and bear the responsibility that there will be no more 30,000 fictitiously registered, but that only 60,000 will end them. Some of the goals must be, we are changing something that has produced good results today, with something that we do not know what will happen, and we are talking about that one of the reasons is also because 30,000 students are fictitiously enrolled. I'm sorry, there's a reason somewhere else! I think that this brings inequality into our country, because everyone will not be able to study, after what individuals have discussed – Mrs Majda Potrata, I think she has already talked about which of the three children will decide about the cook, who will be the locksmith, and who will continue the study. How are we going to do this? Everyone must have the same right. Also what Mr Grims was talking about: the autonomy of the university should be completely autonomous, the government or the state should give the money but not the decision. It is said that this is exactly what we have been talking about; that it is the influence of government and politics – because government is a political body – and government and politics, precisely on the autonomy of the university! Let's say that again. Those who oppose – we are not against! We're asking. Tell us what the results will be, and we agree — don’t say that! Let's make some comments. We have only said what the professors, union, students and experts have said in this area. That's what we said, and that's what we talked about here today. You say we're yelling. We don’t yell, maybe we’re louder than we could be — we’re talking. And the last. Podla is the one in which the rectors or professors belong, because after unnecessary highly respected experts we may give the bad guys I can tell you how many rectors of one of the universities are members of the SDS. [[...]] I can tell you what this Mr Ranchevich is doing. You want me to tell you whose it is? I can tell you what Lesjak is doing in the cabinet and what Lesjak really did – the founder of the International Faculty of Social and Business Functions in Celje! On all of this then there is a clear direction and a course in which they are going, say, this moment of change, which you are also proposing here. So it seems to me that we could reach consensus if we listened and, say, respond to what we somehow want to say well. And that's because I'm just saying I won't. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Thursday, 25 October, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is in line with the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Fund for the financing of SPORT ORGANISATIONS in the Republic of Slovenia. The Sports Foundation, in agreement with the National Assembly, submitted the text of the amendments and additions to the Regulations on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The text of the amendments and the addition of the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Branku Grims for further presentation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u164	Your Honor! Once again, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which, at its 11th urgent meeting on 3 October 2012, addressed the amendments and additions to the Regulations on the conditions, criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Investment Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 24 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. This time we've dealt with this stuff for the second time. In fact, at the first of the two meetings devoted to the same Regulation or its amendments and additions, the applicant agreed by agreement that the Regulation should be supplemented and fully followed the discussions and comments of the Legal Service of the National Assembly. In short, all those comments made by the PSC in its opinion of 12 September 2012. On the basis of such a harmonised text, a complete consensus was then reached. This is a matter that is urgently addressed. It is a matter of Slovenian sport, its financing, concrete athletes and industry as a whole. For this reason, the Committee agreed with 16 votes in favour and with no objection to the decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to the Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds to the Fund for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, namely the proposal of 20. 9. 2012. You have also received the draft decision in writing and I propose that we adopt it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Sport is one of the rare social areas that combines incompatible areas, which we would often need in politics. This is especially true of national sports and sports events in which individuals or teams proudly represent our country. At that time all Slovenians, regardless of our problems or personal beliefs, are united, united and proud of our athletes and states. Therefore, the long-term and stable financing of Slovenian sport, both recreational and professional, is extremely important for the entire Slovenian society and all its members from the youngest to the oldest. The proposed amendments and additions to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia follow both the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the improvement of the shortcomings encountered in the implementation of the current Regulation. All key sports stakeholders have participated in the development of the proposed amendments to the Rules; from the competent Ministry to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, which means that the amendments to the Rules are fully acceptable to the entire professional public. The key changes thus relate to improving the evaluation process of programmes and to setting out in more detail how to allocate the funds awarded, in particular for sports activities, including, for example, sports education for children, youth and students, as well as the promotion of sports recreation, the programme for the construction of sports facilities, the programme for research and development in sport, and the programmes for sports publishing. In financing the activities of the direct needs of top athletes, the funds increase from 3% to 5% of all funding for sports activities, as we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In addition to winning medals, the evaluation of the more important competitive results for sports industries with larger competitions every two years also changes in the direction that other higher rankings are taken into account. We are also pleased that in the area of the construction of sports facilities, energy and ecological rehabilitation of buildings is also important, as such investments are among the priority programmes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed amendments and additions to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are a good basis for financing Slovenian sport, so we will also support the proposed proposal for a decision on consent to these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In short, I will give the position of the DeSUS Group to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. This June, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia delivered a negative opinion to the Sports Foundation. The audit showed that the lottery funds of 2 million and 400,000 euros were distributed in a transparent and subjective manner. The Court has also found that the Foundation has not defined in advance the financial evaluation of the programmes, nor has it established the rules and criteria for the allocation of funds. For this reason, the Foundation has prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, which is to be in accordance with the Court of Auditors’ findings. Although the text of the amendments and the addition of the Foundation's Rules were in line with the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport and the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions, and dealt with by the Section for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, some of the proposed solutions were poorly defined or poorly explained. In correcting the texts, the Sports Foundation followed the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, and today we have a fight against the rule of law, to which the parent committee has also agreed, as the chairman of this committee has also said. The DeSUS Group will thus support the harmonised rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Nova Slovenije. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We are proud to say that Slovenians are enthusiastic athletes. Many people, more and more young people, are engaged in sports with a lover, some professionally, and virtually all of us are enthusiastic fans of our sports clubs, especially national representatives and representatives at major European and global competitions. In Novi Slovenija we estimate that sport is a very important factor in the integration and unity of the Slovenian people, and athletes are the exceptional ambassadors of Slovenia, which in these times, when we share too much, is very important and commendable. The problem is that all sports industries are not as interesting for capital or simply for sponsors and donors. Here the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia will play an important role. The poor economic situation in the country and beyond are also reflected in the functioning of most sports organisations. Fund funds are a very important source of funding for their programmes for many Slovenian umbrella sports organisations, in some contexts these funds represent almost all of them. Due to all the above and with the desire to adopt the rules to best meet the needs of Slovenian sport, Members of the New Slovenia will be pleased to support the amendment and the addition of the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik on behalf of the delegation group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u172	Your Honor! That sport is healthy and useful, knows every child. Of course, we are aware of this, too, here in the National Assembly; that athletes daily, weekly, monthly happiness, and the name of our beautiful country around the world is also known. We also know that the State is making less and less resources from public funds. There are increasingly fewer sponsors and donors for top athletes, and increasingly less than I said, public funding for organised training is a necessary organised exercise for the youngest. That is why the funds allocated to sport by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations are so much more welcome. The amendments and additions to the rules on the terms, criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds of the Foundation have been discussed twice on the Committee. For the first time, we rejected, for one reason, the need to correct what the Legal and Legal Service had warned us about. Then we received a revised proposal, which, of course, we unanimously accepted, because it followed the recommendations of the professional and interested public as well as us, members of the committee. That is why we will support the proposal in Positive Slovenia, because we want the Foundation to issue a public call as soon as possible so that sports programme operators can get the hard-to-get and thus be able to meet those necessary sports programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u174	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! This time on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party or SDS Group. Life is a sport or, life is a game, they are a sentence we hear so many times in the modern world and we say it ourselves; and these two sentences are true. I'm sure today is more than ever. The act before us touches athletes and sports as a whole and Slovenian sport is certainly something for which we can all rightly be proud. Many times we do not even realize that the whole world today – all since the victory in the war for Slovenia – is the most recognized by our athletes, who are, in some ways, the best ambassadors of the Slovenian state. I would side with them by side with some entrepreneur who, on a global scale, has pointed out to this level that in some ways there is a term such as Mr Akrapovich. As far as athletes are concerned, the name Miro Cerar, mentioned by you, is certainly one of them. He's not the only one! Far from being the only one for Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u175	Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u176	What names and what kind of people we have and what their qualities are. [[...]] It is, however, perhaps in a similar way to the one that we have previously discussed, that it is also the duty of the State to establish the conditions for these qualities to be respected to the greatest extent possible. The adoption of the Regulations on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is certainly the most difficult act to expect at this time. It is up to whom and how the funds collected on the basis of the current legislation will be shared. The proposal is now in line with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, and we have sacrificed two meetings to this end, we have reached full agreement on the Committee and it is certainly worth all the support, as is worth all the support of Slovenian sport. In SDS as a special quality, we estimate that it is written in such a way that it further rewards the most successful, that it allocates more resources to them and thus enables further development of quality in Slovenian sport. I firmly believe that I am expressing the hope of everyone: as many success stories as possible in Slovenian sport in the following year and in the coming years as possible. We therefore express our full support by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to the tabled rule and, of course, we will be happy to vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! A good week ago, the Court of Auditors published a post-revision report on the corrective actions of the Sports Foundation to remedy irregularities identified in the 2010 Business Audit. As it is known, the Court of Auditors has had a number of comments on the work of the Sport Foundation and has therefore given a negative opinion on its business, because the funds were distributed without clear criteria, contrary to the provisions of the Treaties and the Decision establishing it and also in cases where the notifier has not reached a sufficient number of points. The amount of the disputed allocation was around one third of the allocated money in that year. The Court of Auditors in its audit report now finds that the measures taken by the Foundation to remedy irregularities are satisfactory. Such an assessment shall in particular be based on the proposed rules submitted by the Foundation to the National Assembly for Admission. In agreement with this act, the National Assembly will therefore help to remedy the irregularities cited by the Court of Auditors, and there is no way that a positive opinion on the rule reduces the responsibility of those who should ensure the careful distribution of funds by the Foundation. It is ironic that those who advocated the professionalisation of the function of the managing authority in 2007 are not prepared to take on these responsibilities by reason of the increase in liability given the size of the funds available to the foundation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also point out that the rules will not in themselves contribute to a more transparent operation of the Foundation, especially in an environment where conditions are created for the politicisation of this part of civil society. The political influences were established by a new Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije. Among other things, the ruling coalition has ensured that candidates for membership in the foundation's world will be double-checked with political relevance: first in the government's professional council and then in the ruling coalition in the National Assembly. To conclude, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are concerned about the current behaviour of the ruling coalition in the field of sport, and we are particularly concerned about the opinions of those who say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to support Slovenian sport at the head of the competent ministry. You can't return sports to athletes by transferring more than 10 million assets from a politically independent organization under the auspices of the ministry responsible for sport. We will support the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure in the Group of Social Democrats, as we understand them as a contribution to the definition of clearer conditions and criteria for receiving the funds allocated by the Foundation. This will also help to realise the forecast on the Sports Foundation's website, so that calls for the co-financing of the activities of sports organisations and for the construction of sports facilities will soon be published. And I'd add chess to the sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mag. Truda Cinderella on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. The Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia has carried out a public hearing on amendments and additions to the Regulation, in which the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport participated, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. The proposed text refers to the provisions governing the co-financing ratios of the areas of the annual programme, the conditions for co-financing of operators, criteria and allocations and the allocation procedure. Some substantive innovations are also included in the Regulation, focusing on the development of evaluation procedures for programmes and on the more detailed breakdown of rules and criteria for the distribution of tender funds. In particular, it is the area of financing sports activities, building sports facilities, research and development of sport and publishing in sport. Given that the proposal for a decision on consent to amendments and additions to the Regulation submitted to the National Assembly by the Foundation is also in line with the Legislative and Legal Service, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, Thursday, 25 October 2012, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item, as well as the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 9 a.m. tomorrow. And another notice. In 15 minutes, the 16th urgent meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič begins at 16.10. Members and members are requested to attend. Thank you very much.
