ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 9th regular meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today's session cannot be attended by Tamara Vont and Aloise Potočnik. I have invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item, this is to the questions raised by the Members, the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, at the 27th point, this is to the interpretation, and the representatives of the Government at all points of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the proposal on Friday, 7 December 2012, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda and proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to a decision on the agenda, so please check your cards. If you are prepared, we shall decide on the agenda for the 9th session of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda for the 9th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the contrary a bill on amendments to the Banking Act. The draft law has been tabled by the Government and I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr. Janez Šuštersič, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting from the honourable Member and Members of Parliament! Proposals for amendments to the Banking Act have the primary purpose of establishing or improving the legal regime to address the problems of the banking system. The solutions proposed are somehow in line with what is now being proposed or already being implemented across Europe, because timely and effective action is already in the phase of preventing risks in the banking system and not just in recovery. Therefore, we are trying to define more precisely the circumstances in which Banka Slovenije is given the responsibility to act. In particular, in the area of risk management in banks, this authority will now have jurisdiction even when it only detects problems that could arise and may impose, say, additional risk management measures on banks. It is proposed that banks should obtain Banka Slovenije’s permission to acquire qualified shares in financial companies, various leasing companies and similar companies. We don't have that kind of arrangement right now. Improvements and additional measures are proposed in the area of the provision of adequate bank capital, which is now an opportunity for Banka Slovenije to request that additional capital be provided not only to the owners but also to the owners of the owners, in order to determine the call for an extraordinary assembly within a very short period of time to ensure the recapitalisation of banks. What is also important in terms of resolving the situation in direct or indirect state-owned banks is the proposed exemption from the Takeover Act, which suggests that when someone recapitalises the bank on the basis of the regulator's request and therefore crosses the threshold of not having to make a takeover offer for two years. It is said that he has two years to either reduce his share again or make an offer to take over the entire bank. This would solve some of the situations that exist in banks today and where some of the bank's owners are not prepared to provide additional capital because they would have crossed the threshold. The Bank of Slovenia is then allowed to appoint an exceptional officer in a bank who can directly give instructions and act as a member of the administration, with similar powers as a member of the administration, in particular in the area of risk management, and is tightened and a whole set of additional measures in the field of specific control measures is introduced. What I have already mentioned is mandatory compliance with the instructions of Banka Slovenije, the possibility of Banka Slovenije preventing the bank from disposing or burdening the bank's assets, including the transfer of funds to related companies, that is to say that it is impossible in some way to weaken the bank before the recapitalisation. A reorganisation plan may be imposed, a compulsory sale of the shares of the bank may be ordered, that is to say, if banks that do not care about banks do not wish to recapitalise the bank, to ensure appropriate capital adequacy, the Bank of Slovenia may order the forced sale of shares, that is to say the change of the owner, the real punishment of the irresponsible owner in this way and may also order the transfer of the assets of the bank not to any particular acquisition company, possibly another bank. This prevents bankruptcy, uncontrolled bankruptcy and ensures the preservation of healthy assets, in particular the security of deposits held by residents and economic operators in banks. It is also important to propose that the Bank of Slovenia, under this law, be empowered to issue its own decision to prohibit a member of the Bank's Supervisory Board from managing this function if it finds that it violates the duties of a member of the Supervisory Board, or if it finds that there is any obstacle, of course on a legal basis, to fulfil this function as a member of the Supervisory Board. Until now, Banka Slovenije has only been able to express its opinion to the owner and we have also taken this into account several times, or such members of the Supervisory Board have resigned. We are now giving Banka Slovenije this opportunity to directly prohibit the performance of a member of the Supervisory Board to a member who does not meet expectations. The law is as coordinated as possible with the Bank of Slovenia. Most of the proposals also came from their side and from the Securities Market Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. To present the report to Andre Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, the members of the coalition groups have also tabled amendments to this proposal. In the introductory explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the aim of the proposal is to establish a specific legal regime to deal more effectively with the problems facing the banking system in acute situations. In doing so, he stressed the main solutions of the law. These are additional measures to increase the core capital of each bank. This can be determined by the Bank of Slovenia within a reasonable time frame, so that each bank reaches an appropriate level of capital. In addition, it is a measure or a number of measures relating to risk management and, of course, the introduction of the possibility of Banka Slovenije appointing an exceptional authority in the bank, with a view to improving risk management. As we know, this is about different risks, credit risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, market risk, etc. It is also possible for Banka Slovenije to issue specific control measures in each bank, including exceptional supervision and the possibility of transferring the assets of the bank to the acquiring company and for Banka Slovenije to a member of the supervisory board of the bank by a decision to prohibit the management of the function of the supervisory board member in the bank. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed different opinions, views and proposals on the proposed solutions to the proposal. Among other things, the view was expressed that the proposed solutions seek to address the consequences instead of the causes of over-indebtedness of businesses and banks. The view was also expressed that the crisis at the level of the European Union was more systematic and planned, with the European Union's plan presented in three stages to address the shortcomings in the financial, fiscal and economic policies of the euro area. The debate stressed that the issue of bank capital undernutrition and, of course, the indebtedness of banks is crucial to dealing effectively with the crisis. Support was expressed for most of the measures, including the appointment of an exceptional authorising officer, the possibility of prohibiting the management of the function of supervisory board members in certain cases, the implementation of risk management rules, measures to ensure the capital adequacy of banks. It was also suggested in the debate that the Bank of Slovenia should, in the past, monitor and effectively prevent the granting of high credits with poor coverage on the basis of the legislation in force in this area, which it has unfortunately not done. Concern was also expressed regarding the possible abuse of the proposed law and the sale of banks-owned companies and the sale of the banking system. There were also warnings regarding the separation of the management function and the supervisory function in banks and the organisation of the internal audit services of banks. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the law and adopted them and adopted them before adopting, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, it's the DeSUS Group. In her name, Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a very warm greeting to all present. The proposal for a new Banking Act will strengthen the instruments available to Banka Slovenije for supervision of banks and for action. According to our assessment, a legal regime should be put in place to deal more effectively with the problems of the banking system. The novelty brings measures that Banka Slovenije can implement as part of its supervisory function, in particular with regard to the increase in the core capital of banks, which we believe will allow the establishment of a resolution regime for the banking system in particular to ensure capital adequacy. The fact is that timely and effective action by supervisory authorities is crucial to resolving financial institutions in difficulty, which has unfortunately not been a practice in Slovenia in recent years. The consequences, however, are reflected in enormous bad loans and even worse business of many Slovenian banks and consequently our economy. If the supervisory authorities have not already carried out their work in accordance with their powers and tasks, at least the Bank of Slovenia could be expected to play a key role as supervisor over the operations of Slovenian banks. This allows it already to have legislation in force, so we cannot get rid of the bad feeling that Banka Slovenije has not done its work in the supervisory function as it should, so according to our assessment it bears the highest share of responsibility for the situation in the banking field and, of course, the situation in our economy and the country. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that Banka Slovenije will be able to take advantage of the new regulations, as Banka Slovenije will be able to act only on the basis of its assessment that a bank does not manage or manage risks properly. Among other things, it will be able to appoint a special administration, prohibit the sale of assets, request a restructuring plan from the bank or order the forced sale of bank shares to the burden of existing shareholders. As a particularly important provision of the amendment, we would like to highlight in the DeSUS Group a provision under which the Bank of Slovenia may require the transfer of the assets and liabilities of the bank to the acquiring company. It will thus take over a healthy part of the bank's business in difficulty and thus enable it to be resolved. However, we must also point out that if the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks is not implemented, this provision will not be in force. An exception to the application of the Takeover Act is also incorporated into the draft law. When someone recapitalises a bank on the basis of the regulator's request, they will not be obliged to issue a takeover offer immediately. He will have two years to publish the takeover or exit from ownership. The Bank of Slovenia will also be given the authority to recall the bank’s supervisor if it fails to comply with the legal conditions or violates its obligations. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a banking novelty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u7	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very nice greetings to all, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In order to resolve financial institutions in difficulty, we believe that timely and effective action by supervisory authorities is crucial. Measures and powers must be clearly defined in both preventive and remedial terms in order to maintain the stability of the financial system, ensure the protection of depositors and limit the negative effects on public funds. However, the primary responsibility must be clearly defined — personal responsibility. Unfortunately, Slovenia has passed the exam too often. We need to fix this right now. In New Slovenia, we welcome the decision of European countries to uniformly control European banks, especially when it comes to the supervision of banks that have severely paralysed the European economy because of poor and irresponsible national supervisors. Our expectations are high and we expect the Banking Union project to regain confidence in the European banking system and timely and effective preventive measures to prevent a possible new crisis. We also expect that European banking supervision, because we have unfortunately lost confidence in our home, will prevent SCT, Contribution or Mercury from repeating itself in terms of credit errors. Unfortunately, the way to the banking union is still a long, very long one — about a year and a half. Therefore, the amendment to the Banking Act, as discussed today, is very necessary. We believe it should have been adopted at least three years ago. The supervisory function of banks is governed by the applicable legislation of Banka Slovenije. The purpose of the supervision of the various supervisory authorities is different and consistent with their powers and measures. Thus, the fundamental objective of Banka Slovenije’s supervision is to ensure the security of investors’ deposits in banks and thus to ensure confidence in the banking system. Probably no one among us is satisfied with the exercise of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia in the past. However, it is necessary to be honest that, in fact, there is, until now, existing legislation in force all the measures that Banka Slovenije or Banka Slovenije would have to take, has blocked it in some way. The current amendment of the Banking Act is particularly increasing the scope of Banka Slovenije’s powers in relation to bank supervision. Of course, we expect Banka Slovenije to take effective action in future legislative frameworks when the reasons are given. Let me introduce the news introduced by the amendment of the Banking Act. The circumstances justifying the competence of the Bank of Slovenia to act under its control are defined, on the basis of detected violations in the bank or the apparent likelihood of risk management infringements. It also lays down the circumstances under which the likelihood of such infringements is identified. The proposal thus allows the supervisor to remedy the negative effects and possible infringements in a particular bank in a timely manner on the basis of the identified trends in the bank or in the banking system. The Bank of Slovenia is allowed to appoint a special officer in a bank that will contribute directly to improved management of the risks of the bank. A new arrangement is the emergency control measures involving the appointment of an emergency bank administration, the forced sale of bank shares to existing shareholders, the increase of the bank's core capital on the basis of a bank's decision and the transfer of assets and liabilities of the bank to the acquiring company. The Bank of Slovenia may, to a member of the supervisory board of a bank where it finds that it is in breach of the duties of a member of the supervisory board or that there is an obstacle to the appointment of a member of the supervisory board or does not meet the conditions for appointment, by a decision to prohibit the performance of a member of the supervisory board in the bank. All these measures are based on the fact that banks are companies that can lose the trust of depositors and investors at the moment with the fatal consequences for financial and economic stability, and therefore a special regime regarding their capital reinforcement is needed. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u9	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Nice greeting also for the Maribor youth on the balcony! I wish you'd be busy and quickly employed. Your Honor! Some urgent introduction on the circumstances that prompted the consideration of the amended law.First of all, about the three big balloons that have been blown up before our eyes in recent years. I am thinking of the real estate or construction sector, then a balloon about taking over businesses and business euphoria. All three balloons were financed by bank loans. The debt of the companies was transferred to the banks below. And since banks are not allowed and cannot fail, the debt of state banks has shifted to the state, or so-called public debt, to all citizens and citizens. I could say that, a week ago, in the discussion on the budget, we were dealing with the consequences, the symptoms, not the causes of the current economic problems of the country. In particular, it is the debt of businesses and banks. There is no comprehensive plan to resolve the indebtedness of businesses and banks. They also include prescriptions that are self-paid, which are called "packs" and "output strategies" or "recommendations". Europe, an old lady, seems to have finally abandoned cosmetics. The plan of the so-called four goes into three stages. Firstly, 2013, effective monitoring of Member States' budgets and the introduction of uniform supervision of banks. 2013-2014, the Joint Fund for Bank Recovery, the countries with Brussels would conclude specific austerity reforms of the agreement. And after 2014, the creation of a common euro budget with security guards for countries in crisis. In the first two stages, the idea of a monetary union is at the forefront. Before or in parallel, the issue of sub-nutrition, capital undernutrition of banks from indebtedness and indebtedness of countries must be distinguished. The latter is key to effectively coping with the crisis. In the light of these circumstances and circumstances, we feel that the law, with its solutions as new or complementary, is necessary and reasonably supported. The measures, from the prohibition on the exercise of the functions of the members of the supervisory board of the bank, through the position and powers of the extraordinary authorising officer, to the scale of measures, additional, special and exceptional, in order to ensure the stability of the financial system, shall be based on Greek and other experience. And it's also true that writing into marriage is not going to be enough. It's a long meeting. It's a long harvest. However, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has serious and legitimate concerns at paragraph 52 of the draft law governing the rights of a legal person to manage bank claims. In this regard, we have proposed an amendment to delete paragraph 52. The Article refers to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks adopted by the National Assembly, but has not yet been implemented, as a referendum initiative has been given to it. The collection of signatures is currently suspended as the National Assembly demanded a constitutional review of the referendum initiative. In Positive Slovenia, we would therefore like to draw attention to the operationality or inoperability of this article, as if there were a referendum and the law at the referendum would be rejected, the article disabled or unable to enforce and apply it. We therefore propose that this article be deleted and that the law be supplemented when it is known what will be done with the implementation of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister! The amendments to the Banking Act adapt the legislation to the current situation in Slovenia. Of course, not only in Slovenia, but part of such measures are also being prepared in the European Union and have already been adopted by individual members, and others are likely to. All of this is ultimately linked to the joint supervision of the banking system in the European Union. In fact, these changes are somehow lagging behind the actual situation in the banking and financial system with us and in Europe. After the 2008 crisis, the first crisis, of course, began with the collapse of Lehman Brothers, this crisis in the financial system continues in Europe, with the US banks in particular solving the crisis. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, this crisis has not yet been resolved mainly by the late conduct of the entire banking system. Notwithstanding the increased control provided for by this law, it must be said that the regulator or Banka Slovenije has already had the opportunity, after the current Banking Act, to implement certain measures in banks, in particular those banks that had problems with capital adequacy or liquidity or where any other risks were greater. Unfortunately, this did not happen, although it would probably be necessary to control and only involve in the management and control of some Slovenian banks, so that Banka Slovenije would actually be more actively involved. The bill therefore proposes to provide for more direct measures in the area of bank management and supervision. Banka Slovenije can also order special supervision, the Bank of Slovenia is supposed to do so, to prohibit the confiscation of certain assets of the bank, to establish an exceptional administration or to propose a reorganisation of the bank, and, of course, to merge the bank with another bank. Increasing capital adequacy with an order is, of course, possible and I think that this can be one of the extreme measures. After all, supervisors and administrations must monitor capital adequacy and this can only happen in extreme cases. The owners are also those who have to worry about appropriate capital adequacy in the bank. The remedial measures, which are also provided for in this bill, will be able to strengthen the banking system in Slovenia. Similarly, the basic purpose or purpose of the law is to strengthen the stability of the banking system and to ensure the liquidity of the banking system. Finally, the remaining risks, market risks and foreign exchange risks of the banking system also need to be reduced. From the point of view of the applicability of these provisions, these provisions are acceptable and we will also support the entire law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u13	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u14	Respected and respected! It is clear that banking and the financial sector need to be further regulated and strengthened in order to ensure that what is the source of Slovenian problems never again. To ensure that banks and other financial institutions faithfully and responsibly carry out their task, while ensuring that appropriate supervisors are aware of the risks. The Social Democrats therefore welcome the solution, which is the first step towards the introduction of the licensing of supervisory councils with the solution that Banka Slovenije can subsequently prohibit the performance of the function of a member of the Supervisory Board, by which it will be prevented from being in the supervisory boards of supervisors who do not have the necessary experience to supervise banks. As early as March this year, the Social Democrats proposed a solution to enable the licensing of supervisory boards of banks by the Bank of Slovenia, which means that they could not be recruited into supervisory councils of banks, political personnel who do not even know the field of banking, let alone corporate supervision. This proposal was rejected by Minister Šuštersič at the time, saying: "I am afraid that if we went to the full licensing of all, it might reduce very much the number of people who could be in these supervisory councils." That's what he said on the Committee on Finance on 21 March. Following clear and critical responses from the Capital Investment Management Agency and Banka Slovenije, the inadequate supervisors appointed by that government have resigned. We think that the proposed solution is non-trust in the work of the Minister of Finance, who proposes the appointment of inadequate supervisors by the State. Of course, it is still a question of why, for example, in the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, this country and its representatives at the Assembly of Banks appoint supervisors by the NCBs, even though they do not belong to them. This benefits others to the detriment of the State. With regard to the exceptional powers of the Bank of Slovenia, we estimate that they are appropriate in certain cases. While the government expects legislative changes to establish a specific legal regime to address the problems of the banking system, the emphasis will be placed on timely and effective action by authorities with clearly defined measures and powers both from a preventive and a remedial point of view. The proposal for a new law is even intended to provide a contribution towards avoiding an application for international financial assistance. However, the Minister of Finance's statements clearly show a different agenda. On 4 December 2012, the Minister of Finance for Online Work said that in the event of the rejection of the Bad Bank Act, the government would choose alternative routes, require aggressive sale of assets in bank balance sheets and accelerate the search for a buyer for them with all the bad baggage at any cost. The debate on national interest is out of the question, the Minister emphasises. In the event of the collapse of the Holding Act, they will also implement other scenarios for the sale of State property, which will be significantly more complex than those envisaged by the current regime or envisaged in the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding. The derogation from the law was proposed by the Central Bank and later the Ministry of its own initiative included different provisions in the draft law. In the proposal for a law, the Ministry introduced, inter alia, a provision whereby shareholders of shares acquired through recapitalisation, but without the publication of a takeover offer, should not exercise voting rights, while in the law the proposal of the central bank remained that the shareholders of voting rights would be lost if they had not published a takeover offer within two years. It is worth mentioning that the publication of the acquisition bid after amendments to the Banking Act would not be compulsory for banks if they acquired the shares held in the company. As explained in Banka Slovenije, by amending the Bank's legislation, they want to encourage the Bank's involvement in business restructuring procedures without risk of having to publish a takeover offer. The Central Bank proposed that banks should not have to issue a takeover bid for five years, but the financial ministry limited the deadline to just two years. The question is whether this deadline, taking into account the wider economic situation and the expected trends, is realistic, and we also stress the Social Democrats. We also believe that this law should take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the evidence of the non-constitutionality of this law, such as the determination of the powers of the Bank of Slovenia with regard to sub-legislative acts. Because of all of this, we will not support the proposed law to the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u15	On behalf of the Member State list, Mr Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! The Civil Code will support amendments to the Banking Act. The changes were proposed mainly by the Central Bank of Slovenia and give the Bank of Slovenia greater powers to take action and to act in situations where banks are in difficulty. This law will not solve the situation, it will not solve the problems, but we hope that control will be better. In doing so, I must say that the existing law has also allowed all kinds of control and control, and it is sad not to find that Banka Slovenije has not done its work properly. First of all, she allowed the banks to lend us credits that now hurt our heads. Nothing helps us with all the difficult analysis, the audits in banks, unless they identify the substance in these audits and act in a timely manner. The fact is that for the first loan where there was no adequate coverage or protection for this loan, the bank should act and prevent these lending that took place. Unfortunately, counting the dead behind the curves doesn't do much good. Much better if you don't, a sign that limits speed in a dangerous curve. And that's what the bank should do. It should prohibit all lending of any kind in which it was known in the future that they would not be returned. We know that for all the credits that have been paid by the flag of debt securities with the stock flag, it has already been clear in the future and also in the light of the extent to which these credits will never be repaid. Here the bank has made a huge mistake, although we are talking about three balloons, we have heard before, including construction, where there are a lot of outstanding obligations left, but I think that these obligations are somehow better protected. Here there was just a concrete real estate, such as apartments, construction buildings, parcels, etc., where bank withdrawals would be much better than those where companies with a stock flag were purchased. That is why it is really irresponsible and I still don't see the bank doing that function and I don't trust it to actually prevent it. I know this can't be happening to that extent right now, but it can still be done. So in a way, I hope that the things that are going on around the bad banks will work out, because this is the only way we will be able to successfully monitor the banks and examine and determine the responsibility of what happened in the granting of the credits that cause us to have a headache. There have probably been such loans where we will never see a refund, more than €10 billion. We know what a busy pile of money that is. This is more than our annual budget, so I do not think the role has been played and I still do not trust the Bank of Slovenia and I am pleased that the European Union has decided to reach out to some banks. All these problems occur practically in those banks where the country is the majority or majority owner. Other banks didn't have that kind of crap going on. The Bank of Slovenia, which was empowered to control, did not fully understand and do anything when there was a time and there would be no such consequences as we are now facing. I hope that this European mechanism, which will in some way enter into force only in 2014, will also bring about a few greater opportunities for the Bank of Slovenia, and in particular, through resolution through a bad bank, we should achieve an effective section in the banking field and, once and for all, regulate and make it impossible for stupidities, as has been the case so far, to continue. The Citizens' List will support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u17	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u18	Good day to you all. Your Honor! I am not entirely sure if there is any other law that I could rightly say: four years too late, the damage has already been done. In the previous mandate, several meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy were convened at the request of the Slovenian People's Party, at which interesting discussions were held on the situation in the banking system. Of course, most of the debaters then referred to the Bank of Slovenia’s representatives, i.e. the main supervisors and regulators, or to take appropriate action in the field of credit. The truth is, although there was not much to talk about at the time, many well knew that disaster was in the balance sheets of our largest banks. The questions were mainly about concrete measures what the Bank of Slovenia was actually doing. The governor and his team explained how they were primarily warned and issued warnings and orders. We all knew that credit activity had grown excessively in the years leading up to the crisis, and credit insurance was under any criticism. Why are we so critical? It's obvious that only individual banks were out of the game. Almost unlimited liquidity, which has also been lovingly encouraged by the European Central Bank, cannot be an excuse to abandon the critical assessment of credit risk. And no mistake, we all understand that times were completely different, but what's too much is too much. Why does UniCredit have no problems today and NLB is practically right before the break? Why does the SKB normally operate and increase lending, while New Credit Bank Maribor is looking for money for no more recapitalisation? We would expect Banka Slovenije to enter here in the past. Not at all banks! But it is sad that the national regulator, that is, the chief supervisor, has canceled with our banks or, as we like to say, has canceled with our silver and thus turned it into old iron. It is also more obvious that Banka Slovenije is not seen in this role in this way than we obviously imagine. It has often been heard that they do not have the authority and that they do not even have the right to interfere with the operation of banks. With the new law, we rightly expect that running from responsibility is over. The circumstances in which Banka Slovenije is expected to intervene are precisely defined: it is already possible to identify at the initial stage the occurrence of infringements in relation to the area of risk management and requires immediate and timely resolution of negative effects. Moreover, new measures are being proposed to increase core capital and appoint an extraordinary officer in each bank. In more critical cases, the Bank of Slovenia has been given the possibility of appointing an extraordinary administration, forcing the sale of bank shares for the account of existing shareholders, the transfer of assets and liabilities to the acquiring company. The Bank of Slovenia will also supervise the functioning and competence of the members of the supervisory boards of banks. Your Honor! The banking system is the basis of national economies and therefore we cannot compare the measures in this area with those in other parts of the economy. It is not irrelevant that the State guarantees to a certain extent the population's deposits and thus has a great responsibility to the population and to the state's property. For all the reasons listed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome this law and say: better late than never. Banka Slovenije employs about 400 people, compared to the total balance sheet sum of our banking system much more than in other European countries. As of today, they will also have all the necessary legislative basis for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the coalition parliamentary groups have recently tabled an amendment to this amendment, which you already have in your system or in your e-clup application, and you can see it. And he'll be split into benches in about five minutes. We begin the debate on the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] If there is no desire to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2, then we are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. In the amendment tabled under Article 5, we would like to point out and, in our view, at least more appropriately address the problem of the seizure of voting rights by the State or representatives of the State in banks, where, for example, it has a majority share in the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. At this moment, Slovenia has no voting rights in the New Credit Bank Maribor, where more than 50% of this bank is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We have also pointed out this problem through a discussion with the Capital Investment Management Agency, of course the previous leadership of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which pointed out this problem, and at the beginning of this mandate we have also tabled a proposal to amend the takeover law to ensure voting rights for the Republic of Slovenia, even if it owns more than 50%. Sadly, this law was then rejected by the current government or coalition. In this amendment, we propose that the Bank be recapitalised as a result of the regulatory requirement, either the Bank of Slovenia or other relevant institutions with such powers, 5 years after such recapitalisation, the Republic of Slovenia would have voting rights. By doing so, we extend the time limit provided for in this law for these rights to be granted for only 2 years. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Bank of Slovenia has also wished or suggested that such voting rights should be granted for an unlimited period of time. Even if we decided in Slovenia to maintain a 50% and higher share of ownership in banks, which is not unusual, because all the old European countries, if I call them that, within the European Union, are doing so, and have also substantially recapitalised their banks in large percentages of gross domestic product, allowing them to credit their economies in these times of crisis and to conquer new markets because they are more competitive than those where national banks say they do not do so to their companies. With this amendment, I think we are solving this moment of extremely pressing problem, which needs to be addressed urgently and should have been solved at least one year ago, if not before. So I hope that our amendment will be adopted because it is truly more appropriate, even in view of everything that is going on in capital markets, that this time, when it is absolutely necessary to ensure the right conditions both in banks and in the economy, we are not wasting our money on whom and how many banks we are selling, but that we are recapitalising banks as soon as possible and that these banks can then service our economy as soon as possible. The five-year period that we are proposing is certainly more realistic for Slovenia to cope with this economic crisis than the two-year period proposed by the government, because it is obviously limited to some time of rule or the duration of this government's regular mandate, and then it is not allowed to exercise voting rights again if banks remain majority-owned in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the two-year period, according to the Bank of Slovenia and financial experts operating in the banking sector, is too short a period, and we believe that this amendment, which extends this period to at least five years, is significantly more accurate and responds to the current economic situation in Slovenia and to the current state of business in banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you. Minister Šušteršič entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u22	Nicely greeted! I'd like to explain a little bit about this matter you've been talking about. You'll recall that we've changed the Banking Act once this year, in the middle of the year. At that time, we changed it to allow the capital of banks to be strengthened through conditionally convertible bonds. At that time, Banka Slovenije proposed an additional measure, proposing a measure to set a threshold for banks to 50%. At that time, the Securities Markets Agency strongly opposed such a proposal. Their main argument was that banks cannot be subject to a different takeover regime than other companies, since banks are, in principle, companies. And I would like to see banks in Slovenia in situations where this will be the case in particular. That is why we withdrew this proposal at the time and then sought a possible compromise for some time. And what is now proposed is a possible compromise between different principles. One principle is that all companies are subject to takeover legislation, while the other is to seek some compromise or some space for situations where someone is willing to recapitalise banks, but does not want to do so because of the obligation to make a takeover offer at the same time as a minimum required recapitalisation. You were only talking about the case that these recapitalisations would be carried out by the state. This, for the first time, is not the only option, secondly, if, if I understood you correctly, we would make an exception to the takeover legislation because it is primarily intended for the State which will recapitalise, then we would place this country in a privileged position vis-à-vis all others who might recapitalise banks. This thinking, because the country is going to do it, but then it's okay, it's not right. The State must be in the same position as any other person operating there when operating on the market and operating in companies or in banks. As a result, we tried to resolve the matter with a short enough time. But it's short again for a number of reasons. We don't have a bank in Slovenia right now, except for the SID of the bank, which is regulated by special law and is a completely different type of bank, but we don't have any bank that would be in 100 percent of the country's property. There are other shareholders everywhere, small shareholders, which are also Slovenian, and there are some foreign investors, I think every bank we have. This is said to be a waiver from the obligation to make a take-up offer infringing on the rights of these shareholders, as they have the right under law to participate in these recapitalisations at prices which are usually in these recapitalisations due to the situation in which banks are very low. This is, therefore, some intervention measures, some specific measures, an intervention in the rights of small shareholders, in the event that this will actually happen, and this is probably the most likely possibility for the State to recapitalise itself, it is some of the privileges of the State as a recapitaliser, so these matters must be limited and should be limited to a reasonable short period of time. I would also point out that the law does not say that this exception applies two years from today. If we do not change the law, this exception will apply within three years. Thinking from now to the end of the crisis is that much, but let's give five years, because then the crisis will be over, it's not appropriate, because the law doesn't say from now on for the next five years, but it's the right two years from the acquisition of the stake. That's why we decided to cut short. It's not that we want to transfer control in any way. And with regard to this perception, which is implicit here, after the transfer of control to another place, I would also like to explain this matter, which has now been reported for the second or third time to be appointed to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank by the people who will represent the interests of the NCBs there. For the first time, I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance does not even propose or appoint people to the supervisory councils of banks. He doesn't have the authority to do that. Secondly, when it comes to the two supervisors proposed in the meeting today, it is not the representative of the NCBs who proposed to the Supervisory Board in cooperation with the administration, not in cooperation with the NCBs. These are two persons who have experience in the restructuring of banks abroad, in countries such as Iceland. It is the bank's express wish to be assisted as supervisors by people who have experience in restructuring banks in difficulty, which is a key task of the bank's current administration in the following year. We have then supported and supported this in the framework of our competences. However, I would like to very clearly deny that this is a matter for the representatives of the NCBs or for some subtle transfer of influence to that bank. On the contrary, it is those who will help improve the quality of the bank's restructuring in the best interest of shareholders. Who's the biggest shareholder, anyway, we know.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you. For similar reasons, as he tried to explain or explained them, Mr Minister, we have also invested in fact a limited period of five years, which should be considered that you can have a higher share of ownership. During this period, even if we write this down, it is likely that, at least in my opinion, the Securities Market Agency must also respect this, because the legal order dictates such conduct. On the other hand, it is important to ask whether the securities market in Slovenia works in a manner normally in some normal circumstances. And I think it is indisputably clear today that they are not entirely normal situations in this market and that this situation needs to be stabilised. It is estimated that a five-year period from the execution of this recapitalisation is one appropriate period, so that even those who have decided to do so can properly carry out all the procedures, how they will withdraw from this bank, at least at some point in time, in order to ensure, above all, the normal operation. Let me say that we Social Democrats are also working to ensure that when the market can yield higher returns, when the market can, due to the stability of the business of the bank and also to the market where the bank operates, we can also get interested investors. I am sure you also know that such investors existed as long as the bank was able to operate at a very high level according to the criteria in force in banking. The more we talk about banks being in a difficult position to be sold out at all costs, the more serious investors are actually moving away. Here is a whole range of circumstances that need to be taken into account and that we are seriously alerted by the Social Democrats, and we are always talking about the need to attract foreign investors or private investors to the bank, but we must be careful that the dominant part does not go private, but that it still has a dominant part of the country because it needs a system bank. So our principle is a kind of dispersed property, more private investors, where as an investor does not go beyond what we believe the Republic of Slovenia must have in the bank, that it has a dominant influence on how this bank will react during the economic growth period and even at a time when the recession, in which the Slovenian economy is certainly located right now. With regard to the presence of foreigners in the supervisory council of the New Ljubljana Bank, I must once again express my disagreement with what he is trying to explain or justify this behaviour, Mr Minister. Of course, officially and according to the regulations of the Minister or Government, this and this must be in the supervisory council, as this legislation prohibits. However, the fact is that the Government has fully subordinated itself to the Capital Investment Management Agency and that virtually nothing happens without the Government Directive. The point that we have today on the agenda, when we re-appointed the CEO of the Capital Investment Management Agency, also proves that even the person you have already appointed has withdrawn, rather than following, in our opinion, the political influence in the recruitment and decision-making of companies and banks that are predominantly owned by the Republic of Slovenia. To talk about the fact that in the supervisory board of banks, which currently has 6 members, even though it could have 11 members, but currently there are 6 of them, of which, as of today, 5 foreigners, is very unusual. We know that during this period of economic crisis, foreign banks, which have their own positions or have their own positions in Slovenia, were the first to withdraw from the crisis and not solve problems in Slovenia, but to solve the problems of their home banks and the national economy. I do not expect those who have been appointed today – not to deny their competence, but the interest they will follow, but in view of the current thinking of the government, which even thinks about 100 % of the sale of state property, I see no other reason than for foreigners to get as much information as possible on how the companies operating, which are the committees of the New Ljubljana Bank, will operate and how they will get as cheaply as possible ownership in these companies. And the easiest way to do that is not to extend someone's credit, for example, which they urgently need for their development. And if you grant him this reprogramming of credit under some poor conditions, it also comes into trouble and this danger of selling our companies to foreigners and then again some may have an interest in taking advantage of our knowledge and expanding markets, while others have – and this has also happened many times – the interest to drain capital from Slovenia and thus exhaust our gross domestic product. Finally, Lek is clear evidence of such behavior. If we make a comparison today between the business of Krka and Lek, we find that the importance of Krka for gross domestic product is significantly greater to make a profit that remains in Slovenia than in Lek. If this is the only way to do it, we need to be very careful whether we have any foreigner at the national bank. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that the NCB, which is still co-owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, has not recapitalised the New Ljubljana Bank three times or even four times, but we have always recapitalised it as a state. Here too, if we are talking about Banka Slovenije today and also about this article, it should have reacted long ago and, in fact, prohibited any cooperation or activity in the supervisory councils of the NCBs because it failed to fulfil its obligations as co-owner of this bank. This is another, I would say, very clear evidence that this composition of the Supervisory Board is completely inadequate and is not in Slovenia's interest, but is in the interest of the parent bank in Belgium, in a particular case of the NCBs, so we say all the time that the Social Democrats are saying that this moment is immediately by the State, which is possible, to recapitalise the New Bank of Ljubljana and thereby empower the NCBs to become, in fact, a 100 % owner of the state and then we continue to talk with the regulator, under what conditions and perhaps within five years, as we propose, to get the relevant owners of the banks interested that this bank will work successfully in this region, in this area where it operates. Despite all the explanations you are trying to give that foreigners are a suitable solution to the management of the Slovenian bank, I must admit that I do not really agree with this, because the practice so far has shown that foreigners have not solved our problem but, above all, they want to solve their problem. This composition, which will be, we can clearly conclude that it will not work completely in any other direction than to try to resolve interests outside Slovenia. Despite all the concerns or not so serious concerns, I think it is worth considering that even if we recapitalise to a significant extent our bank, we have the opportunity to find a suitable solution for five years to obtain good bank owners and thus to help our economy effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Any other desire to discuss the amendment to Article 5? If not, we conclude and move on to the amendment tabled by the Positive Slovenia, Article 52. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Stepišnik has applied. Anybody else want to discuss it? No, no, no. Mr. Stephnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The positive Slovenia, as already mentioned in the introduction, proposed to delete Article 52. Article 52 provides for the possibility for a legal entity to manage bank receivables to sell the assets of the bankruptcy debtor itself, which was given to the insurance of the claim transferred by the bankruptcy debtor to the bank and to that legal person. This Article, of course, refers to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen the Stability of Banks, which is ongoing in the referendum procedure or constitutional assessment. We therefore propose that this article be deleted and that the law be supplemented when it is known what will happen with the implementation of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In the case of a positive referendum, this article is a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u28	Nice to meet you. If I could expect your support for that marriage to be held at the referendum, I might even understand this thought, but this article, which is all I wanted to explain, in general, is about any society, and if they do not have the kind of society that was proposed by the law that was passed in the National Assembly, then it will probably have to be arranged differently. These companies can be banks, although they are foreseen in this law. Thus, we are not talking about a specific company with a name and surname with a company, but we are talking about on a general basis any legal person who, not necessarily, would set up by a country to resolve these bank claims. Therefore, it seems reasonable for us to arrange in this law for this possibility to be established. If such an article were to be proposed after the possible fall of the Bad Bank Act and the referendum, a legal interpretation of such an article might even arise. It is no longer possible to propose because there are similar provisions. I think it's better if we sort this out now while it's still time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Dr. Shutterschitch. Is there any other desire to discuss the amendment to this article? Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u30	The following must be clarified in this Article and the amendment. Even if the amendment of Positive Slovenia is adopted, there is still every possibility of transferring bad claims to another company that will carry out this claim, even under current legislation and also to companies that we already have in Slovenia for this purpose. It should be recalled, however, that from the very beginning, when we also regulated the banking system and companies after independence to carry out the privatisation process, we had an established agency for the rehabilitation of banks and savings banks and later this agency was transformed into an SRD, a Slovenian Development Society. Today, for example, the legal successor of this is the Consulting and Management Company, which still manages certain shares of companies or companies that have failed to successfully carry out all procedures on the market in order to obtain the right owners. The DSU is certainly one of those institutions which could continue this activity in the event of the adoption of the amendment of Positive Slovenia and also in the event of the collapse of the Bad Bank Act at the referendum. As well as PDP, a company set up for similar purposes already operates in Slovenia So it really does not have to look for new and new institutions, new and new companies to manage bad bank claims. We've got it all. And this great science and this great effort and not least wasting time at a time when we should not actually spend it and fix things in banks as soon as possible, and in particular help a company that is over-indebted, this whole mechanism already exists in Slovenia, we just obviously don't want to see it and we don't want to use it, because, of course, this would mean that politics will not have a decisive impact on what will happen to an individual economic society or a bank. And that's a key problem all the time we've been talking here, whether or not we need a company to manage the bank's claims in this Bad Bank Act. This is not about helping banks in a short time, because this establishment of a bad bank will not deliver results in a short time, but it will allow one process of reselling private companies in Slovenia that have credits in Slovenian banks. And this is a process where policy will have a decisive impact on how it will react to individual companies. We have repeatedly pointed out the specific problem of Cimos. The last decision of the Government – I do not know if it is final, but at least after what we could conclude – that it will make a recapitalisation is an appropriate solution and also an appropriate solution for banks to properly reprogram the loan, extend the repayment period of that company's credit so that its production, and also the market, can pay all these obligations without problems. Even if we accept the amendment of Positive Slovenia, nothing drastic will happen, only to see what is already in Slovenia. Indeed, it would be right to be definitive and sober as soon as possible and to use all these mechanisms, which are already available and we are not always looking for new and new solutions, which, as it appears, are also worse from the expert opinion than we already have at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Dr. Schustersch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u32	I, Mr Weber, am always thrilled at the breadth of thoughts that you explain here about a bad bank. I guess then you're always surprised, excited that I'm answering that. But that's the way it is. Look, I want you to hear my answers and try to understand them. I'm surprised you didn't actually repeat the famous one that a bad bank is ten times more expensive than recapitalisation and so on. For the last time, I am this argument that is being used all the time by those who are really responsible for the delays that you are reading to me, it is said, those who have submitted referenda on this law. They repeat this argument all the time. Last time I mentioned this to a representative, an economist from one of the international organisations, this organisation explicitly believes that it is good to transfer claims from banks to a special organisation because banks obviously cannot deal with this. It took exactly half a minute for him to say that this argument was entirely unfounded and in the next half a minute he said exactly what I had already explained three times in Parliament. But apparently sometimes some people understand things a lot faster than others. Or they're more willing to listen. I didn't want to say anything about the ability to understand, but maybe about the willingness to understand. As for the legal basis and the fact that we already have institutions that could do this, what we have proposed will be done by a bad bank. Of course, we do not have them because we need a marriage basis so that we can do so. Today we are no longer in 1991, neither in 1995, nor in 2011, we are in the European Union, and we must respect the rules on state aid. If we want to do this, we have to have a marriage, we have to do it by law, and we can't give guarantees for these bad claims other than by law. And this law must lay down some fundamental principles. And the one we have proposed sets out these principles well enough. This is mainly the principle of evaluation, the principle of the transposition process and so on. I'm glad you brought up Cimos. These types of agencies, not other than a special management company, but one other company, which is just like that connected to Kad, does not want to participate in this recapitalisation and uses all possible means to avoid this because it protects its narrow financial interest. And the decision we took at the government was conditional, we are prepared to go into this recapitalisation if others go along with it and if the banks do what you talked about, participate in the reprogram and so on. And it's not clear whether it's gonna be there or not. I don't know if there are such institutions where, on the one hand, you sometimes tell me that I have an impact on them, but that I have full control over them, and on the other hand, even where even as a government, we assess that it is a good project, that it is a meaningful recapitalisation, that it is a meaningful measure, that they do not want to participate and that we cannot actually force them to do so. This could be more in the national interest than the ownership of a bank. In the absence of these solutions, it is said that without this law, we need a legal basis to deal with the transfer of these claims. If this law falls, it is a matter of the rules of the referendum legislation, if we are able to put an equivalent legal basis into the procedure in the National Assembly at all. I'm sure you've all read the rules very carefully, and there are other laws, and you've been looking for reasons to tell us, "you can't make a law that regulates similar matters in a similar way." Because otherwise than in a similar way, they cannot be arranged. Except in this way, which you are always advocating to recapitalise this bank seven more times with state money, we make a system of state banks, 3, 4, with a 70 % financial sum and then lend loans to domestic economic mega-combinations that will export under international agreements with some friendly countries. We had a system like this, and I wouldn't want us to go back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please. You have about half a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Minister, I am not an expert in finance, but I am a member of the National Assembly, who is trying to be taught by livestock, which means a certain solution to banking as well. It is very clear to me that if the profession says that we can recapitalise the bank with the sums of €800 million to €1.2 billion, it is very clear to me that the 5 billion you are proposing is too much. On the other hand [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u35	That was half a minute, Mr. Weber. We are now continuing the debate on Article 52 or the amendment. Minister, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u36	I'll just say one sentence. I wish that when you say the word profession, you'd rather say this and this expert said that and that. There are also other experts who have said other things, there are some experts or people with PhDs from the economy, I don't know if this is the definition of an expert, but with some knowledge from the economy, they are also employed by the Ministry of Finance, one of them is serving as a minister, I would like to have as much time and good will as you devote to tripartite articles by an economist, devote yourself to what we explain, and try to compare yourself. However, I am sure that you are able and willing to do so, consider and consider the arguments of both sides. But it's not that you keep referring to just one argument and saying that everyone else obviously doesn't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I think we can move on to Article 58. We have an amendment tabled, namely the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups. I'm asking those present if anyone wants to discuss it. I do not see a desire to discuss it, so we will also conclude the debate on this article or the amendment to this article. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on these amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Point, it's on a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the law to balance public finances. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Dr Šuštersič is here with us again to further explain the bill. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u38	Your Honor! The basic objective of the proposal for amending the law is to reimburse pension and disability benefits for those beneficiaries who have actually been included in compulsory pension insurance and for which contributions to the general Republic's pension and disability funds of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have also been actually paid. The content of the Act is amended in such a way that a new category of beneficiaries will be added, which will be excluded from the reduction of pensions provided for in Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act from the implementation of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report, I give the floor to Mrs Mag. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I welcome the Minister of Finance and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 39th urgent meeting on 1 December, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 31st ordinary meeting of 12. 11. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments to Articles 1 and 2. Within the deadline of business, the members of the Group of Positive Slovenia and the SD and the Coalition's parliamentary groups tabled amendments to Article 1. Mr Peter Pogačar, Director-General of the Labour Relations and Rights Directorate of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Mr Samo Dijak, Representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs said that the aim of the amendment of the law is to recover pension and disability benefits under special conditions for beneficiaries of pension work to take account of periods of retirement period up to 31. 3. In the case of insurance undertakings in other republics, the former SFRJ and the exercise of those rights in accordance with Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1. The category of debtors that the proposed law provides as an exception was included in the compulsory pension insurance and paid contributions to the general Republic pension and disability funds in the former SFRJ. He also explained that we are bound by individual social agreements concluded with the other countries of the former SFRJ, and the obligation to take over the rights and duties of succession is also based on the Basic Constitutional Charter of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their opinion and drew attention to their comments in the opinion on the relationship between international agreements and domestic law and the open procedure of Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances before the Constitutional Court and the open proceedings before the SPIZ. He also drew attention to the important role played by STIZ in the amendment of the law in particular with regard to agreements under which Slovenia assumed the obligation to pay the difference between workers who acquired part of the pension age from insurance holders in other republics of the former SFRJ, which made it impossible to reduce these pensions by citing the non-payment of PSIZ contributions. The debate took place on Article 1 and the amendments tabled thereto. Certain members and members of the Committee considered, inter alia, that the aim of the novel should be to recover pension and disability benefits under specific conditions for all beneficiaries and the exercise of those rights in accordance with Article 232 of the STIZ-1. The rights to an annual allowance and the exercise of a right in the amount set out in Article 136.b of the ZPIZ-1 shall be returned before the entry into force of the ZUJF. Some proposed a 5% reduction in pensions for all beneficiaries under Article 232 of the ZPIZ. They considered that this would eliminate the unequal treatment of individual beneficiary groups. Others said that Article 143 of the ZUJF provides for a partial reduction in those pensions and other pension and disability benefits, which under Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1 constitute an obligation of the State budget and are regulated by specific rules. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As the draft law on the labour market has not been adopted by the amendments to the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee to the National Assembly, it is proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We begin by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group is first on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u42	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When we passed the Public Finance Balance Act in the spring, we made every effort to share the burden of the crisis as widely as possible among all social groups. That this burden of crisis would not be borne by just one social group, but by every relative share. And part of the burden of this crisis also fell on the pensioners. Those who have slightly higher pensions have had to take on greater burdens, those who have lower pensions have taken on the smaller burden of the crisis that is affecting us. Of course, the question here is whether this is fair. Justice criteria are probably very different. What is just for me may not be for someone else, because for those who were deprived of part of their pension, this arrangement was most likely unfair. For those who have very low pensions, less than 600 euros, which have not been deprived of anything, this solution is likely to be fair. But if we keep talking about it, we probably won't get to the bottom of it, because everyone will insist on their own. When we tried to find things that could be reduced to those who have slightly higher pensions and also take on a slightly higher burden of the crisis, we touched or went on to apply budget supplements to pensions. One of the groups, quite large, about 8 000 citizens, is also a group of those who worked in the former republics of the common country and who, in one way or another, paid into some of them, pension funds. When our common former country collapsed, of course, these individuals were not responsible, nor were they responsible, and our Slovenia has therefore taken over part of this burden of the collapse of the common country and has also paid a certain portion of the pension from the budget to those individuals who worked in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. As I said, there are about 8,000 of these, and with this law before us today, we are returning the budget part of the pension. The new Slovenia will, of course, support this correction of the Public Finance Balance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleague in front of me was talking about the criterion of justice. I will say that something is very wrong with the country when the one with austerity hysteria begins to interfere with the rights of pensioners acquired, selectively and with the breath of unconstitutionality. I wonder, indeed, this is the direction in which our country or our society should develop. I don't agree to such a criterion of justice. Nobel laureate Stiglitz says, among other things, "There is no case in the world where a sick country recovers from salary cuts, pensions and social transfers." The practice of countries that have been saved for a long time by savings shows that it is primarily measures that place the burden of the crisis on the socially weak. They are uncritically destroying the social state and increasing social stratification. With the basic government Zuyfa, honourable coalition Members, as far as you are here today, you have not done just that, discriminatoryly, just for some, you have intervened in rights, in a way that does not provide legal protection, which should be the foundation of a modern rule of law democratic state. Let me remind you of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which says: "To avoid any evidence of arbitrariness and inequality before the law, we propose that the proposer should explain in this context why he proposes the removal of only some pensions from this measure." The Constitutional Court has taken the view that, as a consequence, the category of pensioners has been prevented from applying legal remedies against the decisions taken by the State. And you know, the principle of legal certainty or the rule of law is characterized by the prohibition of the retroactive application of laws or the effect of legal acts. The protection of acquired rights and the protection of trust in law are significant. How can anyone here who has confirmed disproportionate interference with the rights of 26,000 pensioners talk about the rule of law, social security and citizens' rights? To begin with, honourable Members of the Government, you have reached 26 thousand pensioners to reduce their pensions to a quarter. I didn't get any letters, but I believe I wasn't the only one who was hurt by the letters of the pensioners. Of all the letters, there is disappointment, sorrow and despair. Let me remind you what it looks like erasing superstandard pensions. Just for instance. Pensioners whose pension has exceeded 933 euros by 3 euros have been reduced by 200 euros. To a pensioner who used to be a coal worker, according to you, you have reduced the so-called superstandard pension – €741 by €100 – to €641. Slovenia found itself in a crisis after 20 years of independence. This crisis appears to be a crisis of the social and legal state and I hope to say, on this and also on new solutions, that government policy by dividing people causes a crisis of values. Since I am time-consumingly limited to touching only the law or the whole procedure around Zujf's corrections, even though you initially said how fair the law is, how it does not cause injustices, it was subsequently shown that the law actually causes injustices, unlawful interference with the rights already acquired, and that they also fail to bear the excuse that the government should only reduce those pensions that are not based on the contributions paid. Yes, it is a witness of the amendment of the law that we are talking about today, because it has been shown what we have pointed out in the Positive Slovenia Group that you are inadmissibly encroaching on the rights granted to Slovenian pensioners under the then applicable legislation. If we tried in Positive Slovenia to correct the injustices for all those who were wronged, this time you rejoined the correction of the injustices selectively. For only 8,000 pensioners, you're correcting the wrongs. And I'm going to remind you where the 4,000 pensioners are, just in case they have the same contributions that were employed in the services of the former Yugoslav People's Army. You don't make amends for those wrongs. Because of this selectivity in Positive Slovenia, we will not support the law in such a form.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u46	All welcome, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister, distinguished co-worker from the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members! When we considered the draft amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act as the position of the parliamentary groups, we drew attention in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to a special group of pensioners who had been reduced, even though they had paid their contributions. With this change that we are considering today, we are eliminating the anomaly. Pensioners who have been insured in the republics of the former Yugoslavia until 31 March 1992 will thus be eliminated from negative coordination and will continue to receive the pension at the level decided upon. We have already announced this change in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič and the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u48	Your Honor, hello! At the time of the hearing of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have pointed out that the Law on the Balance of Public Finance is imbalanced both in terms of interference with specific areas and also in terms of the consequences that the implementation of the law will have for the majority of the population and residents of our country. We also assessed that, in particular, Article 143 of the Savings Act, in a selective, discriminatory and even unconstitutional way, affected the acquired rights of insured persons, so we prepared a double amendment of the law or Article 143 together with colleagues from Positive Slovenia. You know how to deal with this law. It was rejected at first reading. That adjustments to the savings law in the work relating to the reduction of pensions under special conditions were needed, you also identified colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. In this way, you should prepare appropriate solutions to Article 143 of the ZUJF, which we all looked forward to and received only in October of this year. We Social Democrats have been and remain in the position that no amendment to Article 143 of the ZUJF, which preserves selective discriminatory and unconstitutional treatment of pension beneficiaries under special conditions, is acceptable to us. In particular, I would point out that all the arguments you have cited regarding this selection have been arbitrary, without real grounds, which you have obviously missed in considering the current law. You have released from consideration an entire group of military pensioners who, like this category that we are talking about today and you are exempting it, have been paying for their entire working time. In short, you correct further injustices with injustices. Social Democrats believe that the Government, through the proposal for a solution brought by the current novel, preserves injustices and saves only the situation of a very large group of pensioners, 8 000 beneficiaries who have worked in other republics and paid pension contributions. As has already been said, it also releases some others who have done the same. By means of a proposal to supplement the ZUJF, the Government is correcting direct unconstitutionality as it notes in its explanatory statement that the contributions to these pensions have been paid. It also notes in its explanatory statement that, with individual social agreements or international agreements concluded with the other republics of the former SFRJ, it has itself undertaken an obligation towards these pensioners, which, of course, is now instrumental. The Government's proposal to exempt beneficiaries who worked in companies established in other republics from the reduction of pensions is thus only partially correcting the injustice caused to beneficiaries referred to in Article 143. However, it does not exclude another 20,000 pensioners whose pensions will continue to be reduced, pensioners whose material rights and human dignity will continue to be violated. Following the consideration of the proposal to supplement the ZUJF on the Committee on Finance, the Social Democrats tried to re- table an amendment that would correct this error, but of course we failed again. Given that we have a fundamental starting point, which we have always advocated not to support proposals which are contrary to the Constitution, we have also not supported the proposal of the National List, which provided for a linear reduction of 5 % of pensions for all beneficiaries under Article 232 of the ZPIZ, whose pensions are expected to exceed EUR 622. In any event, we hope that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is supposed to challenge Article 143, will be decided by absolute priority – I do not know what this means, "absolutely," for the past three months, and that we have been awaiting an assessment – and have confirmed that the Government has intervened in the rights conferred on it under this Article in a constitutionally unacceptable manner. As has already been said, for principle reasons, because we respect the Constitution, we will not support the Social Democrats of the government proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič and the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to Article 143 of the ZUJF is certainly the content in which Members should show more uniformity, more willingness to find an acceptable solution. To know this and to be able to do it, we have shown it several times in this debate room. In the Civil Gazette, we regret that, in the case of this article's amendment, it has been shown that politics is not a problem to know but to want to. That the solutions adopted in Article 143 are not appropriate, many proposals after amendments have been tabled in the legislative procedure both by the opposition and the Government. From July until today, however, we had just the opportunity to get to know one of those individuals directly affected by the measures. From their stories, we can conclude that the infringements already obtained in the area of pensions were not balanced, were not temporary, were not evenly distributed among all beneficiaries and therefore not just. At the July meeting of the National Assembly, the Government called on the Government to examine the effects of the ZUJF in practice and prepare appropriate solutions if it turns out that corrections are necessary. The government has done so, has drawn up a proposal that saves only one category of beneficiaries. All the opposition's proposals so far have gone in the direction of deleting the entire 143rd article in order to completely eliminate the austerity effects. Not all of these proposals were acceptable for the National List because they went to one extreme or another. We have therefore prepared our proposal for a solution in the form of an amendment to the home committee. We have proposed that all the beneficiaries referred to in Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1 be reduced evenly by 5% of the amount of the pension provided by the State. This would eliminate the unequal treatment of individual beneficiary groups, would be fair and balanced with other reductions made by the ULJF and would maintain the savings effects to the same extent as planned under the current Article. In the Civil Gazette, we have done everything we can to harmonise the proposal within the coalition, and unfortunately we have not been successful in doing so. And our solution on the parental committee has not been adequately supported. The treatment of ZIPRS has once again shown an opportunity to remedy these irregularities, so once again we have tabled an amendment with the same solution, which was not feasible due to procedural irregularities. So today, before we decide to support or not support a government proposal that only partially solves the problem and causes additional imbalances. As we have now exhausted all procedural options for our solution to receive sufficient support, we have decided, after careful consideration in the Group of Members, to support this Government proposal. This will eliminate at least one round of beneficiaries, which accounts for almost 8,000 individuals, disproportionate and unfair reductions in pensions. However, we call on both the Government and all parliamentary groups to reconsider the possibility of adopting a comprehensive solution that on the one hand would treat all beneficiaries equally and still provide an appropriate austerity effect. Ideological criteria are not acceptable to us. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that such a solution is possible, and we still believe that, as responsible politicians one day, we will only be able to come together on this subject if not before, and in the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we want to decide as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u52	Once again a good day to all, Your Honor! The Public Finance Balance Act was one of the biggest assets of this mandate and was also the first step towards consolidating public finances. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we later openly admitted that there had been a mistake in reducing certain pensions, which were not entirely or partly based on paid contributions. In view of the specific arrangements in the former common country, the payments made by employees in other republics were paid to the general Republic pension and disability funds in the former SFRJ. Individuals were not even affected by where they were assigned a pension contribution. In practice, they have fulfilled all the conditions required of them, but they are not guilty of not being mutually regulated. Although there are certain individual social agreements, the obligation of rights and obligations arises from the Basic Constitutional Charter. However, although a little late, the coalition is correcting the irregularity of this law, at the same time reminds us once again that we have not pushed anyone into social distress at the time of the pension intervention, since we have not touched on pensions below 600 euros, irrespective of their background. Let me remind you, there are over 350 thousand of those who receive amounts below this limit, and we talk too little about them. For a year we have been arguing about special pensions over this law, even though we have been reducing these incomes in proportion and sticking to the principle that those with the highest pensions also contribute more to saving. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not deny that there are also possibilities for individual cases where there were specific circumstances which caused some to be unduly disadvantaged for a certain part of the income. For these cases, there are pension and disability insurance services as well as other relevant institutions. The Slovenian People's Party will certainly respect their decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak is also on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you for your word and once again a very warm greeting. In the third place, after the adoption of the basic law on the balance of public finances, we have to deal with its amendment relating to pensions under Article 232 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. This time, thirdly, the solution, according to our assessment, is acceptable, acceptable both in terms of justice and in terms of the state's public finances. The solution to the reduction of pensions under the basic law for the balancing of public finances excludes those pensioners who have been employed throughout their working life and who have been employed in part or all of the period in other republics of the then common country. Thus, as workers, these pensioners paid contributions for their own work. To repeat the already stated position of the Group on the reduction of pensions with the so-called Savings Act. Our generally accepted position was, and is still, at the time of the adoption of this law, that austerity measures can affect the area of pensions only in the part where pensions are not due to paid contributions from the past work and are above average. This is also followed by this bill under consideration today, thus eliminating the disproportionate or, if you want, unfair action towards this category of pensioners, as we have also pointed out in the Democratic Party of Pensioners. This proposal will be supported by the Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We are aware, however, that this will not eliminate all the anomalies that have proved to be at the time of the adoption and implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act. We expect the Government to continue to address the injustices to the other categories under Article 143 of the ZUJF, but this time we hope that without ideological division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakič, now if you want to discuss with Mrs Plevčakovo, you can talk somewhere else and there is no room here. We are now moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. This debate will be held on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 14. 12. 2012. Before we begin this debate, I would once again warn everyone who would like to discuss the amendment exclusively. This is an amendment relating to the entry into force of this Act and I ask all debaters to adhere to the contents of the amendment within the time available. Now I am opening the time to report to the debate on Article 2 where we have tabled an amendment to the coalition parliamentary groups. We've got four applications. Here you go, Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll discuss the amendment. The amendment speaks of when this law should enter into force, if I understand correctly. And I ask the Government why this validity, given that it always has these desires for retroactivity, why this law does not come into force in return. Why don't you settle these anomalies back from May of the month when you've all found that you unfairly took a part of your salary, even up to 30%? Why is it with 1. 1. However, if you have found that in the interim period you stole from them? That's right. You robbed these people. And now you realize you've been stealing them for six months, seven months, and now you're going to give them back so very vehemently. As much demagogy as was here today in the presentation of positions, I have never heard of it. You know what we're talking about today? That we cut somebody's hand off, and today we sew his finger back on. You've cut off 26,000 people and today you're suing the right back to 4,000 people. Demagogy! And that's why I told you that when you said we were correcting the anomaly. Who accepted this anomaly? You've accepted it! You have accepted this injustice that you have committed to 26,000 people, and now you are dragging yourself out that you are benevolent when you return this right 4 thousand years ago. Aren't you ashamed?Oh, my God! You robbed people of what they earned with their work. They didn't get the lottery. People have been making contributions to pension and disability insurance, and they don't need your charity. They're demanding the legitimate money that's theirs. The money that was paid into the pension and disability fund during the period of work, and we cut it off with some guy named Zujf. And so I must say that I am very disappointed with the explanations you had today, when you washed yours, knowing that you have actually wronged people.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u57	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please. Are you going to report for procedural? Now I ask you to first state which article or what your procedural proposal is and then explain it later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. If, too, I prefer to explain my procedural proposal first and then make a procedural proposal, allow the president to do just that, because the colleague told me very clearly before me that it would be reasonable to get an answer from the opposition, in particular the opposition Members, given that the government coalition has drafted an amendment, why the law has entered into force for the first time, it is with 1. One, and not back. I would also like to draw attention in this procedural proposal to speakers in the presentation of positions who have made it very clear that interventions have been made in the rights of pensioners who were not righteous. According to this, the rights of pensioners with the ZUJF were not fair. In particular, this was said by the representative of the National Gazette, and I am interested in why you do not correct unfair acts. Why do you not change the date of entry into force under this second Article with the start of the first ZUJF, which has actually caused injustice? My procedural proposal is that the Minister, who is with us today, answers this question, because this is also subject to further discussion. However, I believe that this is an essential answer at this time, given that we Members are very limited in time in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u59	Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, I must warn you, this was indeed a question for the Government or the Minister, but this was certainly not a procedural proposal in accordance with the rules of procedure in force. When the Minister wants to, he can still appear as part of the remaining time available to the government, and now you have the floor to discuss. You don't want to. You're giving up. Procedurally, Mrs. Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. But I was amazed to hear your previous performance and I would ask you nicely if you could explain to me where the Rules of Procedure say how the Member should raise a procedural question. I went just in case to look at Article 69, which speaks about this issue and says, "A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, the procedural question that the President should ask as soon as he so requests. The speech of this Member shall not last more than 3 minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." Please tell me where it is written in the Rules of Procedure that Members must first provide a procedural proposal and then an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u61	You have rightly concluded that the use of the Rules of Procedure during the meeting of the National Assembly shall be decided by the President. I am not obliged to explain anything to you, but I want to calm the situation, but I tell you that, at the time of this function, I have also been taught that there is a so-called parliamentary practice and that this is part of parliamentary practice. I am closing this debate now and moving on to the debate. Mag. Barbara Zgyner Tavsh says she won't discuss it. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u62	Madam President, I myself will join the conclusion of my colleague Jakič that the time set out in this amendment should change back. But while we're on time, you know, this government obviously doesn't care when and how. It's a violation of the constitution, of colleagues and of colleagues in the coalition! But I know why it's on the agenda today. Not because you found out you were wrong to do something wrong. No, no, no. The constitutional lawyers, who have been waiting three months to decide something, have taught you correctly that the international conventions adopted by this country and the government, in which many of those who run this government today, have then promised their citizens who worked in the republics of other countries that their rights will be the same in the new country. And that's the most constitutionally controversial. All the other things you've done with this Zuyfu are constitutionally controversial. But this will be explained by the Constitutional Court by the time it comes. That's why you rushed today, and that's why it's a shame. We allow these people to get their normal pensions back, but we cannot agree to this practice that you have chosen. This is a disgrace — a violation of the Constitution at every turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would have disputed the date of its entry into force myself. If you are so righteous, then draw this righteousness away from the time you have established injustice. And not just those pensioners, but the other pensioners. The Basic Constitutional Charter or the Law on the Implementation of the Fundamental Constitutional Charter in Article 18 states: "The Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of the rights of fighters, military disabled persons, members of families of fallen fighters and beneficiaries of military pensions with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia to the extent and under the conditions laid down by the rules of the SFRJ pending the implementation of this Act." And in the case of these pensioners we are talking about today, also social agreements and international rules. Colleagues and colleagues, we move around, every step of the way makes a fool out of the constitution. What do you see people looking at us? Are we going to keep this up? A colleague from Dessus said she expected us to fix the rest of the injustices. If so, then let us reject this law, and tomorrow let us put in a new one who will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to this article? There's no desire to discuss it anymore. Since there is no desire to discuss it, I conclude it and we will decide on this amendment in half an hour in the framework of the vote. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. As we say, we continue the meeting in half an hour, that's 12:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u66	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda, this is the urgent procedure by considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2, which proposes the coalition SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 66 Members and Members voted against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. We move on to the next amendment tabled. The proposed amendment to Article 5 is the Group of the Social Democrats. Here you are, Mr Janko Weber, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. As a parliamentary group, we have decided to table an amendment to Article 5, because we are assessing that a government proposal defining a two-year period in which it retains the country's voting rights in the bank when it has a majority share is too short in our opinion. We believe that the five-year period is more appropriate because everything that is happening in the economy and banking, which is short-term and is not considered to have some long-term healthy consequences for the development of the economy, can lead to new issues and new problems. The country's voting rights in banks are of great importance to us, and we still can't get rid of the feeling that the government is deliberately delaying both by this law, for almost a year now, and even on the fact that it is already decided that the re-appointed foreigners will be on the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, and the state will not be able to cooperate in this way in order to oppose it. Although, as we have heard from the Minister of Finance today, it doesn't really matter whether the state could have voting rights or not, because the position of the Minister was clear, let's leave the management of the national bank to foreigners, and that's the only solution. This can only be understood in view of the fact that the sole objective is to sell 100 % of the sale of banks, which means truly extremely severe long-term consequences for the development of the economy and thus economic growth in Slovenia and the resolution of all those obligations that we have towards our citizens and citizens, when we have to ensure adequate, if you want, child protection, to all other matters related to the provision of funds from the state budget and that we then ensure an appropriate standard for all those living in Slovenia. These voting rights over a five-year period are, in our view, an extremely thoughtful decision, so that I hope that this amendment will be adopted and that there will also be an important consensus and agreement within Parliament, both between the opposition's position and the coalition, that our common interest is a deliberate resolution of banks and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we are moving to a vote on the amendment of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the amendment to Article 5 has not been adopted. We continue to vote on the amendment to Article 52. It was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Does anyone want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 58. It was tabled by the coalition SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS, NSI. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 4. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 58 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. Please, you have the floor. There are no amendments. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment of the law has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with item 5 of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance, the reduced procedure. We will first decide on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 14. 12. 2012 to Article 2(2). Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI to Article 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the amendment to Article 2 has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I see that there is no need for further discussion. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm sorry, I see a desire to explain my voice. First of all, explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. The first shall have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u69	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. As it is said, the Social Democrats of this law will not be supported because you continue to act in contra-constitutional ways and cause new injustices. I predict, however, that we will re-introduce the bill on Article 143, which will regulate matters in a constitutional way as is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. We will not support such a bill in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We have made it very clear that we do not agree to redistribution among pensioners. While it is true that the law corrects the injustices of 8 thousand pensioners, those pensioners whom we have already warned about when the basic government law on the balance of public finances was passed, such interventions are not permissible because they indicate unconstitutionality. It's an intervention in already allocated rights back, and it's discriminatory. To some of the pensioners you have granted rights, to other pensioners who were not in love with you, you have not recognized these rights. And that's just not right. Today, all together, even government coalition MPs admit that a mistake has been made. But you're not correcting this mistake completely and you're not correcting it backwards. This also indicates the amendment you have tabled to the basic amendment of the law, which does not delay the deadline for the adoption of the basic government law on the balance of public finances. It is said that, in the interim period, these 8,000 pensioners will still be deprived of the right they must have. That is why I say that such a law is not good and it is not right for us to agree in the National Assembly to re-marriage solutions which indicate unconstitutionality or which do not comply with the applicable legislation. Well, not just that. The next fact to be recalled is that there are still thousands of pensioners who simply do not want to touch your solutions and you do not hear these warnings. The citizens' list, specifically the president of this list received a very clear call with a request to resolve the issue for 4 thousand pensioners who were employed in JLA services. That's when he made a promise. But there is no promise in this government law, and they also paid contributions to the pension fund. I simply do not agree to this political cynicism in this way because it is unacceptable and because it casts a bad light on the entire Slovenian policy. As my colleague has said before me, in Positive Slovenia we are also predicting that we will introduce a just law. We've tried twice, and I hope so, because they say it's good to go to third. We will not support such a proposal on the table today in the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The first one has the word Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u73	I'll support the marriage. The parliamentary group will also support the law, although we are still not satisfied with the solution. Since the summer, we have been working hard to bring this 143rd Article of the ZUJF into some righteous framework. Therefore, the Civil Code has also tabled an amendment to this law or to a government amendment, but this amendment has not been sufficiently supported by the committee. So our party, our Group of Members, has done everything in our power, but unfortunately, has not been accepted. Sorry, it wasn't accepted. One part of the problem is this law, which we are adopting today, is solving, and injustice remains, and I believe it will be resolved by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to explain my vote on this change of law. First of all, I will vote in favour of the amendment. I will vote because this amendment removes the error of a certain number of pensioners who have been wronged by the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. Of course, I expect or also refer to a minister who is not here at the moment to make a proposal to amend the law for all the other pensioners who have been affected, as was already promised when we found out. This is about the mistakes and the damage we have caused, the discrimination of fighters, internationalists and other structures, JLA employees, police officers who were then employed throughout our Yugoslavia in other republics, customs officers and so on. This has already been said today that we have violated the law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a matter of unconstitutionality, and I expect and appeal to the Government to put an end to this and correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you. At first glance, though, it shows that we are partly doing away with the wrongs, but it is only in appearance. I cannot support this simply because I have repeatedly said that I will never vote in this House for what is illegal and unconstitutional. And here no one has explained to me why these pensions have been nationalized, which you find wrong. For six months we took people's pensions. If we brought this back to at least this part of the pensioners, I'd vote in favour. For all those who are also speaking today as to how injustices are and so on in this 143rd article, let me just remind you that we have tabled proposals three times, twice legal and even under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the following year, you have not supported. Please, let's not get carried away, let's put this thing back in order to end this 143rd article, because, in fact, once again, I repeat, it has caused more damage than it will do to the financial benefits. When we talk about financial benefits, they cannot be above human rights and cannot be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I've been trying to show plastic today what we're doing, and I'm gonna say it again. In a living body, if these are pensioners, we cut off someone's hand with this controversial article when we hit 26,000 pensioners. Now you want to sew your finger on that stick and expect a man to be grateful to you and that man will be happy about it. On the contrary! And that's why I don't understand, and I don't see this light at the end of the tunnel, which some people are talking about, how we're all trying. I don't know who's trying. I really don't know who's trying because there's no effect. If it were true and we didn't say anything, but did do something else, then at the beginning we wouldn't have accepted such a disputed Zujf and, secondly, if it were to rain down on you that you did wrong and defrauded people, we would have to support the law that we filed with the SD, where we tried to eliminate the injustice of 26,000 people. And now, to refer to this, those who have always talked about giving everything to the Constitutional Court in such a manner and so, in order for the Constitutional Court to judge, I find it extremely unrealistic, given that we do not have to wait for the Constitutional Court to do so. We would support the law, support the abolition of this disputed article 143, and really restore to the people the right they had because of the work they had done in life. I will vote against, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much. It's still an interest and I'm opening up an application to explain my voice. The application shall be made. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! Of course, there's some demagogism in this marriage. Many professions and works have been listed, but you have all forgotten to mention a farmer, a farmer and a worker. What you're saying and making a demagogy is these 26 grand, all of which have over 600 euros in pension. That's the basics. Over 350 thousand have pensions below 600 euros. You're not worried. What about the 13,000 you took from the so-called State Pensions Act in the previous government? How long has it been? How many did they have? A thousand 800 euros. Yeah, I'm sorry. I was wrong about one zero. So 180 euros, a little over 180 euros. So we can cut through the living body, and some things, and others, as some have expressed themselves, finger. God help! You brought us into this catastrophic state of debt 8.7 billion in the previous term. We all suffer now, but the farms are the most because they have nothing. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, you're signing up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u83	Unfortunately, I will have to vote against it, although I think that this group of people urgently needs this money, not for the advance, but for the back. Why am I voting against it? We talked to colleagues and colleagues before, and my colleague Kavticnik said to me, "You know, people don't understand against the Constitution, against the law, as we might understand. Let's put this more precisely, let's say that the Constitution is written to defend not only legality, but justice." Therefore, we are for righteousness to be returned to all those who have been harmed. Are they fighters, or are they military pensioners, or are they ex-cops, or are they disabled, or are people who have been victims of Dachau processes worth less than everyone else? Colleagues and colleagues, don't get carried away and say, "Yes, we support them, of course, but we will vote in favour. And the last time it was the same, we'll vote in favour." Yeah, people aren't that stupid! That is why I call on all those who think in their souls that it is just us who are discussing today to press the "against" button and find a better solution for everyone together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in explaining the voice in my own name, so I am opening the application. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u85	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'm not going to support this half proposal myself. However, I must say what greatly disturbed me, in particular the discussions of the coalition: "We are aware that those who have been injured will be given their right in court or in the Constitutional Court, if not before, in the European Court of Justice." I hope you're listening to what you're saying to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Somehow, I was sure or expected that this disputed law, at least in this part, which is working retroactively on the dosage of the pension, would be rectified. It was an opportunity, an opportunity to make amends in such a way that these injustices would be done to all the affected. But today you're talking about that there were 26,000 pensioners, and today there are only 8,000. However, even if it is 8,000 pensioners who have been wronged retrogradely, this marriage is unacceptable to me. It is unacceptable because so many times the practice of working against the Constitution is illegal to ask the question of the rule of law or the rule of law, so that even in this case I cannot agree and cannot support such a law that would cause injustice or act unlawfully. You have not been able to do enough power, energy or innovation to correct this remaining part of the pensioners who have been wronged in this case. Waiting for the next opportunity is again questionable, as was the hope and expectation that this will now be done, but you have not done so. In this case, I absolutely cannot support this precisely because of the injustices caused by Article 143 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will not support this bill. It has been told many times, saving seemingly only one group, not entirely because the date of implementation is problematic because it does not fix all the time. It is also true that I did not support the amendment to the Committee on Finance, which was tabled by the Civil Gazette, because that proposal was not such as to be legally pure, but also made differences. Apparently, it was based on a 5% reduction. That 5% is always suing. But there's something else I'd like to say. We are in the pre - festive time, which will be very tragic for a number of people, and especially for children, because they live in families, especially single - parent families, where income is scarce and they will not be able to enjoy as much as other children will. But what I've come to think about is that there's a lot of low-income people under 622 euros. But are we aware that full-time workers also receive the minimum wage, which is a net payment of €572, and that they still have children to care for and a family. We can't solve all the problems with this marriage. However, the ruling set should be heard a little more by those who tell them that saving does not bring new jobs. You didn't, a respected coalition, tell us how many new jobs you've created with this saving. Just cut them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I still see a desire to explain my voice. Path login. The first is Mr Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. There are three facts. One is that it is a recognized injustice or a mistake. And the other two, that this mistake doesn't fix everything and not the back. This is somehow not acceptable to save in this way in our country and I will vote against it. But I'd say there's so much illogicality and deception that I understand that it's driving people on the streets. And in doing so, I would warn you to take responsibility for these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Although it seems logical to me that we are also saving 8,000 pensioners, but this selective approach is only a blow to certain groups. I had an interview with certain military elders who were severely affected. Everyone has lost almost 350 euros, the ones with higher spells, and I cannot accept such a proposal. In particular, I think it is wrong that more or less everywhere the Government applies a linear approach, that is to say, to all equally reduce, Members, etc. But here was really the purpose of just arresting people and hitting on this group, if you want, partisans, Yugoslav people, etc. I believe, and I hope, that Mr Virant, who has promised that this will be improved, I see him, I see him, I see that he also feels a great deal of guilt, that for the first time he has not gone through, that this, if not, will be resolved by the Constitutional Court. But people said they were ready to go to the European Court of Justice. Here we have to ask ourselves whether this country, citizens and citizens really have to pay the price for this stubbornness that someone is causing. That's how we pay for eraseds, so we pay here. As a matter of fact, no one is responsible. That's what I think is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We conclude with an explanation of vote. There's still a desire to explain. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you. I'm going to try to be very brief, and I'm going to remind you all that we're celebrating a state holiday of independence and unity. We have added unity because we have truly resisted the aggressor as one and have conquered Slovenia. What celebration will be held this year when you have eliminated a whole range of people who have been willing to sacrifice their lives for our independence and unity? I will vote against this law because it preserves this discrimination. And even if the new law that we have announced is being introduced, we must be aware that, given that the law or the two-year budget has already been adopted, which means that we can only deal with this in two years. And we will consider introducing a law that will regulate the matter backwards, because in our constitution, we believe that there remain sound grounds for us to resolve the matter in return. So I will vote against this law and I propose that you reject this law and that as soon as possible, in this year, let us resolve this problem in an extraordinary session in a way that we can celebrate our holiday together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 34. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a preliminary proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the 2006 Amended International Convention on Standards of Training, the issuance of evidence and the ship's watchdogs, 1978. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly.The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 81 votes in favour, none against. (The vote was 81.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendments to the Convention on International HYDROGRAPHICAL ORGANISATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present and 79 votes against. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, it's an evocative bill on the ratification of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South-East Europe. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on free trade between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Republic of Korea on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Republic of Korea on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. (The vote was 82.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on with the 28th. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your personal name? I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Mrs. Alenka Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I like it very much and that I am pleased that some former top athletes are among the proposed members, whose results I greatly appreciate, such as Iztok Chop, Gorazd Stángel and Katja Koren. However, alone and also in Positive Slovenia, we cannot support the proposal. Positive Slovenia also opposed the amendment of the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije, which was adopted by the National Assembly this July at the July meeting for several reasons. The current right to propose members is waived to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Faculty of Sport and the Institute of Sport Planica. In addition, the law does not give national sports associations the opportunity to propose directly to members of the Foundation's Council, since the proposal will be submitted to the National Assembly for decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not by the National Sports Union. I believe that if the Government had good and sincere intentions, the sports associations of their candidates for members of the world would have proposed directly, on their own, without a double political filter. The law does not provide a better solution than the former, existing one. On the contrary. I believe that there will be less transparency and that power will be concentrated in the competent Ministry of Sport. Thus, the law interferes with the independence and independence of the world and establishes the possibility of determining and deciding the right candidates for members of the Council. All of this was pointed out by both national sector associations and the Olympic Committees of Slovenia. This law has also been vetoed by the National Council, so I simply cannot support the members proposed for the Foundation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the proposal for appointment as Director of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia. The government is by letter of 28. 11. 2012 She proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Andrej Kraška be appointed Director of the Public Agency for Competition Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the representative of the Magnificent Government. Joyful Žerjav for further explanation of the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! On the basis of Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Prevention of Restriction on Competition and Article 14, paragraph 5, of the Decision establishing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition and on the proposal of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision proposing that Mr Andrej Krašek be appointed Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, born 15. 8. 1974, for a period of five years with the possibility of reappointment after a re-commitment of a public tender. At the same time, in accordance with the same law, he proposes to the National Assembly that the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition for a period of five years be appointed Mr Tina Zajec and Mr Aleš Kuhar. Let me say that, after a lot of criticism by the OECD and so on, the Office for the Protection of Competition and now the Agency for the Protection of Competition has been humanely fed that we have been employed by the ministry of 12 employees to the Agency at that time. This concludes some human resources reinforcement of this regulator, which is extremely important and in fact enables this regulator to function as effectively as possible. Given that we have found that there are a lot of administrative procedures lagging behind, I do not see, once everything is settled, exactly any possibility or argument that this agency could not function independently and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The Government's proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and mags. Marco Pogačnik. Additional explanations shall be refused. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members or there were none. Here comes the debate. Does the representative of the Government want another word? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Andrej Kraška as Director of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 12th of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members present vote for it. I would like to remind you that in this case the specificity of voting, which is defined only in this law, will therefore be taken if the proposed decision is voted on by the majority of those present, but not by the majority of those identified, which is the general rule in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted by a majority of the votes of the Members present and Members present. We are moving on to the proposal to appoint members to the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. By letter of 28 November 2012, the Government proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition be appointed as a member by Mrs Tina Zajec and by Dr Aleš Kuhar. I give my word to the representative of the Magnificent Government. Radovan Žerjav for an additional explanation of the nomination proposals, which Mr Minister has already learned in his previous explanation. The Government's proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. None of the members of the parliamentary groups want the word. Here comes the debate. I give the word to the government representative if he wants. He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Aleš Kuhar as a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. At the same time, I would like to remind you once again that, in accordance with paragraph 2b of Article 2b of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Tina Zajec as a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 2b of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, a decision will be adopted if the majority of Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the appointment of the Acting President, the President of the Council and the members of the Board of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Proposal for a Decision on the power of the Board of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government is by letter of 6. 12. 2012 She proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Iga Grudn be appointed President of the Administration of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Sam Iršič as President of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and Mr Jan Koblar, Mr Boštjan Kolarič, Mr Jožet Korbar and Mr Roc Prešern as members of the Council. At the same time, the government proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of the Agency should be empowered to conclude an employment contract with the Head of Administration. On the basis of this proposal, the mandate-holder committee submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal for appointments, here to Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Mr Janez Benčina, Acting President of the Management Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, informed the National Assembly and the Government that he had resigned from his position as Acting Officer of his duties, that is. 11th, so that the agency's administration currently consists of the acting officer and member of the administration, Mrs Janja Holcman Babič, and the acting official, member of the administration of mags. Peter Ješovnik. In view of this withdrawal statement and to ensure the smooth functioning of the Agency and its full powers, the Government has proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Ig Grudn be appointed as the new Acting President of the Administration, who will carry out the functions of the President of the Administration until the appointment of the new President with full powers, is to say that he will not be acting as Acting Officer, or until the possible implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act, with which the Agency will cease to exist, and certainly for a period of six months at the most. of 5 12. The members of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia have also resigned and the Government is proposing to the National Assembly to appoint new members, namely Mr Sam Irsic, President of the Council and Mr Boštjan Kolaric, Mr Jožet Korbar, Mr Roc Prešern and Mr Jan Koblar. These appointments will allow the Agency to function smoothly during this transitional period – which, in our opinion, is too long from a decision that has also been confirmed and adopted in the National Assembly to replace the Agency with a State holding company – until this new system is put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The Government's proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Magi shall have the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u103	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal to appoint Mr Iga Gruden. We estimate that it meets all the legal requirements, and above all the personality characteristics ensure that this work will be done properly and professionally. In the SDS Group, we will also support the proposed members in view of the fact that the Council of the Agency has resigned, we are convinced that they comply with the legal requirements and that this appointment is necessary, that the Agency is working smoothly and that no economic damage is done. We will also support the proposal for a decision to authorize the Council of the Agency to sign the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. When we discuss the appointment of the CEO of the Capital Investment Management Agency and the President of the Council and the members of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency, I would like to recall, however, the warnings we gave to the Group at the beginning of this mandate to address the Government's outstanding neoliberal policy. That's when the Prime Minister responded to our warning when we know what it is, what kind of policy it is. Well, look. A crisis is always an opportunity to strike society from all sides. And this crisis can arise either because of the natural disaster, because of the economic crisis or because of political upheaval and the like. We are witnessing an economic crisis in Slovenia. At a time of crisis, governments do what they can not do in normal times: they adopt neoliberal reforms, which means that they reduce the public sector, make the country worse, privatise everything that can be privatised and release the market completely without any restrictions, by opening the way for aggressive capital, extreme exploitation and disaster capitalism. Catastrophes thus become an opportunity to enrich privileged individuals, while everyone else becomes the subject of social experimentation or, in our own words, try out where we can squeeze people to survive. And in such situations, Slovenia today is leading a policy that we can really describe with exactly those words that I have read. It's about neoliberal reforms. There is absolutely no secret in saying that Mr Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, is embodying this policy. If we look at what was going on during this period, this one-year rule. The first step was how to abolish the Capital Investment Management Agency. Let me recall, in the previous mandate, the Agency was established precisely to ensure that the state capital situation has been successfully regulated, that no further exploitation, exhaustion or theft of state property has occurred. And the first goal was to shut down the agency. Since they found that they had not yet produced solutions, the Agency was deprived of its powers — essential powers. So today he has to ask for agreement on any more serious decision by the Government, which is, by the way, also contrary to the European guidelines governing this area of corporate governance. The Slovenian State Holding Act was later established, which with one stroke carries EUR 12.5 billion of assets to the holding company. And that will never be a national asset again. This creates an important path without any significant restrictions to achieve this savage privatisation and the relentless influence of capitalism. This was followed by the Bad Bank Act, which interferes with the private sector in a way that also successful private companies can be resold. During this period, the resignations of the previous members of the Agency, including the President, resulted in the appointment of the incumbent appointed by the current government. And it is also interesting, during this period, even when appointed by the current government, their candidate resigns as the CEO of the Capital Investment Management Agency, for personal reasons, without any more substantial explanation. It is interesting, however, that today a decision is being taken in the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank that new foreigners are coming to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. It is only today that the government proposes to appoint a new perpetrator of duties. So what a sophisticated plan it is to actually carry out the looting of Slovenian property and introduce neoliberal capitalism in Slovenia. We will support the CEO of the Capital Investment Management Agency to at least start functioning this agency, but we will explicitly oppose the world of this agency, which is fully politically constituted and does not have any credibility to appoint competent people in the supervisory boards of companies and banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer and the Positive Slovenia Group have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u107	Your Honor! That there will be no mistake, of course, in Positive Slovenia we were not already for the agency or for AUKN and we are not even today. But today we are dealing with things that are actually kind of doing even a funny thing. The Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the State with the resignation of the President of the Administration Janez Benčina has no legal representative since 30 November. Shortly after his resignation, members of the AUKN Accreditation Group also resigned and then the members of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency resigned. The above-mentioned complications with the AUKN authorities represent the Lakus paper of the corporate governance strategy of the Government. The AUKN does not have a legal representative without the said authorities. Moreover, for some time now it has not been able to carry out its tasks, causing a serious obstacle to the business of companies in which the Agency manages state ownership shares. The last chaotic situation was caused by a coalition, with a pre-adopted amendment to the State Capital Investment Management Act this spring, when the AUKN took away most of its tasks, including the competence to conclude employment contracts with the President and a member of the Agency's administration. This new power was not conferred on any other authority, so the executive of the duties of the President of the Administration ran the AUKN without a contract and free of charge. In addition, the CEO stated for his reasons of resignation that it was mainly a matter of different views on the public property management system and members of the Accreditation Commission stated that they could no longer work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Code. The same applies to members of the Council. But it didn't bother anyone. Not even the minister. The ruling coalition should forget about its staff drill and the appointment of former Members and family members of some public officials in the supervisory boards of companies in which the state has capital investments, and think of the 7 to 9 billion euro of state assets managed by the Agency. The management of billions of assets must not be a hostage or a collateral damage to a coalition human resources wheel. Economic development and related jobs and social security are too important to be left to political clienteleism and nepotism. The current management system resulting from the application of the new Capital Investment Management Act of the State, non-compliance with recommendations of good practice, such as the Corporate Management Code with State stakes and criteria for determining the eligibility of candidates for members of the authorities of these companies, by the ruling coalition constitute an irresponsible economic policy, which, as stated in the Slovenian Supervisory Association, harms companies themselves, all stakeholders of companies and also the development of corporate governance practices in Slovenia. However, it seems that the ruling coalition does not learn anything. Today, by voting on the new members of the AUKN bodies, we will eliminate the current injustice, but it appears that the responsible seats will be largely occupied by candidates who, apart from the fact that they come from or are members of the ruling parties, are not adequately qualified to perform these tasks. And the harmful practice of corporate governance will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. He's cancelling the debate. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak. He doesn't want a word. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek does not. Not Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, either, mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mr Rihar Braniselj do not, nor does Mr Janko Weber. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as managing capital investments is concerned, we can only find out that this country does not have a happy hand here. We have received the report of the Agency for Capital Investment Management on the financial effects of capital investment management in 2010 and 2011. For 2010, the return on capital was markedly low, negative. Instead of an expected 8 or maybe even higher percentage, we experienced more than 3% negative return. This negative return was slightly lower in 2011. However, what is difficult to overlook is the financial effects of government management. In 2011, out of these 7 to 9 billion euro worth of assets — an important part of this being strategic capital investment and even monopolies — the country received a total of EUR 33 and 34 million dividends, with a need to invest EUR 507 million in recapitalisation of this structure. The negative impact in 2011 was more than €470 million. And all those who say that some bad wild governance is going on, that the state budget is being looted, in fact, it is true, because this state property without real stakes – even from the state budget – simply cannot work at all. We would expect to ask for health in 2011 those who led the Capital Investment Management Agency and perhaps even in 2012 at the beginning of the mandate or in this part. There is certainly something to be done in this area, as the human resources structure that managed state assets has absolutely not proved to be in this area. And a responsible government, whatever it may be, should act in this area, and it is very radical. With regard to the proposal before us, I will support it, both in the form of a staff composition, temporary, of course, in the position of President and also in the temporary composition of the Council. I will also support the proposal for a decision which makes it possible at all to operationalise the implementation of activities in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. There is also a possibility of a proposaler, i.e. the Government, but I see that there is no wish. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Ig Grudn as Acting President of the Management Agency for Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the Group Ambassador? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. I already said in the opening recital that we will support Mr Igo Grudn to take on the task of acting as chairman of the Agency's administration, because today the agency is without leadership and today Slovenia does not have an institution, there is no one who can manage 12.5 billion assets or in the case of an agency with 9.5 billion assets. It's that void that the government is using to do what it shouldn't do in normal circumstances, it couldn't have done, and it's not possible for you to do it in some normal situation. In part, by appointing the perpetrator of the obligation, we establish the regulatory function, that is, the Capital Investment Management Agency. However, we expect the perpetrator of his duty to present to us how he sees the management of 9.5 billion assets and whether the only real solution for Slovenia is the 100 % sale of all shares in our most important companies, such as Petrol, Telekom, Triglav and other companies, such as Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, Nova Ljubljanska banka. In short, everywhere where we can influence successful economic development and the growth of gross domestic product. In one year, the Agency, which was established to manage capital investments, was able to prepare exactly all the legal bases for successful management. This has also been demonstrated in practice and in all reports, or it is evident that the increase in the value of Slovenia's assets in all these companies has been increasing, that profitability has been on the rise, throughout the year-and-a-half operation of the agency. Talking about not having happiness is not about happiness. It is a conscious failure of the Agency to continue to manage its work and, above all, to carry out this work without the direct influence of policy. And this is the key to why probably the previous president, who was appointed by the current current policy, resigned and why we are today appointing a new perpetrator of duty. Let me repeat, we will support it, but we expect the Group of Social Democrats to present a view on the management of 9.5 billion assets. We really want to hear how he's going to operate or just support the sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Explanation on its own behalf. I'm opening an application for an explanation. Anybody want a word? I guess not. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 57 votes against 22. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Sam Irsic as President of the Council of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and on the appointment of Mr Jan Koblar, Mr Boštjan Kolarič, Mr Jožet Korbar and Mr Roc Prešern as members of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 18 of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. I am opening an application for explanations on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you. When appointing members to the Council of the Agency, I must say that in the Group of Social Democrats, we will object to the appointment of the candidates proposed by the Government to be appointed by the National Assembly to this important function. Notwithstanding the fact that the current government has taken away important competence from the Council of Agencies and has in fact limited their competence only to appoint a Human Resources Accreditation Council, which chooses people to represent Slovenia or the country in the Supervisory Councils, in the administrations of economic companies. And here we need very competent people. The fact that the current government employs only politically competent people, regardless of their professional competence, regardless of their work experience, is only a continuation of this thinking when we propose candidates who have worked in the field of local self-government, leading public calls, first at the Institute of Dr. Janez Evangelist Krek, then we have a candidate coming from the company Steklarna Rogaška d.d., but engaged in procurement and logistics, between the two units in the company, that delivery was smooth, then we have a candidate who has experience at the National Reconciliation Centre, and forgive, this is not really a reference, with all due respect to the proposed candidates, to be able to form a new staff-accreditation board that has resigned. And how will candidates who will be appointed to the supervisory board of companies be appointed to the administrations of companies that manage huge assets, which must take important business decisions and take responsibility for that? This team, who is appointed here, in our opinion cannot do so, so we will oppose these candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anybody got a wish? If not, then we shall proceed to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 51, for 29. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the majority of all Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision authorising the Council of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia to conclude an employment contract with the Acting President. Procedurally. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you. With regard to the adoption of this Decision, it should be noted, however, that we have been warned by the President of this Commission, Ms Sonja Ramšak, that she cannot put to the vote a decision authorising the Council to conclude a contract of employment with the perpetrator of the duties of the members of the administration, although a coalition member has subsequently come to that vote, and the coalition has voted on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The President, procedurally, I think it would be highly appropriate for us to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service prior to the decision, or for the National Assembly to decide on this decision, which does not have the basis in the applicable legislation governing this area. My procedural question is whether it is possible to obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service before deciding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Janko Weber. In accordance with Article 66(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I have called on the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give us an oral explanation and will give it to us immediately. Here comes Mr. Bozo Strle, Head of the Legal and Legal Service. Here you go, Mr. Lord Strolle, an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! In this short period of time, I have tried to draw up a brief opinion on this matter, which goes like this. The Capital Investment Management Act does not lay down who enters into a contract of employment with the President or the CEO of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The Agency was established under that law as a separate and independent State authority which complies with the provisions of the law to the National Assembly. The Agency’s independence and independence were also exercised under the original arrangements by having the authority to control the Agency’s operations and to comply with the Agency’s annual plan, i.e. the Agency’s internal body. At that time, the Agency’s independence was also governed by a provision expressly excluding the application of Articles 6 and 7 of the Government Act. Article 6 of the Government Act provides that the Government shall exercise the rights and duties that belong to the Republic of Slovenia as the founder of institutions, companies and other organisations, unless otherwise specified by a specific law. This provision of the Government Act would also serve as an appropriate legal basis for the government to conclude a contract of employment if there were no other legal arrangements. However, as stated by that provision for the management of capital provisions, these provisions shall not apply. However, amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act have largely reached out to the extent that the independent, independent status of the Capital Investment Management Agency has still been declared. For the issue that we are addressing, it is particularly important to point out that the competence to control the Agency's operations and to comply with the Agency's annual plan has been transferred from the Council of the Agency to the government. As far as we are aware, informally, of this transfer of supervisory function, the employment contract with the Administration was concluded by the Council of the Agencies, and it is very likely that the application of the company's regulation regarding the conclusion of employment contracts with the Administration was based on the fact that there was no explicit legal basis at that time. In the wake of the amendments to the law, the legal and legal service has drawn attention to certain contradictions between the stated independence and independence of the Agency and changes in the arrangements that have actually affected such status. Such contradictions exist in our view also during the transfer of the supervisory function to the government and the still applicable provision of the law which provides for the termination of application of Articles 6 and 7 of the Government Act. This provision has, in our view, been materially exhausted and should be deleted, which would also address the issues of competence to conclude a contract of employment with the Administration. In our view, however, the law could be interpreted in this sense, but the question of the competence to conclude a contract of employment will remain open and subject to different interpretations. In order to be able, without a shadow, to grant the authority of the Council of the Agency, the legal competence of the National Assembly for the conclusion of the employment contract should first be laid down and the legal basis for the transfer of that power should be laid down. These conditions have not been met, but it should be borne in mind that an even more controversial or illegal situation could arise when, for those reasons, there is a kind of competent dispute on the question of competence to conclude a contract of employment with the chairman of the Agency's administration and, as a consequence, the non-conclusion of this contract or the withdrawal of the already appointed perpetrator from that function. In the light of those considerations, in particular taking into account the fact that the Head of the Agency's administration is appointed by the National Assembly in such a legal situation, it is our view that the primary responsibility of the National Assembly in such a situation is that, if it has already been appointed by the President of the Administration, it is, exceptionally, to ensure that an appropriate legal basis can be concluded, namely, contracts for its employment and the management of the duties of the perpetrator. Once again, I would like to point out that the problem stems from the unconstitutional and largely contradictory legal arrangements in this area and that it is undeniably possible to resolve it only with an appropriate amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act, for example, in order to ensure that the Authority which supervises the operation of the Agency is the Government, also exercises its constitutional rights under Articles 6 and 7 of the Government Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Strle, for your explanation. Anyone want to explain their own name before the vote? He doesn't want to. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. I apologize for the complication. The position on the appointment of members of the National Election Commission of the Social Democrats is as follows. The National Election Commission is the highest electoral body in the Republic of Slovenia and plays an important role in the system of parliamentary democracy. Its powers are also appropriate, as it provides for the legitimate conduct of elections and referendums, coordinates the work of electoral commissions, electoral units and district electoral commissions, publishes the outcome of the elections, issues the election certificate, appoints the Secretary of the State Election Commission and performs other important tasks under its competence. Although the Social Democrats' Group will confirm the new proposed composition of the National Election Commission, which the National Assembly is scheduled to confirm today for a new four-year term. However, we would like to draw attention to some of the shortcomings, or in our view, the weaknesses that relate to this appointment process and not to the selection of some proposed candidates from the constitutional profession who will obviously not be given their place in the State Election Commission for the first time. It should be borne in mind that electoral law is part of constitutional law, so it would be right, according to our assessment, that at least some constitutional expert would be involved in the State Election Commission. This has always been the case since Slovenia's independence. The candidates were also submitted by four doctors of constitutional law, and none of them came through a sieve of elections on the Mandate-Volution Commission. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret such a decision by the ruling coalition, and we regret even more the fact that individual, publicly respected, legal experts were expelled from the list of candidates before the vote on the Commission of Mandate. Thus, the majority of the candidates did not include a longtime member of the National Election Commission from the ranks of constitutional experts and former Constitutional Judge Dr. Franc Grad. Formally for the coalition, this candidate should not submit evidence that he is a legal expert, although the National Assembly has previously appointed him several times as a member of the National Election Commission as a legal expert. If not, at least the previous appointments of the National Assembly are proof of its expertise, so the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission cannot truly be an example to us. On the contrary. We think we're making a mockery of the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that the absence of constitutional experts in the new composition of the National Election Commission in its substantive work will not be known and will be successful in carrying out its work and will justify the trust of the coalition that we will use today. That is why, of course, I wish her a successful job in the new mandate, and let us hope that this work will be done in a way that does not lead to the finding that the rule of law is again threatened.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u121	Of course, what we are dealing with today is not the first time. And if this continues, it will be sad, because the leader of the MVK is, of course, in the first place right now, I can tell you, even the most responsible for this happening at all. It is the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission who, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the possibility of eliminating such nonsense from the outset. But I do believe she'll be able to explain that that's not the case. In Positive Slovenia, we will support the decision to appoint members of the National Election Commission because the old members of the Commission are short-term members, but of course a new composition of the Commission itself must be appointed as soon as possible. However, we would like to draw attention to the very complications of appointment procedures on the competent working body, which we consider to be a kind of embarrassment of the National Assembly. In particular, it is a complication in the appointment of members or candidates from legal experts who have made a public call. As you know, the Mandate-Electorial Commission did not include Dr. Franc Grad, one of the recognised experts for the electoral systems and the current member of the commission on the list of candidates on the vote. The last course of action seems absurd to us. Between 2007 and 2008, Professor Dr. Grad served as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. During the five term of office, he served as a member of the National Election Commission. In addition, Prof. Dr. Franci Grad belongs to the summit of constitutional and electoral experts in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we would like to point out that Dr. Grad was elected to this function in the National Assembly. Prof. Grad’s professional skills are therefore well known to the National Assembly. Therefore, we find it absurd and inappropriate that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission did not take account of the last fact. In doing so, she formally referred to the need for Dr. Grad to attach a certificate of legal expertise. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the status of a legal expert is a status acquired by an individual in the professional public on the basis of his past work, his/her teaching and scientific research experience and other generally recognised ways. And the latter was more than mentioned for Dr. Castle in his role. We would therefore like to draw attention to the inappropriate and underestimating attitude of the National Assembly towards that legal expert and others in the hope that similar situations in the future will no longer occur. Of course we can, I hope, really hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Jože Tanko have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Lately, we have been doing a lot of critical work on such or different choices. Here I must conclude that the Mandate-Election Commission, as in all other cases, has issued a public call, and in this public call it has been specified which annexes the candidates must submit if they want to run for example in this part of the legal expertise set. When we formulated these tendering conditions, there were no comments. Nor was there any exception for those who were already supposed to be on the National Election Commission, or for those who were supposed to serve as legal experts in one way or another. So all these evidences had to be submitted by the candidates. I think that the Mandate-Election Commission has done the same, because it has not excluded only one legal expert or someone who has not had all the attachments, but has been in this mandate so far, and it has been similar in previous mandates, because I have worked in the mandate of the Mandate Commission, even in previous mandates. This is said to be no unique thing or any other kind of action. By the way, when this State Election Commission was appointed, the former Vice-President of the State Election Commission was also expelled for the same reasons as he did not submit one of the documents, and he was a member, or a deputy, of the President of the State Election Commission. Not only was Dr. Franci Grad excluded from the legal profession, but several other legal experts were expelled. That is why I also think this approach when you argue why one of these eliminations is appropriate and the other is not, in fact, problematic, because if we choose, then we choose everything in the same way and on the basis of the same criteria. If a different procedure were to be recorded in the invitation to tender, it is said that the Mandate-Electorial Commission could itself collect documentation on candidates or otherwise, then the choice could also be different. However, as has been found in the procedure of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Thus, the criticisms, particularly those directed at the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, are not correct. It acted consistently, as was stated in the invitation to tender. We will support this proposal of the list. In view of the candidates who have come and the degree of completeness of the candidates, we do not see any reason to challenge the quality of the election for the members of the State Election Commission in any other way. I wish this committee a successful job, and I thank the compositions so far for what they have done in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the State Election Commission. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jani Möderndorfer would like to speak. Please, Mr. Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u125	Of course, I will vote in favour, but it is more than clear that the National Assembly and the Mandate-Election Commission can also learn from such a case and change what they have not wanted to change so far. This is because when it publishes an invitation to tender, it is always possible to supplement the application. And with that, let's solve all our problems. This has already been pointed out several times within this same Mandate-Electorial Commission, but there is no such desire or intention. This is a fundamental problem, and therefore this misinterpretation of who has done the right thing and who has not done it is pointless, as this has also been discussed in these cases in the National Assembly in this mandate several times.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The application shall be made. The first word is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u127	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I have received criticism from opposition parties since my appointment as President of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Why? Because I am acting exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and because I am sticking to the way of work which was also known in the past to the Mandate-Electorial Commission. All the nomination procedures relating to public calls addressed at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission have also been dealt with in the same procedure in the previous mandate, but there were no such complications since this Mandate-Electorial Commission was led by a member of the Social Democrats. When you report that we do not wish to complement the applications of candidates, I must point out that the mandate-holder committee is a public call, which specifies exactly the conditions under which an individual or an organisation can run for individual functions, and that in this case it must treat all candidates on equal terms. All candidates have been treated under the same conditions so far and no one has had the advantage or that we have rejected it because it would meet all the conditions listed in the tenders. However, if you take into account what I have already said several times at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission itself that not all the annexes are attached, imagine that when a new candidate is due to be elected and within a period of time, if 200 candidates are applied for the invitation to tender, tell me when and how the professional services and the National Assembly can ensure that we also fulfil our responsibilities and obligations within the time limit. However, I believe that Mr Grad felt offended, but for me this is a great authority and it is not the name of Mr Grad, but it is the same treatment under the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. It will not be the first time that I have protested against the manner in which the Mandate-Electorial Commission works and, in particular, its President. I'll tell you what. It's the order, even if it's bad. That's her principle. I've been to this session a couple of times, and I said it was a guilty decision not to say stupid. When we decided on the applications for members of the Programme Council, it was from such a source, but now I will say bureaucraticly as a disadvantage, not for official reasons, an expelled candidate who came from the ZRC. This is the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, because it is said that the certificate from the register of societies was not attached, please. There was something else, and we have said several times when the invitation to tender, and the applications can also be supplemented after the invitation to tender. Currently, this government has a problem with the Zois scholarship decisions. There was no temporary residence certificate in the invitation to tender and this supplement was rejected. It is simply that the con granus salis has to be decided, and this is clearly a misinterpretation of some things. Well, please, some of the lawyers didn't fit and they were expelled! This is a highly offensive and inappropriate treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate. We're in the voice-explanatory phase. We have not come, Mrs Potrata, to the stage of offending fellow Members, but we are in the stage of explanation of vote, at a point called: a proposal for a decision to appoint a State Election Commission. And I expect from you who are leading this explanation, this part of the session is that you respond appropriately and take appropriate action. And just one more explanation. The mandate-holder committee has repeatedly given an initiative to propose additions or proposals for public calls. Madam and Members, who are discussing this, have not submitted any proposals for different forms of public tender.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u132	Mr. Tanko, you warned me and I warned you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u133	I'll give you an explanation. Secondly, it is not up to the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to decide on how he acts, but rather to decide on who goes to the vote by vote. So they're [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u134	Procedural proposal, Mr Tanko, I respectfully ask that you stick to the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u135	I have made a procedural proposal at the outset, if you have not listened to the fact that you are properly chairing the meeting and to warn those who are not discussing. In the context of the procedural proposal, however, I first pointed out the problem, and then I told you that I will give two more explanations in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I find that even if I go in line, you've been reported as four to explain your vote, or two to go. I note that the first one to discuss, as well as the next one, also the first – Mrs Ramsakova mentioned opposition Members, so I can say that everyone has in some way violated the rules of procedure in explaining the vote and in procedural part. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Procedurally. In particular, the President would like to draw attention to the following matter. Mr Tanko has referred procedurally to certain facts that Mrs Potrata should discuss in the context of her explanation of vote, and he has used his own exclamation of the exclamation point procedurally and has used his debate with some clear explanation to give an explanation. This is once again a new one within the Rules of Procedure or some parliamentary practice, so Mr Tank needs to be explained, the length of time and the skill of the abuse of the Institute does not necessarily mean that he allows himself to abuse someone and then abuse himself. Thank you very much. Let's stop this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Next up is Dr. Gregor Virant. Please, if you can concentrate so much longer to complete the vote and explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u139	I will vote in favour, although I have very similar problems with this decision to some of my opposition colleagues. I will not criticize the President of the Mandate-Election Commission, but I will criticize this system of public calls, which is totally bureaucratic. I've been fighting bureaucratic nonsense for four years, and if anything makes me feel pressured, I get pressure from bureaucratic stupidity. Look, there's a chance that someone who's some kind of flaw, some paper forgot to attach to, say, some application to call it in and do it. Especially if it's a nonessential thing. And it is necessary to separate essentially from nonessential. And the system that extricates Dr. Franz Grad because he didn't attach proof that he's a legal expert, I'm sorry, is really a stupid system. And you need to fix that on the MVK. You have to fix it! This is not a criticism of the President, but it is a criticism of the functioning of the entire public call system. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u140	Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I will vote in a revolt, given that it is obvious that this commission will still be voted out, which is right, against the revolution over the procedure that took place on the Mandate-Election Commission, and given what has been said and what has not happened for the first time. It is true that in some formism the interests of certain options are concealed, which insists on having its own people distinctly on individual functions. Not only did the respected Professor Castle not seem to be able to fulfill his role, but also Dr. Zagorec, Dr. Pogorevc and Dr. Strauss could not fulfill it. Speakers themselves, one of them is the deputy head of the Legal and Legal Service. Apparently all these people, the doctors don't know about Mrs. Ramshakov to fill out the role. So instead of doctors, we now have in the National Election Commission, with all due respect to everyone I read, but only to see their visibility as legal experts: Dr. Kambič, Mr. Vesenjak, Mrs. Fister and Mrs. Leustek. I'm not commenting. I'm talking about the legal recognition of people. This is really funny, it is an abuse of the MVK business regulations and I will vote against this decision from a revolt against such action.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-14-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 68 votes against 7. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivan Vogrin. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Section, Article I of the Law on Members of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 54851/2012 of 22. 11. 2012 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly of Magi. Ivan Vogrin does not grant immunity to a member of the National Assembly of Magi for the suspicion of a criminal offence of fraud under Article 228(1) of the KZ-1 Penal Code. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivana Vogrina, EPA 817. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Court of Justice in Maribor, Investigation Section, Article I of the Law on Members of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 50565/2012 of 3. 12. 2012 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly of Magi. Ivan Vogrin is suspected of having committed a crime of business fraud under Article 228(1) of the Criminal Code of KZ/1 relating to Article 54. KZ/1 does not recognise the immunity of a member of the National Assembly of Magi. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the decision on the proposal for a decision shall be decided without discussion. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on discharge of the President and Member and the election of the President and members of the Commission for the supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services The proposal was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and by Mr Jani Möderndorfer. I wouldn't give a particular explanation. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will not give an explanation either. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be discussed by the Members. We have two registered MPs. I take it the denials are being debated. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will relieve the president of mags in the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Mr Melita Župevc and Mr Jerko Čehovin are elected president and Mr Jerko Čehovin is elected member. Melita Zupevec. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10(2) of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if a majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision was adopted unanimously. I congratulate the President and hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 20 December 2012. I also adjourn the 9th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday 17 December 2012, at 10 a.m. I thank you for your cooperation and welcome you very much.
