ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and the following Members: Alenka Pavlič, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Borut Pahor, Jakob Presečnik and Matjaž Han from 15:00 on. I salute you all very much. We move on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda, which is me to the defence proposal of the law amending the law on additional intervention for the year 2012 following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Dr. Janez Šušteršič is with us. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister. Procedural Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u2	Mr President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! As we already informed in Positive Slovenia yesterday that we do not want to participate in the committee, today I announce obstruction at all three points that have been tabled under the urgent procedure and with only an extension of the agenda. Let me also state the reasons why Members of the Positive Slovenia Group will not participate in these three points. We have come to the point that, in fact, at the first regular session, we are dealing with laws following an emergency procedure, where we are allowed to have a serious in-depth discussion already that after yesterday's interruption, we had the committee's follow-up late at night and this morning at 9 a.m., which speaks of the very seriousness of the treatment of the material itself. There are no emergencies in the country so far. There is no such situation that would require us to deal with it on an urgent basis at a regular meeting, and these are laws that we could only deal with a few days later when we consider the rebalance and where it makes sense that at this point, together with the proposed laws, we should deal with this matter. This does not mean that we are against addressing these proposals. Far from it. Nor does it mean that we do not fully agree with the proposed laws. However, we do not agree with the fact that there is a discourse taking place in the National Assembly and we take the word that we have reached the point that the National Assembly has become a common green key, where it is only without discussion that it decides what is necessary and what is good, as the Government considers, that the government of this coalition, which has decided in its own way to introduce the new one called parliamentary practice. Parliamentary practice in history has not shown that legislation, which is serious, sensitive, is dealt with without discussion, following an urgent procedure, a few days before we consider the balance. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we leave the debate and take responsibility for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u3	We're continuing our session. Dr. Janez Šušteršič, Minister of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u4	Nicely greeted! The government proposes to amend the Law on additional intervention measures. These are two changes that, in our opinion, will allow for the continuation of negotiations on the balance of public finances with the social partners. You all know that when the government reviewed the situation in public finances and examined the possibilities available for their balance, it found that this task could not be carried out without partial interference with the remuneration of public servants. One of the government's proposals was to reduce the regression payments this year and next year. In order to be able to do this or to agree on this, to try to negotiate with the public sector unions, it is necessary to suspend the payment of the regression, otherwise the regression in the public sector as a whole would have already been paid. Then such negotiations would not be meaningful and would lose one important tool for balancing public finances this year and should then propose additional measures in other areas. Therefore, this law proposes that the date of payment of the regression fixed in this law by payment for April be moved to the salary for May, that is the payment made in June, and in the meantime we expect an agreement to be reached with the public sector unions on the level of this regression, or that the National Assembly adopts a Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which will determine the amount of this regress. The second amendment also follows the warnings we received in the negotiations with the public sector trade unions, where, when we started the debate on regressions, we were reminded of what we ourselves know about the very high payouts in most state-owned enterprises. For this reason, we are proposing a further provision that, in those undertakings which are owned, owned, owned, or owned by a municipality of 25 % or more, the regress may not be paid at a level exceeding the minimum wage or payable at the minimum wage, namely that measure, similar to the number of other measures covered by the Intervention Measures Act, be subject to a limited period of time. Such a measure is justified in terms of the need to balance the budget, to negotiate it and at the same time to be temporary, which means that it is not a permanent intervention in the agreed procedure. It is expected to last until the year ahead, where economic growth will for the first time exceed 2.5%. According to our assessment, the adoption of this law is essential, in particular, for the purpose of allowing us to continue negotiations with the public-sector trade unions in general in the Economic and Social Council on measures to balance the budget, in order to gain additional time, we will also gain through this other measure on national-owned corporate regression, a negotiating basis that will be adopted by the trade unions as a majority positive, allowing us to continue to negotiate these measures for the next two, three weeks, and we hope that some agreement will be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Committee's position will be presented by the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! At its 16th urgent meeting yesterday, 16 April 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012. This law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in particular in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical legislative aspects. The Service made comments on the title and provisions of Article 2 of the draft law and also pointed to an open question in the event that the regress has already been paid or will be paid before the law enters into force. No amendments were tabled to the proposed law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the Unions of the Slovenian State Authorities and representatives of the Alternativa Union attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law as well as the proposed solutions. He said that the proposal for a law meant limiting the growth of the budget of the State to the adoption of the country's budget rebalance and the time-limit for the payment of the annual leave for civil servants and officials by paying the annual leave in payment for the month of May. This allows for further negotiations with the social partners. Article 2 also limits the amount of the regression for employees in non-financial and financial companies in which more than 25 % is indirectly or directly involved by the State or the municipality. This regression shall be limited to the minimum wage, including the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of the gross social product. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative pointed out that the solutions proposed were insufficiently substantiated. She also drew attention to the problem of limitation in the already paid regressions and announced the editorial of the title of the bill. Following a brief discussion on the draft law on the home body, no amendments were adopted and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012 be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Government shall send a simple, short and transparent law to allow the payment of the annual leave allowance for civil servants and officials to be postponed for one month and to limit the amount of the regression for employees in companies where the state or municipality is more than 25 % of the owner of the property. The solution by which the regression payments relate to the implementation of the rebalancing is logical, as well as a solution that interferes with the amount of the regression in public undertakings which are state-owned and have limited competition due to their market situation. Let us remember what happened in this area last year. Some, better said, most companies paid high regressions, despite the fact that the then government had adopted recommendations to limit them. The government's recommendations were not respected by companies that were in business with loss and received tax money as a support for their survival. The restrictions of the regression were also recommended by AUKN and even threatened to monitor and act on companies' behaviour. However, the recommendations are not law, and as such they are non-binding, companies have not complied with them. Let me also remind you that in public one of the more resounding cases was the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, where they paid off a regression of EUR 565 on average. This is also an area – the payment of annual leave pensions – where the public sector is in a different, privileged position compared to the economy. The Labour Relations Act, which is the basis for the determination of the regression, provides for the economy to pay the regression by 1 July and not together with the payment for the month of April, as is the case here. However, in cases where the employer in the economy is in liquidity difficulties, this payment may even be postponed until November. Surely we can say that the country as an employer is in liquidity difficulties and that the transfer of payment even later would be very justified if we wanted to achieve at least about the same situation in the public sector as in the economy. As the proposed amendment will also create a more equitable position between public sector employees and economic workers, the SDS Group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u10	Dear and respectable, good morning! With a proposal for a law on additional intervention measures, the Government reaches two. Firstly, it is delaying the payment of the regression to public servants, i.e. in order to buy time for an appropriate social agreement. Secondly, it limits the amounts of the regression paid up, in cases where companies owned by the State or local communities, to the minimum wage level. Even if we can understand the purposes of these proposals, we cannot support the proposals of this law. In this law, that fundamental component was lacking, and this is an appropriate social agreement, and we estimate that social agreement in these categories would not be difficult to reach. This would be invaluable, however, in terms of strengthening trust among the social partners, which are in line with the negotiations, and which are expected to be substantially shaken by nuts. By unilaterally interfering with collective agreements, which is undoubtedly the law, and following this proposal, the Government is interfering with it, and today the adoption of this law will also affect the National Assembly. Let me remind you that, when the intervention law was adopted for 2012, the Social Democrats and a number of other political forces in this Parliament, with the exception of the Slovenian Democratic Party, gave up unilateral collective bargaining. Today's step and the adoption of this law means precisely this – unilateral intervention in collective agreements, in view of the necessary agreement between the social partners, therefore such a law is not a good way for the Government to achieve what it wants to achieve in social dialogue. Moreover, some lawyers, specifically Dr Rajko Pirnat, have been informed of the constitutional dispute in Article 2 of this Act. The Government's proposal that in companies where the country is more than a quarter owner, employees' regressions should be limited to minimum wage levels is unconstitutional in its view. According to Pirnat, the regress is an annual right acquired by an employee with the right to annual leave, which means that the employer cannot intervene in the middle of the year. The proposed amendments to the law to that right prejudice back, which is a violation of the Constitution which prohibits the retroactive application of the rules. Remember, last year some cases have angered the Slovenian public, and this is justified, so such a proposal can be considered reasonable and should be properly agreed with the social partners, because these are indisputable labour rights which we are restricting by this law. At a time when we are faced with a lot of austerity, it is even more important that all in this community strive to build trust. Especially in these days when Slovenia is threatened by a general statement from the public sector tomorrow. The right to strike is also one of the fundamental labour rights and we respect it by the Social Democrats. At the same time, we want to give the Government, employers and workers a union-organised, additional incentive to reach a smart compromise. Good will for this step would also be demonstrated by the Government's failure to stop from the public sector, from many of the people in this country who teach, nurture, educate, heal and protect our lives and property to make the key culprits of the crisis we are in. The public sector is not the generator of this crisis. We suggest that you stop creating in the public sector this desirable but artificially created enemy you need to deal with the public sector. This would be a good way to build confidence in the political space as well as within social bargaining. For those reasons, social democrats, especially because of the crucial fact that this step is not socially agreed between the social partners, will not be supported by the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The citizens' list will support this proposal. It is a fact that it is necessary to take some time, to end this difficult dialogue about reducing spending and to do something not to spend too much money on those companies owned by the State in a way that pays too much. However, this is also a loss of revenue from state cash registers, which can be quite high. We see how difficult it is to tackle spending cuts, how difficult it is to reduce any rights, in fact, we cannot reach any kind of agreement. We're bound everywhere by some laws. However, we all know that we must do something and that we must reduce our consumption, at the same time increase our GDP if we are to move forward normally. If we don't do this, then we're in real danger of a total disaster. I see that there is a need to find some consensus on these minimum things on the table, and not to get involved needlessly with them; some have already paid the regresses, some have not yet. This would only complicate the actual situation and then make it difficult to resolve certain things backwards. I think that we need to talk and find a common agreement as soon as possible and conclude this social dialogue, because it is practically not bringing us particularly good results. But we know we have to work this out. The Citizens' List will support this proposal and we hope that the real conclusion of these negotiations will be found as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you all very much and thank you for your word! The proposal for amendments to the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012 provides that, irrespective of the provisions of the collective agreements, the payment of the compensation for civil servants and officials shall be suspended for one month, i.e. from April to May’s payment. In particular, we welcome the provision limiting the scope of the regression for employees in non-financial and financial companies where the state or municipality has more than 25% of the property owner to the minimum wage until economic growth exceeds 2.5%. The fact is, many state-owned companies act as if there is no crisis and share high regressions, departures, awards. What is even more worrying is that some of these companies require the State to recapitalise them or provide them with a loan guarantee, while they themselves spend money on the previously mentioned enormous payments. Unfortunately, in the media, it is already possible to hear that some state-owned companies have rushed to pay for the high regression because they wanted to outrun the coming law, which, in our opinion, is very irresponsible. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we expect the Government to upgrade the provision of Article 2 of this proposal to limit the amount of salaries, awards and emoluments in state-owned enterprises. Finally, let me say that Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will undermine the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Roman Zveglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u16	Your Honor, good afternoon! I will not say anything new if I say that we support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're just in a dry cow period. The economy has experienced its collapse and workers in the economy have been reduced, even by non-payment of salaries, redundancies and the like. Many of them were left on the road and were unable to wonder how many hundreds the country would now take from them. They're out of work, out of income, with a child or two, with expenses, with loans. The line that we have also spoken many times as an opposition party, which at this point tells us everything, is: when there is a crisis, it is a crisis for everyone. It's the public sector's turn whether we like it or not. When it's a crisis, it's a crisis for everyone. The burden of the deficit must be spread and the economy must be burdened, strengthened. As soon as possible, the better. Now is not the time to look for excuses, to look for culprits, and to search for magnetograms, who ever said anything. We need to take action. It is understandable that no one is fit to reduce the standard, reduce the so-called rights acquired, reduce the income. We understand everyone who fights for his right, for his rights. However, we do not support reasonable insistence at all costs, regardless of the consequences. Where will that lead us? And under what rights could workers in the economy who had lost their jobs persist? What kind of regression or even vacation might they have thought about? Let me say, when the dairy crisis was years ago, 8 000 Slovenian dairy farms remained at annual level for more than 100 million euros in revenue. Where could they make up for this income? Nowhere. They had to look for supplies. Let me touch something else that this law regulates, it is a regression in public services or in companies where the country is at least 25% co-owner. We have heard too many times that some energy company, for example, has paid off fabulous regressions, commenting that they were doing well. Not to mention those companies that operate from year to year with an increased loss, they also paid off their fabulous regressions. This law finally interferes with this area and the amount of the regression is limited, which seems to us to be the only right thing in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u18	Good afternoon, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that, in the late hours of the night, the coalition, together with the opposition Social Democrats, has tried to find the best possible solutions to the current worrying public financial situation in Slovenia in the three bills that the National Assembly will be considering today following an urgent procedure. One of these proposals is also the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012, which I appointed with the correct title of the bill, as proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. Coalition partners are aware that we cannot spend more than we create. Therefore, public finances need to be consolidated mainly by reducing public spending. It is time and situation in Slovenia that has forced us to take good and verifiable conservative financial and accounting principles into account in our public finances conduct. Public spending should also be subject to our commitment to comply with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, with particular emphasis and concern for reducing the budgetary deficit. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Additional Intervention Measures for 2012 introduces the following two major amendments. Firstly, the suspension of the payment of the annual leave allowance for public servants and officials, i.e. for Members, on the pay day for May, irrespective of the provisions of the public sector collective agreement. So far, the regress has paid off along with the salary for April. Secondly, the amount of the regression for employees in non-financial and financial companies where, directly or indirectly, the State or municipality has more than 25 % of the owner, up to a maximum of the minimum wage for the period up to the year when the gross domestic product growth in the previous year does not exceed 2,5 %. Given that the situation in the area of public finances and economic growth has not improved, it is regrettable that additional measures should be taken to express themselves in the revised or reduced remuneration and employment ratios and to reimburse public servants in the public sector. In New Slovenia, we expect and want everyone to understand today that public companies and companies operating public services have a secure market, have no competition in this part and are privileged because they have an income monopoly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already called on those companies for austerity measures. Some companies ignored the recommendations and made haste by paying the annual vacation rescheduling rate as at the best times. In New Slovenia, we strongly condemn this work; we view it as a mockery of those who try to bear their share of the burden each day in solving crises in the country. We call on the Supervisory Councils to finally carry out their duties in such cases, as they are morally and materially responsible for decisions taken by administrations that are not consistent with the public financial situation in the country. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Additional Interventions for 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. There is no debate at the meeting of the National Assembly of Amendments. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of item 2.c of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 2B of the agenda, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Income by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Minister Janez Šuštersič for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u20	Hello! The government wanted to draw up some incentives for the economy as soon as the mandate came in. Part of this is the stimulus tax package that we are considering today, namely two laws, the Income Act and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. The main solutions are harmonised between laws. The Income Act is aimed at increasing the two benefits imposed by persons who carry out an activity or entrepreneurs by facilitating investment in research and development to 100%. However, the investment relief increases from the current 30 % to 40% and is no longer marginally limited, at least so far limited to legal persons. The financial impact of the Income Act due to the increase in these two allowances is estimated at an annual level of EUR 12 million, which is, of course, the extent that can be provided in the budget or adjusted to this expenditure, while we hope that this will have a positive impact on the economy and on small entrepreneurs. With the same law, the government also wanted to adapt the tax scale to the income in the segment which regulates in particular the taxation of the middle class. This is a known problem in Slovenia, which is due to the fact that we have very small wage differences, with the exception of some exceptions. It is said that two thirds of the people are below average wages and therefore, with very high rates, they are burdened by incomes close to average wages, which then also in international comparisons mean that Slovenia is a country with relatively high taxes, which is one of the obstacles to its international competitiveness. Following the drafting of this proposal, the adoption of the tax scale has led not only to coordination with the social partners on laws and measures to balance public finances but also to public debate. In these public debates, and in particular by trade unions, these proposals were put forward after the introduction of an additional tax grade for the highest income. The government has already decided at one of its meetings when it addressed this law amending the Income Act to offer the social partners the opportunity to discuss an additional tax class, the fourth tax class, with a rate of between 45 and 50%, with the beginning of the class limit of between 60 and 100,000 euros. There's not an agreement on that yet. The government expects such an agreement on an additional tax class, on the other hand, to be accompanied by an agreement on measures to balance public finances. Since we will only discuss these measures to balance public finances in the National Assembly when there will be a rebalancing agenda and the law on public finances, yesterday it seemed reasonable to withdraw the tax scales from this law and thus open the door to agreement and to continue these developments with the social partners, not only will there be no mistake about the tax scale, but a whole set of measures to balance public finances and thus we are gaining additional time for these coordinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent labour body. The Committee's report will be presented by its Chairman, Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister! As has already been said, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy yesterday addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The hearing was an emergency. On 13 April, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should also be dealt with in an urgent manner. On the basis of the written opposition from the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Sam Bevkov, this decision of the College decided on 16 April that the draft law should be considered in accordance with an urgent procedure. At a supplementary meeting yesterday, the Minister of Finance said that the aim of the proposed law is mainly to relieve the economy and individuals with a view to relaunching economic growth. The proposed measures are aimed at achieving greater competitiveness and productivity of the economy, which is essential for a way out of the crisis. The proposal for a law mainly introduces the following amendments. In the income scale, the net annual tax base, which represents a margin between the second and third tax classes, is increasing with a view to reducing the taxation of income mainly by experts and the most productive workers, of course those who bring the highest added value. Investment facilitation is increasing, with the aim of incentivising additional investments and thereby increasing employment. There is also increasing facilitation for investment in R & D. In its presentation of the legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments of this service were mainly taken into account in the proposed amendments of the coalition groups. She pointed out that the proposed legislative amendment did not make it clear what the term 'other similar rights' included. It also noted that the proposed extension of the deadline to 29 June 2013 was not in line with the solution in the proposed amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law. The members of the Committee discussed the proposed solutions to Article 4 and the amendments tabled. The DeSUS delegation followed the amendment by a solution and a proposaler with a reduction of the border between the second and third income classes, thus decommissioning the middle layer, in particular experts and the most productive workers. At the same time, it proposed an additional income class with a 50% rate of taxation for income over 60,000 gross per year. This would increase the revenue estimated by the Social Democrats Group by about 40 million. Coalition Members agreed that the cost of working in Slovenia is high, which, along with poor productivity, brings very low competitiveness to our country, but the proposed new income class is not expected to have the desired effects. In the discussion, the Minister of Finance explained that the proposed fourth income class would not achieve greater competitiveness of the country, on the contrary, due to the excessive burden of income, they would not be of interest to foreign investors, while domestic experts could also be employed abroad. He said that they were studying the idea of the fourth income class with the social partners, so the coalition members suggested that the decision to change the income scale should be postponed until agreement was reached with the social partners. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 2, 4, 8, 9 and 10 of the Coalition Groups. In view of the amendments adopted, it is not on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u24	Respected and respected! As a basic objective, the new government has ordered fiscal consolidation. Yes, we agree, too. Public finances need to be put in order. However, we estimate that the proposed path of fiscal consolidation is wrong. In fact, what do we do if we take on one side the weak, the young, the young, the children, the unemployed, the teachers, and the police? With the legal changes that the National Assembly has on the benches today, we are reducing public finances. All in order to achieve a linear recovery of the economy from which some hope for economic recovery. This will not bring about economic recovery and not serious restructuring and modernisation of the economy, as the government seems to ignore the key problem of the economy, which is its high indebtedness. We have not yet seen any proposals, nor any proposals on how we will launch the necessary credit activity. "When the crisis is, it is a crisis for all," said one of the speakers earlier. Let this also apply to the adoption of solutions in this law. The social burden must be properly distributed to reflect fundamental justice in our community. There is a moderate, alternative path to fiscal consolidation, significantly easier for people, but significantly harder for a policy that should direct all forces to address structural imbalances in our public finances. We have a problem in public finances, especially in that our debt is growing rapidly. And this is growing due to sources of instability, such as the pension system and the grey economy. This is the field where we need to direct our view and, if possible, the solution to be taken this year. A large savings hub, on the one hand, and on the other hand a reduction in public financial revenues. Let us see what our goals are, what our commitments are. We said we would reach a flat budget by 2015. Let's hope with a smart countercyclical policy mechanism. By 2013, however, in line with our commitments in the European Union, we need to bring our actual deficit to a level below 3% of GDP and structural deficit to a level of 1% and a half so that we can then bring it to the level of equilibrium of our public finances in 2014 and 2015. There's an alternative route. And one of the steps on this path is the introduction of an additional income class. I thank one of the Slovenian officers who showed this morning very illustratively what the Social Democrats are actually proposing. We propose that whoever earns 3,000 euros a month will give this country an annual computer. We suggest that whoever earns 10,000 euros a month gives this country one trip to the Caribbean. And we propose that whoever earns EUR 250,000 net in this country give this country a luxury brand. On the other hand, we are faced with radically interfering with the social situation of a large number of our people. Here we are talking about the fact that a very small part of Slovenian people will have to give up the superstandard, the luxury they have enjoyed in their lives. That is why today this is a huge opportunity for the coalition, support the proposed additional income class with a 50% doubling of income over €60,000 gross, which in particular means that this class will tax a person who earns EUR 2 000 700 net per month, and thus contribute to building the necessary climate of justice in our society. In order to detect the key elements of solidarity in the basic mechanism of redistribution of social wealth. This is inevitable and inevitable if you want to reach a smart and reasonable agreement with the social partners. For the absence of a sense of living in a righteous society is a fundamental reason for this society to grow in distrust. At a time when you need the opposition to adopt a fiscal rule, it would be good not only for the unions, but also for the opposition to step forward and take its proposals into account. Especially because they're good for this country and its people.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you for saying that again. I am very glad that when one of the proposals comes to the table that will improve the operating conditions of our companies, we are talking about the law on espionage income. This is absolutely necessary, we have talked about before the elections, and we are waiting for how we will improve the competitive position of our economy. Today, we give ourselves the opportunity to save a lot of people or to forgive them the tax. Those who operate positively will be able to apply incentives instead of 30% for the purchase of various investment equipment will be 40%. More importantly, it is no longer a 30 000-euro limit, it is said, that this is all a relief. However, for those who can also invest in R & D, it facilitates 100% and can be invoked as a tax relief. I think that those espies and entrepreneurs who are doing well, who have good plans, will be very happy about this proposal. Of course, the impact of €12 million is relatively low, and about that much less is expected to flow into the state budget. On the other hand, the impact of this investment and, as a result, the opening up of jobs may be much greater. For this reason, I am very happy, and the Citizens' List will support this proposal. I am also pleased that, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have withdrawn the proposal put forward by the Government to reduce taxes and contributions, income in the middle classes, so is the correction of the scale, and we have not accepted the proposal of the Social Democrats to introduce a new income class with 50% taxation. We think that the issue of taxation of income and the other costs that companies pay for their workers is extremely problematic, requires a better assessment of both the additional classes, where we can only do a great deal of damage and, on the other hand, the common taxation, because we are still the country that has the most taxed work in all forms. Since we were not paying attention to this, we lost a lot of jobs, which is scientifically proven, I would say, in all those industries that were labour intensive. It is said that the work carried too much tax revenue and too much obligation. It is therefore right to take this issue seriously and to find an answer to how to reduce these labour burdens and thereby increase the competitiveness of the economy. In these companies and all things, this is a start, a gift from the state to those who are capable of having a vision, having goals that are willing to invest, and that is a great deal. But we will have to add a lot more quickly in order to increase the competitiveness of our economy. One of these things is also about, as you said, lowering labour costs, taxation of work. The other thing is certain things the economy urgently needs. I think that this is a flexible labour market, the introduction of an eight-hour worker without lunch, would bring 6%. Nowhere in the world has lunches paid and counted as standards and so on. These are some things. However, for small entrepreneurs, compulsory membership and compulsory payment must be abolished as soon as possible and they will be able to decide for themselves what they will do at the Chamber of Commerce, as was the case with the Chamber of Commerce. Thus, a few points are still urgently needed to be settled, but this is one of the first steps that improves, and I am sure that all those who take advantage of this option will be very pleased with today's conclusion if we accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The financial crisis and recession are not yet understood and are causing difficult economic conditions, a developmental stalemate, a decline in consumption and an increase in unemployment in Slovenia. The scope of tax policy in the broader economic context is crucial for a successful economic environment, and the future general well-being of all Slovenians depends on its recovery. Together, we must be aware that decisive steps must be taken towards decommissioning the economy in order to relaunch economic growth. So today, we have some measures that are a burden on the economic sector and opportunities to increase competitiveness. The measures in this novel increase the R & D relief to 100% of the amount and increase the investment aid by 10%. This brings the creation of new skills, new patents, opportunities to improve and introduce new products and services. In short, there are increasing opportunities for more investment and thus for more employment, which is a major problem for us. Initially, the proposal for a new law on income provided for an amendment to the currently very progressive income scale in Slovenia by increasing the tax base for the tax rate at the highest, 41% tax rate. This would, of course, be agreed with in the DeSUS Group. This measure was therefore aimed at reducing the burden of work, which according to the Government's assessment is essential for experts and the most productive workers not to go elsewhere where they are substantially better paid. According to our assessment, the applicable income scale needs to be amended in a way that introduces more income classes, thus achieving a fairer taxation according to the level of earnings. Notwithstanding the Minister's disfavor for this, I believe that this should be done, since in this last income class practically covers all tax bases or earnings above 1.3 times the average wage. We know that there is still time for this change, as the Minister has said, and we hope that the outcome of the dialogue with the social partners will go this way, because, as we have seen or heard at the committee meeting yesterday, they are also ready for dialogue. At this point, it is important that we all realize that we must not only remain in what we are adopting in this law today, but that our economic policy will need to be honestly upgraded if we are to take the path of recovery and achieve prosperity from a few years ago. Above all, we will come to a fairer distribution of the tax burden. Members and Members of DeSUS will support this amendment with a comment on the income classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u30	Your Honor! In view of the fact that the government coalition has withdrawn from this law a change in the income scale, which has triggered the most controversy, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we estimate that the proposal for the amendment of the law has also become the most widely accepted. In this novelty, however, we have managed to maintain the planned increase in certain tax incentives for investment activities, which is certainly welcome under these economic conditions. It is probably again worth stressing here that increasing certain tax incentives is also one of the important measures to promote economic activity. This raises incentives for investing in research and development, from 40% to 100%. Given that only 21 people took advantage of this relief in 2010 and that it represents less than 1% of the total amount of existing reliefs, we absolutely support such a measure in the Slovenian People's Party. The increase in equipment relief and intangible long-term assets to 40% will, in our opinion, have a positive impact on the business of companies paying taxes to Slovenia. Of course, both facilitations are mutually exclusive and, of course, cannot be implemented together. In the debate, we have heard many times from the opponents of this solution that the increase in incentives does not mean economic growth. I wonder, of course, whether then lowering the benefits and increasing the taxes means greater economic growth. I don't understand. Of course, the amendment also includes an extension of the transitional period for the determination of cadastral income from the production of wine and olive oil and a flat-rate assessment of income per pan, until the new cadastral income system is in place. In the Slovenian People's Party, we absolutely support this extension until the new system is fully defined. Although we have not changed the income scales, there is no doubt that changes are expected in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. In this area, it is particularly important that Slovenia is fully competitive with regard to personal income taxation at least to the surrounding countries and its largest export markets, if not even the entire European area. Thus, any rise in the net annual tax rate for the transition to the highest income class is necessary, if not even a more extensive restructuring of the income classes. We probably all agree that it is not the most reasonable thing for every employee who exceeds the average wage in Slovenia only for a shade, to be taxed at the highest rate. There's no progressiveity here. In most developed countries, people with extremely high personal income are taxed exclusively, while we are practically the most taxed on a large part of the educated and more productive workforce. Our companies, particularly those in the field of high technology, undoubtedly have great difficulties competing in foreign markets under such tax burdens and at such a price to their employee. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support this novelty and, as we say, we hope for additional additions in the context of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you again! In Nova Slovenije we are pleased to support the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act. We support the incentive measures brought into the National Assembly by the government, which are particularly stimulating for the Slovenian economy. We estimate that this is a bold decision by the government and I hope the National Assembly as well. Among other things, the proposal for a new law on income increases the aid for investing in equipment and the intangible fixed assets from 30 % to 40 % of the invested amount. It is also increasing the facilitation of R & D investment from 40% to 100% of R & D investment. As a result, regional incentives for investing in research and development in less developed areas of the country are also being abolished. Let me remind you that this particular regional relief has been introduced into the legislation within the 2004-2008 mandate. When I was talking to many important economists at the time, they asked me why we don't raise investment in development to 100%. It is necessary to listen to the economy, and once again, as I have done many times, I also claim from this city that the economic crisis in Slovenia will be solved by economic operators or economic organisations. In doing so, politics must not hinder and restrict them. I myself voted yesterday to withdraw the government proposal to change the tax scale. A further thought is needed. In Slovenia, I say it's too expensive to have an engineering cadre. It is too expensive for employers, employees, in this case engineers, to get too low a net remuneration or too low a net salary. And then, of course, we're wondering why our quality shots are leaving. We also need to be careful if we overtax high incomes. It is normal for people who want to create a career that wants to create a good standard to leave Slovenia. We therefore welcome these, as I said, stimulating measures and bold government measures, so we are not just talking about austerity measures when we are actually talking about money that is not. When we talk about austerity measures, we are talking about reducing budgetary expenditure or reducing the amount of credit that Slovenia, of course, has to rent for high interest. But when we talk about changes in income legislation and also changes in the law that we will consider at the next point, this is the law on corporate income tax, and we are talking about the money that exists. It exists in the economy. And with the novels of these two laws, the government is taxing itself, leaving this money with economic operators, which I am sure they will be able to make good use of for development, for new technologies and for new jobs. In fact, this is also the key purpose and key task of the position or coalition. As we say in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment of the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u34	Well hailed, distinguished President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister of Finance, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The objectives of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act are based on the objectives of the Treaty for Slovenia 2012-2015, which require economic policy measures to provide conditions for a renewed economic start-up in the country. The proposal for amendments and additions to the Income Act increases the aid for investing in equipment and intangible fixed assets from 30% to 40% of the invested amount. Unlimited investment facilitation is expected to improve management conditions, thus encouraging independent entrepreneurs, as well as farmers with complementary activities on the farm, who identify income from activities based on actual income and expenditure and thus achieve greater added value, making them more competitive. The aim of the higher investment relief is to encourage the taxpayers involved in the activity to invest further, thereby promoting economic growth, employment and improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It is also increasing the facilitation of R & D investment from 40% to 100% of R & D investment. As a result, additional regional incentives for investing in research and development in less developed areas of the country are being abolished. Increased investment in research and development is expected to create new knowledge, new patents, new products and also give a clear signal to investors to support the development and knowledge society. The amendment excludes the simultaneous application of investment relief and development facilitation under this law, since, while the undertakings for certain equipment and intangible long-term assets could apply both investment relief and R & D relief, this would constitute a 140 % tax relief for certain equipment and intangible long-term assets. The transitional provisions of the law include provisions governing the treatment of concessions that have been imposed in the past but were not fully exploited before the year of implementation of this Act. The draft law provides for its entry into force the following day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important, however, that it is already used to calculate the income from the activity in determining the tax base of the activity's income on the basis of actual income and expenditure for 2012. Given the financial and economic crisis that requires immediate action to improve the Slovenian economy and the fact that the actual effects of tax measures on the economy require a certain period of time, it is essential that tax measures aimed at decommissioning the economy take effect as soon as possible. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. We have one amendment to Article 4. I am putting Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to Article 4 in the debate. Please sign up for the debate. Check-in is on. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u36	Nice greeting, Mr Minister, of course also Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President! In fact, today's interesting situation is that the position proposes changes in the law that have a significant impact on the future position of people, using a way that is not good. If we want to achieve a common goal in this Parliament and in this Slovenia, and this common goal is to overcome this crisis or stop it, then our dialogue is needed, then it is not right to create an emergency situation, because we can take time and discuss such important laws that have a significant impact. I suggest you, Mr. Minister, position, seek common solutions and accept those who may bring better things. I cannot agree to the fact that the public sector is responsible for everything. Sorry, the public sector didn't mess up this situation. The public sector is not the one to hang everything that is going on in this country. Many say that the economy is responsible for this situation. The economic situation of companies is the fault of the economy. They're the ones who run the companies, and they're the ones who've created through their systems the laws and the environment we're in. What the government is proposing today is, above all, supported by two sides. First, it supports this economy, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, and there is no social dialogue with trade unions. I can't get rid of the feeling – because in no way does it agree to the amendments that we are proposing to the Social Democrats – that this is the way we try to get all the blame on those who are most vulnerable and who have the least in this society. I can't agree to the thesis that engineers are overtaxed. Sorry, too little added value is for engineering work, so there's not enough added value in companies for engineers to pull a development project. And the development programmes should be the ones that could pull the wagon out of the situation we're in. And if this work has not been done, and if we now want to reduce or increase the income of the engineers, then I really want to know how we are going to make this selection, which we can increase for the engineer and which we cannot increase. The one who's successful, or the one who's failed? Then someone says we can't take the rich. Yeah, for Christ's sake, who should we take? Poor guy? There's nothing more to take from them. All we can do is stick something around the neck, not just around the belt. I think if this is about even reassignment, we have to take it from the rich. And it's definitely the right thing to do. Let me, however, turn once again to this social dialogue. Social Democrats are not obstructed, we are not trying to create a situation in which you will be Members of Parliament and Members in a situation where you are responsible for everything that will happen here. We are trying to cooperate, propose, make amendments and propose. Accept any proposal that may not be as bad as you think it is because it is, say, from the opposition. Mr. Secretary, I have a proposal. We have not written down in any law what will happen when we adopt these changes to the law, such as income, tax classes. Let us write that nothing will happen in 2012. Let us write, however, that this rate will increase by 3, 4,5 % in 2013. Let's make the criteria, and I'll back you up, and I'll do a lot to support you. This time, there's nothing valued about what's gonna happen. We simply say that we think that this will make the situation change and that economic growth and employment will increase, but there are no criteria that are valid. We were talking about regional reliefs, and we were talking about the fact that there are no more regional reliefs when there are 100-percent reliefs. Maybe that's a good solution. We might also ask those who are trying to set up regional centres in research and development that have carriers that are not just money consumers. If we asked regions what they think about individual regional centres that are already working today, we might not say, however, that regional facilitations would not be supported by these centres when we are talking about facilitations for development. There aren't situations everywhere that can only look at first sight. There's no need to destroy everything, forgive it, eliminate what was in the previous system. Let's keep what's good. For this reason, of course, the amendment to Article 4 is the amendment that can help us say that we will try to evenly redistribute our burdens so that we will bear these burdens evenly. I propose to the Slovenian Government that every law and amendment of the law evaluate what it wants to achieve and that it say that if it fails, it will have no income, personal income, or that we may then require sanctions when we talk about what the government wants to achieve. Once again, let's talk. We can't talk tonight, at 9:00, 10:00, 11:00 a.m., this morning, at 9:00 or 10:00 a.m., we've been discussing this. It's not good, it's not good, it's not an emergency. But we can get to the emergency situation. This emergency can start tomorrow, so it is only right that social dialogue is not underestimating workers, underestimating the union and at least the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u38	Nicely greeted! Indeed, there is a strange atmosphere today, and tomorrow’s meeting of the National Assembly is likely to take place. The government has retreated or fled the capital because it's getting too hot here. I ask, Who cooks emergency situations — whether parliament or government? Unfortunately, ministers have been very successful in supporting the public sector with the real sector. These days we are listening to how nothing works in the public sector, living wastefully, doing nothing to solve the crisis. That's great. Yes, there are reserves, there are reserves everywhere, but you need to know how to approach it. Citizens and citizens watch television, echoes, are concerned. And that's where it sounds when some minister says he was told by a worker in the hardware store to come from the public sector for one day to the hardware store. Yeah, let someone come from the hardware store, from some material part of production to the eighth grade of a nine-year-old in one day, and to the E.R. and elsewhere. But every job has to be valued, no offense, no instigation, no underestimation. But this government managed to get us to fight right and propose this kind of, literally, stupidity. Once again, the proposed law gives more money to the rich who are supposed to use this financial gift for research, investment, new jobs. Unfortunately, experience shows that in the past such discounts did not go into increasing productivity for the new development cycle and so on. The truth is that this money will go to luxury cars, a personal luxury that this government does not specifically want to tax. You're thinking even differently, you need to reduce the cost of transporting to work, for lunch, which was heard today. Of course, if only the minimum wage could live normally. But if not, without these supplements, the worker doesn't survive. And who's going to get it back in their pocket if we're going to cut these contributions? Even DeSUS says that pensioners will not be harmed, but we take some rights from them, a holiday regress or whatever we call it, which they spend on buying their basic food. But the voters will tell their story. The pensioners are also being punished today because of the crisis caused by banks, tycoons and, in many cases, an incompetent management that took care of itself alone, its pockets, its insane Mercedes and more. This is not the fault of pensioners, nor of social activities, if that is what I call this other sector. But you certainly don't want to cut into a gray economy where there's a lot of money going on. You are certainly not starting to deal with pension legislation, which is what the European Union requires of us. I ask where are those screamers today who have been breaking reform laws for three years that they would be in bloody need of today and would be in a much better position. Where are those people now? One of them became ministers, and one of them is nowhere. All of these, of course, lead me to believe that I will not confirm the change in the law unless the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats is adopted. We are convinced that this would be a small part of the solution to the problem that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u39	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 4 of the new Income Law, which will also be obtained on the revenue side of the state budget. I would like to make a comparison here because we are now talking about these financial matters, the financial laws in saving, in creating new revenue, what is the difference between Slovenia and Switzerland? Switzerland adopted a gold fiscal rule in 2003. Of course, it could have set up some kind of budget fund to help the state budget in the years when it also found itself in difficulty. Today, Slovenia is in a hurry with this fiscal rule, not mainly to draw up a decision on the budget reserve for difficult years, but to avoid a referendum on financial laws. It is therefore good for us to primarily take care of the revenue side of the state budget and not just deal with taking on the expenditure side as it does and has the main objective of the mega law on public finance balance, which is intended to save more than €800 million in the state budget. If the government had failed to implement tax reform in the period 2004-2008, it would have already had 800 million euros and more money, because the year-on-year manoeuvring due to Bajuk's tax reform is almost 900 million euros per year. If we add to this the many pre-election laws adopted by the then government in 2008 and the failed wage reform in the public sector, then, of course, today there should be no need to come to the National Assembly with such rigorous measures and frighten citizens. As it is said, I propose that colleagues and colleagues, in particular from the coalition, support the Social Democrats' amendment, which introduces the fourth income class, which would tax 50 per cent of the annual or gross salary of more than 60 000 euros or around 3,000 euros a month. This would mean that those who receive EUR 3 000 a month would somehow lose EUR 420, which is the price of one tablet computer, or those who receive EUR 5 000 a month a net salary would contribute almost the same percentage as Frangež said before, for one exotic trip to warm places, or, for example, those who have EUR 25 000 a net monthly salary – even those in Slovenia – and would contribute almost EUR 60 000 to the state budget, which is the price of a very prestigious high-priced car. After all, we are bringing the Social Democrats to the revenue side of the state budget of €40 million, and for that reason we could also reduce this mega law to balance public finances; for that government will be successful, which will in particular do something on the income side, because it is very easy to take and create new incomes is extremely difficult. Here is the creativity we need in this Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Schuštersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u42	See, the introduction of the fourth class of income tax is a question or a proposal which is linked to many issues, including the risks that must be borne in front of the eyes. One thing that is very important is that these international comparisons, where such a class at this level, as you suggest, would mean 50% of over 60,000 of the total income, represent a very high marginal rate of taxation of income from work, as we tax our income from work with income. This would signal Slovenia that the environment in which work is very heavily taxed, which is already today, would be an additional signal in this direction. If we look at some other countries with similar levels. For example, Austria has a 50% rate starting at 60,000, but not income, as you suggest, but tax bases. While they are significantly higher than we are in general, they are lower than we are in social contributions, which means that this base translates into substantially higher incomes than we would tax them with this rate. If I give another example of a country that is often cited as an example of Sweden's social solidarity. There they have a 56% tax rate, but on the basis of more than EUR 548 000. That's one of the problems. Another problem that is very significant in Slovenia is that those people who are usually referred to as rich in the word, and we have them in front of us, have not become rich with income taxed on income. Some wealthy people, those who are sometimes pointed to by a finger, can report very low incomes in income forecasts. You may have found something of your own if, for example, you have closely monitored the disclosure of income forecasts by political party presidents prior to the elections. Therefore, it would be difficult only to achieve this objective of solidarity taxing the most powerful. As a result, the Government has proposed several other measures in the Public Finance Balance Act, such as additional anti-crisis solidarity taxation of real estate over the value of EUR million, additional taxation of large and powerful vehicles and vessels, and several other measures in this direction. Third, recipients of such high active income, with certain exceptions, would quickly transfer some of these incomes into different forms. Most importantly, we are here talking about a related set of measures. We too wish to reach an agreement, but it is not possible to agree and adopt and implement only one element of this possible agreement first. As I have already said, the government has also proposed to the social partners – such a proposal also applies to the National Assembly – that it is willing to discuss solutions for the fourth tax class, perhaps taking into account these concerns that I have mentioned, which might show a slightly lower level and a higher limit of this class. Of course, some unions have also told us that it is not absolutely necessary that this rate is 50%, and it is not necessarily that this limit is so low. There is room for dialogue, and there is also a possibility of some agreement, which must also be linked to other important decisions that we will have to make this month. This is a way of balancing public finances, which will eventually be taken by the National Assembly, which measures the social partners will be willing to take, and of course it is a matter of a fiscal rule. Both the agreement with the social partners and the adoption or continuation of the procedure for the adoption of the fiscal rule have its value, which can also be demonstrated in the way, in the dynamics of the adjustment of the public financial deficit. This is what is on the table, and the coalition has proposed the withdrawal of this article at this very moment so that these things, like a negotiating package or as things that need to be negotiated in a related way, can remain on the table and these discussions can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Franzege. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. It is interesting that we are here afraid of the risks that our proposal poses. Interestingly, we refer here to the necessary analyses and calculations. It is interesting, however, that in the 818 million euros worth saving pact, we do not have any analysis; we only have a table that drastically reduces the income of many of the social groups of our population. There is no need for analysis when we take it; where we can take something to ensure more justice and solidarity in society, but here we need analysis, we need calculations, here are too many risks. International comparisons. Of course, €60,000 in Austria is not the same in Slovenia. Why? Because Austria and Sweden once have higher GDP. That's why I think it's a meaningful comparison. Look what you're saying! You say that these measures will make us uncompetitive and, on the other hand, countries have the same highest rate of taxation for revenues that are lower in relation to the Slovenian situation and our GDP, but on the other hand these are countries that are significantly more competitive than us. Countries such as Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Austria, the United Kingdom, Finland, Germany and France – all countries have a higher threshold of income tax in their arrangements than we do; Sweden and Austria, mentioned by the minister, have this limit of 60,000 euros. This limit is set at 15,000 euros today. So yesterday, we wanted to attach the Social Democrats to the government proposal and say, "Yes, it makes sense to move this threshold of the highest tax grade from 1.2 times the average wage to 1.5 times." But at the same time as we unload the middle layer in our country, and that's the point, let's also introduce the highest tax grade. It is a question of will and, in fact, I find it unwilling to ensure fundamental social justice and burden sharing by taxing the richest. Mr. Minister, why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u45	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'll open another round of debates. Check-in is on. The debate was also opened by the Minister, Dr Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u46	Only this question, why not really, would I answer. More than seven times saying it's the will to talk about it, I really can't do it. However, we had quite a few cases in history when something was made in advance with the aim of following an agreement, and there was no agreement. Regarding competitiveness, of course Sweden is not competitive because it has a 56% threshold on income, but because of other reasons where Slovenia is not even about where Sweden is, and where we have in the past had quite a few failed attempts at reforms. We simply need to cut down on measures that may be simpler, but at least they can work. These tax measures, which we are proposing today, are going this way. Third time. When you make comparisons according to the level of GDP, of course 60,000 in Austria and Slovenia is not the same, also because we are talking once about the tax base and the second time about the total income. But I also hope that, given what is appropriate in relation to the level of GDP that a country has, you will also take into account when we talk about it, let's say what standards in education some country can afford, what benefits in the public sector some country can afford and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u47	The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am surprised that the opposition has repeatedly criticized us in the last period, and that we should finally propose measures to start the economy. But when we have such suggestions on the table, again someone doesn't like something. So much for this part of the Income Act, where we give the opportunity for the economy to finally breathe. It's about the income scale. I read somewhere that a small country is an expensive country. And if there is, then in Slovenia it certainly does. I would not be contentious, Mr Frangež, a higher tax on wealth, but it is disputed if we declare everything as wealth. I also agree that the income scale should be overturned. Unfortunately, I do not agree with the fact that we also declare as the most powerful those who earn EUR 3 000 625 per month. So much for your proposal for an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u49	Replica, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u50	In society, low social rights must be advocated. I understand that this is not the value of everyone in the National Assembly, but three times the average wage, I think that's the limit when we can say that someone in this society is rich, if not, but at least that they have more than others. And that in this society it is important to be proud that Slovenia is, in some criteria, also the first in the world among the most developed countries. I am proud to be the first to take good care of our children, to take good care of our young mothers, and so forth. That's something to be proud of. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary, he's probably listening to us somewhere. I am grateful to my colleague Katarina and will not repeat what she said about the apparent deficit in measures to start the Slovenian economy. Of course, I respect the debate of respected colleagues from social democracy, which is consistent with their political profile. I hope that my thinking will also be respected from my political profile, which does not exclude solidarity, not even the expression of charity. But look at the honourable colleagues, the amendment's proponents, you may have been mistaken, or whatever you call it when you wrote in the amendment's explanation, "Social Democrats believe that the burden of the crisis must be borne by those who caused the crisis." This one, however, is a little too severe. You have thus said that those who are successful, who have more income — not all thieves! They're also successful, they're good people who don't know what a vacation regression is, who don't know what a vacation is, who work, who work and so on. You put them in one bag and you told them that they too, because they are successful and have high incomes, caused this crisis! The question is whether in Slovenia we have a definition of who is rich and who is poor. Who's rich? Those who have high wages or activity income, if they are independent entrepreneurs? Is it perhaps the one who owns the house worth a few million? That's the question. Or the one driving a fat car? Here our thinking is sometimes far from traditional European thinking. My friend Bevk, I'm glad we were both talking to our Swiss colleagues. When I read what was going on in their country about a month ago, they had a referendum: a very interesting referendum question was and a very interesting decision. A total of 66% of Swiss voters rejected the proposal to have six weeks of paid leave. They prefer to stay on only four weeks paid leave. It's Slovenia. No, it's Switzerland! But we'd like to be Switzerland. When I spoke in the position of the New Slovenia Group on Engineering Personnel, I was actually passing on the thoughts of the economists I was talking to. I myself have been in the economy for almost a quarter of a century, and I repeat this: the engineering staff is too expensive for the employer and, on the other hand, the engineers with their net salaries, from which they and their families live, are underprivileged. That's why they're going out. If you talk to people who run successful manufacturing companies today and ask them how it is with the offer of engineering personnel, they will answer you that it is not, unfortunately in Slovenia we do not have enough engineering staff – of course one who knows something. For the last time, we were also Members and Members of the northeastern Slovenia at the rector of the University of Maribor, although the rector was a diplomat and the Rector said that they received freshmen or freshmen each year. Graduates with less and less knowledge. The university as some kind of final stage in education – what should it do then? In fact, it takes two years to create some level of knowledge that high school students master in developing Europe. Let's ask the economists what's coming from the universities. I'm thinking about the engineering frame here again. The former Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Jure Zupan, went around and urged the graduates to join the Faculty of Science, to laugh and to experience the result. This entry has increased. Of course, with all due respect to sociologists, but we're talking about production, new jobs, new factories, because if there's no good engineers there, which will also be paid well, not in a socialist way, according to their results, then we're actually in bad shape. This scale, I'm going back to 2004-2008. It was obvious that the then finance minister, Dr. Bayuk, had carried out a poor tax reform. This was then the only serious reform that was carried out and, in the framework of the Partnership for Development, if memory does not deceive me, then the reduction of the progressive tax scale in the Income Act was also supported by the then Group of Social Democrats in the negotiations, and later the vote was slightly different. We must not be afraid of rich, successful people who have high incomes if they reach them with the results of their work and knowledge. The second question — and it is not a matter of the Income Law — is that they are thieves. Forgive the ugly expression. Then we call that the rule of law. It wouldn't be right or ethical to speak ill of Dr. Bajuk now, but that's all I can say. When he was still alive, she was in one of the Slovenian journals, and I'm not doing propaganda, a survey. The question was, which of the finance ministers was the best – to the last, the last was Dr. France Križanič. A few votes were cast over a thousand 700 readers, and Dr. Bajuk received 47% of the votes. Yeah, just! I'm happy with that result. Of course we can share our grades here. I don't underestimate the union mission either, because sometimes we listen to the obvious that we reject union work, etc. That's not true! Why are we negotiating? Why are they taking the government? However, I agree with this and in a way feel for honest workers in the public sector, these are exceptional people who are trying and aware that they are serving citizens. Of course, they are also likely to represent a poor service for citizens and then we create an image of the whole public sector, and unfortunately, the right one is wrong. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will not support this amendment. I think there is a lack of this amendment; there is a lack of guarantee to ensure that the professional cadre, which, with knowledge and work to be done, deserves a little more or more above average to stay at home, because otherwise this amendment can be understood as an expulsion of the good and the knowledge of the full people. Exile from Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u53	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. In any event, a number of general matters have also been raised at the time of this amendment, which must be commented on on on the one hand and put in some correct context or at least in the context of the actual situation. First time. With this legislation, it is not a matter of creating emergency situations. The laws adopted and dealt with by emergency procedures in the National Assembly have already been large and many are likely to be. After all, there have been questions, demands, initiatives to create a more competitive environment for the economy, and these are one of the measures that will be a more competitive environment for the economy. They are not alone and, of course, they are not the only ones who would now, at tax rates, find effective rates to determine whether an environment is more or less competitive. In the international professional public, there are 11 criteria in view of the criteria in Slovenian, which in fact determine what it means to be competitive. This is also a matter of labour flexibility, it is also a quick opportunity for education, a change in education, a change of professions and so on. In short, in international literature, we can all look together again at what are the criteria for the competitiveness of the economy. Nor is it true that anyone or the Slovenian Democratic Party or, if you like, the coalition is to blame for this state of the public sector. That's artificial, that's today's artificial saying that someone blames someone. That's not true. The fact is that in 2008 60,000 people were unemployed in Slovenia and there were also some 10,000 more people, especially those who came from other places, other countries and countries. Today there are 120,000 unemployed, 60,000 differences. Of course, if all of these are unemployed and one of the parents in the family is unemployed and if this family has on average one child, these are three people, then it is 60 times 3, almost 200,000 people, or 180 thousand in a poorer position due to the loss of a job in the period 2009-2012. These are, of course, the results. And we don't blame the economy here! Here we can talk about the different factors involved. It was also a global crisis. Also because our economy is structurally what it is, which achieves too little added value for various reasons. These are also the reasons that need to be taken into account today. However, the undisputed statistical fact is that the country had a deficit of 30 million in 2008. 30 million in 2008 by ESA 95. And the undeniable fact is that in 2007 there was a surplus or surplus in the state budget. And the undeniable fact is that this surplus was created on the basis of Dr. Andrey Bajuk's so-called tax reform. At that time it was one of two years when the surplus was achieved in the entire history of Slovenia. These are statistics that we can comment on. We can't comment on that. The undeniable fact is that someone then calculated what would have been, if the reform of the Marble still were still in force, and if the reform of the Marble, with which we taxed mobile phones, parking lots, were still in force, we had a 50% rate, which caused capital to flee the country in those years, if we are speaking now of tax history. I do not want to talk about tax history, but since the words of 2004-2008 are constantly mentioned, we need to tell ourselves here once what was actually happening at the time. In 2007, there was a surplus on the basis of laws that were enacted on 1 January 2007 and then would be in a completely different state today and then questionable are these 900 million, which are discussed what would have happened if it had been. However, the undeniable fact is that in 2008 we can still talk about somewhat balanced public finances, we cannot talk anymore. Why not? Because in 2009 about two billion more was used than was actually created. And since two billion more was spent in 2009, of course there was a deficit of two billion, which was then 6.4% of gross social product by 2012, and these are facts and these are statistics. If we are also talking about that reform at the time, then I can personally ensure that, in the framework of the Partnership for Development at that time, this reform was extremely widely accepted, and the unions also adopted the reform at that time and also within the framework of the Partnership for the Development of the Social Democrats. These are some of the facts, I am not saying that things could not have been better then, but they are in a way that was actually a surplus in public finances. Today we find it difficult to say that the economy is responsible for this crisis. Certainly there have been anomalies in the economy, probably significant ones, probably not all the anomalies have been corrected, but the economy today is the one that is trying and creating added value. The public sector also generates added value, 15% in gross social product, in the context of macroeconomic analysis, these are data. And 15% of 36.5 billion, we know that this is something over 5 billion, and from this we also calculate how much this is per day, if we talk about 240 working days, and how much this is one day, even though the public sector is not working. It's hard to say here that there is no dialogue with the unions. As far as I know, they negotiate every day. As far as I know, the government is negotiating with the unions every day, but there may have been no dialogue in some previous system on pension reform. There was no dialogue with the unions and the unions were, in fact, those who said they would not support the pension reform. As you say today from social democracy that you do not support those solutions that are not in line with social dialogue, then the Slovenian Democratic Party did not support solutions that were not supported by social dialogue or where they did not actually need to be harmonised. We can talk about some specifics in these tax laws and we can talk about regional reliefs that are no longer available today because it can no longer be because research and development facilitation is recognised 100% in the whole country and cannot be 200% because it does not result in this mathematical outcome. Because of this, no regional centre here will be closed or given sufficient emphasis, but this comes from pure mathematics and logic. Now that we're talking about these tax matters, I would look at this further, a little bit in the past has been the answer to what is constantly being said about some reforms that were not as good, some calculations that were subsequently made by the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, and so on. However, the fact is that with these measures, and also with those measures that will come, which the Government will prepare, we will try to make the economy better conditions and that it will begin to turn in terms of increasing gross social product, increased employment and so on. This is actually a strategy and these measures are part of this strategy, one of the measures, are not the only ones. The undeniable fact is that without these measures, we will not achieve economic development, nor will we achieve consolidation of public finances without measures to reduce public sector spending. However, the consolidation of public finances is that the current deficit of 6.4% of gross social product is balanced by first achieving the Maastricht criteria for which we have pledged ourselves. And the undeniable fact is that this excess of consumption in the last three years has not gone for productive purposes, either, so that gross social product does not stagnate or fall. This is now somehow an explanation and also an answer to all that has been said here. I think that these measures need to be taken with optimism, by meaning that they mean something new for the economy, something good for the economy and, of course, that it will actually come to life, because only a successful economy means development for the country and also greater prosperity for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening a round of motions for discussion. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u56	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! With regard to amending the Income Act and introducing the new income class, there was a lot of talk on any change in income. I also remember four, five years ago when we discussed this a lot. With regard to the proposal made by the Social Democrats, I would say that this was – they had the opportunity, they had the coalition, they led the government for three years, and with what change they did not make, except, unfortunately, with the State's debt and the lack of respect for the law on public finances, where it says, as Mrs Bratušek has repeatedly said that income and expenditure must be balanced. Unfortunately, this has not been taken into account by the previous governments. When I heard the debate yesterday on the Committee on Finance, Minister Šuštersič said that the proposal proposed by the opposition this time was not such that it could not be accepted. However, he made it clear that arrangements were needed; thus with the unions with which the negotiations would take place today, and on the other hand with the opposition, which was so stated by colleague Frangež on the plate, if you support the proposal, we will support you, because you need us in the fiscal rule. We're all aware that we need this fiscal rule. In fact, it will bind any government, any coalition, more easily; it will bind more because it will be a constitutional rule than it binds and is not respected, although, of course, it should, the Public Finances Act – what I mentioned earlier – back there in 1999. Given that I already have a few kilometres in this National Assembly, I still have a bitter taste for the promise of 2008, not a promise, an agreement with the then Minister of Local Self-Government of Žagar that the then opposition of SD would support the change; therefore, it supported the change of the Constitution in relation to the provinces and would then support the establishment of the provinces. That didn't happen. If this had happened in 2008, this year 2012 would not have had such a catastrophic situation in the country. I am sure that a number of companies would not fail; not from smaller companies, because they would pursue a regional development policy differently in the regions than they did, at least for the last three years disastrously bad, the previous government with four or five ministers on local self-government and, as we have heard yesterday, also a catastrophically poor use of these European funds. There is a fear that billions or maybe even more of the investment money will remain in Brussels. Thus, the SD, which was then in the opposition, agreed, was agreed, harmonised for six laws, and then, at the end of 1 February 2008, it ran out in the National Assembly – I think 4 or 5 votes to establish the provinces. Comrades of the opposition, I hope, because I am thinking positively this time that you are thinking a little more seriously and responsible, because you have brought your country with your irresponsibility where you have it. Unfortunately, you were the largest government party, and at that time the country was indebted to €6.5 billion, and there is not a single smallest extension to the development of the economy. That is why these three laws that we are adopting today go solely in this direction, in order to move something in the economic field as well. Thus will be the next proposal on corporate income tax and so on. I hope that if you really think that this agreement will be possible, that we have enough opportunities and time, the Minister has given the committee yesterday – the one you listened to – that we can reopen this law with the budget rebalancing. If we agree on these two matters, or if the unions agree to do so, or if the government agrees with the unions, and at the same time a coalition with the opposition in support of the fiscal rule, there is an open way for this 4th grade. Whether the number of €60,000 per year is enough or not, I believe that this number should be higher and slightly lower. I wouldn't go to 50 percent if you took half of what you've earned, but a lower percentage. The figure itself is expected to be slightly higher for those who earn just over 100, 200 or more euros per year. Today we will not support this amendment, and we have not closed the door. As I say, this has also been the case with a clear message from the Minister; while further adopting the balance and the possibility of reopening this point of this law in this area, a binding agreement is needed first, not a promise with a fig in his pocket, then this does not apply. So much for me. I will act in this spirit so that we do not do this today or support this amendment, but in this spirit I will continue to do so, but to agree in a pact on measures that are more than necessary. Some of you say why the tightening in this way. In fact, it is not a burden to use what we create — we will not! In spite of all these austerity measures, we will have to expose ourselves to a billion euro. What's the worst? The worst part is that this borrowed money has become so terribly expensive. All those debts that have been made - I remember, we had 150 to 200 million euros in the budgets there, today we will have 600 to 700 million, very quickly we can come to one billion, that is 10% of the whole budget just to pay off interest. Can't hold it, can't hold it, let alone a small economy like ours! If the wind blows in Germany, we know if it's going in a positive direction, very slowly and a little. If he's going in the negative direction, he knows us so much better. If I simplify: if someone who has 600, 700 euros a month is credited for 200, 300 euros a month, it is a huge cost, for someone who has 2 or 3,000 euros – that is an essential difference. Unfortunately, our economy is a small economy, not adapted to all these turbulences, in particular because of the decay of capitalisation, the decay of 'admission', which unfortunately has happened to all these matters, with such decaying legislation. That's why we're where we are today. Unfortunately, everyone in this country is experiencing negative consequences, but some individuals have enjoyed these positive, sadly, pleasures. Remember that so-called hole and the sale of Slovenian property to some individuals in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! In view of the debate in the previous round, I have been obliged to explain to my colleague Frangež that we are also aware of and support the social state in the Civil Gazette, but with this difference that we are aware that it is necessary to create and share this first. If we want to share more, respected colleagues and colleagues, we must urgently create a systemic environment so that the economy can catch up; and this is what we are doing today. Yesterday our colleague Weber said nicely that the National Assembly is not a service to the government, I fully agree with it, but we are a service to the citizens and the economy. Today, with these measures, we will be able to provide adequate services to help our economy breathe and that we will be able to share something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting from me, too. Today, we are considering financial laws that are supposed to bring improvements and bring some fresh impetus to the development of our economy, improve the situation. In this light, it seems to me that there is also a proposal – I take the proposal of the Social Democrats to introduce the fourth income class for a constructive one. It is also legitimate to think about the new income class, which is expected to put more pressure on the better paid in the given situation, in the case of a law where investment incentives are increasing and incentives for R & D are increasing. I must say that I was already intimately agreeing to this fourth income class — when we did not accept it, I listened to the arguments. During this time, several years have passed since the economic and financial situation has turned radically, and I must say that I have missed such a proposal. If the Social Democrats are correcting their mistake not to exploit these opportunities when they were the majority party, I take that as positive. I also take note, and I know that it is like the real minister, that we will follow this when we reach a final agreement on this – we hope that we will complement it with social partners and unions – and that we will then be able to do what has proved to be an emptiness in the marriage. I would like to say that I am taking this proposal for constructive and constructive action by the opposition, because it also gives us an opportunity to think about how to improve legislation. I must say that today's behaviour is positive Slovenia, despite the fact that it is a legitimate institute, anarchistic. Before they said any word in Parliament about these laws, they'd already blown it up, they took the day off! Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a pact with a rather anarchistic behavior of the unions that predicted the strike before the measures were known! Today, Positive Slovenia roasted before saying one word. It's not constructive, it's legitimate, it's under procedure, but it's not constructive. It is a step forward in destabilizing the country to create chaos in the country. I must say that by doing so, they are somehow transforming the foremark of their party, which they uncritically put on — from Positive Slovenia to negative Slovenia. From this point of view, I urge them to consider their constructiveness, whether people will accept such obstructions in the first minute. Obstruction is an institute when you've used up all your options, let's say when you vote. To get back to fourth grade income class and everything that's supposed to bring it. As I say today, we accept the documents that this has been withdrawn yesterday and that we will not support it today, because there are some negotiations, agreements and we hope that we will come to this in the context of these negotiations with the social partners, and that we will actually find a smart limit where we will also introduce this income class with a level of taxation that must be reasonable. I hope that we will get some small money in this account, which, on the other hand, we need to allocate for these investment and development incentives. Because, only with development, we will start building new jobs and then accelerate the circulation of the country, which is expected to produce positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it from those who have time available for it? I do not see a desire for a re-examination, so I am concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.c. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 2c point of the agenda, which is to a defensive proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In this context, it would be appropriate for him to get the word of the Government. I see that the Minister is coming, who will further explain this proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u62	Nicely greeted! By amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, we introduce or increase the same benefits as the previous Act amending the Law on Income. This is a relief to invest in R & D, which we are increasing to 100%, and to facilitate investment, which we are increasing to 40%, and to remove the limit on the amount of recognised relief. This seems to us to be a necessary measure at this time, because, as you know, again GDP is projected for this year, investments, in particular private investments, are falling year after year. This seems to us perhaps the most effective way to encourage them again. The third measure proposed by this amendment of the law is a gradual reduction in the corporate tax rate, from 20% to 18% this year and then every further year one percentage point down until we reach a 15% rate. Here again the international comparison is somewhat difficult. While some countries in the European Union have a slightly higher level, it is true that when we compare these rates, we must be aware that in many of these countries there are two levels; they say they do not have only one rate, they consider the lower rate to be smaller companies. Secondly, in recent years since 1995, there has been an obvious trend in the reduction of these tax rates in the corporate income tax in virtually all countries. Some of those by which we usually follow our example have also been reduced by 10 percentage points and by 5 percentage points, while Slovenia here has reduced it by 5 percentage points. Again, we have this dilemma where we can gain something quickly and easily in our competitiveness. In our view, this is one of these measures. There's something else I'd like to say about the expected financial and economic effects. Let me start with the latter in order to make it clear that this burden of economic activity is being reduced for a measure which seeks to accelerate economic activity. Estimates made using different economic models suggest that this tax change will increase GDP somewhere to 1% and increase employment at around 0.5%, i.e. between 3 and 4 thousand jobs in the private sector. On the other hand, this effect, which is predicted by models, is not reliable, it can be bigger, of course it will not occur overnight, but, for example, in the course of next year, when it will adapt economically to these measures. In short, on the other hand, we can compare the loss or estimated loss of public finances, where we believe that this loss is small or small compared to the effect of a meaningful investment. The deduction estimates are around: a reduction in the corporate income tax rate by 1 percentage point means a decrease of around 32 million in revenue over the year; this year will be less because, according to our estimate, few enterprises will be applying a change in the rate of deposit by year, and this will be shown next year in the calculation of this tax. Another important thing is the effect of relief. Here is the question of how many additional investment incentives will be put in place. The data that we have at our disposal, unfortunately, speak only of those enterprises at entrepreneurial level that have been applying this investment in the past and all else are macroeconomic data. Estimates - some are also mentioned in the material - speak of a possible drop of up to 100 million. Of course, given the actual realization of these reliefs, this failure can also be reduced; this is an extreme assessment. Which is also very important if we evaluate this through these models, it would show us that the drop will actually be smaller, about half smaller, because we would also take into account the increase in economic activity. We wanted to be conservative and therefore have not yet included our assessments of these secondary effects, but this will be possible as soon as the actual effects of this law are visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Yesterday, on 16 April 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on corporate income tax. This law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, proposing that the proceedings be conducted on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In doing so, the Legislative and Legal Service, in the context of its general comments, proposed to amend the title of the law and, in the context of specific comments, referred to provisions 2 and 7 of the draft law. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled amendments to Articles 2, 7 and 7 and to the title of the legislative proposal. On the same day, the Group of Social Democrats tabled an amendment to delete Articles 3 and 5 of the legislative proposal. In the supplementary explanation for the articles, the Minister of Finance stressed that the text presented was part of a tax package of measures aimed at encouraging, reviving and further stimulating the economy. This is the main objective of introducing a lower tax rate in providing additional free resources to the part of the economy that operates with positive results, thus increasing economic growth and employment. Within the framework of the main solutions, the text sends a signal to both the public and the economy that with planned growth and development, especially with a higher employment rate, Slovenia is renewing. On the other hand, the introduction of a higher investment facility is a suitable basis for both new investments and employment. In spite of this, the expected reduction in tax liability with parallel stimulating effects on the economy, mainly due to the creation of new jobs, can be expected to increase gross social product by one or two years. At the time of the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of that service stated that a specific comment was made on the ambiguities of Article 2 in the part where the provision did not explicitly define the so-called other similar rights. In the debate, the text was supported by the coalition Members, while concerns were expressed by the opposition, particularly with regard to the proposed solutions, in particular with regard to the reduction of the tax rate. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, to Articles 2 and 7 and to the title of the legislative proposal. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a law is part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Nationals of Gregor Virant. Mr Bojan Starman will present the opinion on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. If we adopt this law, this will be another good message for our entrepreneurs, who are likely to be very pleased with the decision to adopt this law or additional tax relief. The law makes the same as the law on income, but it is the institutions or users of the other, these are legal persons, businesses in practice. It is also increasing the overall relief for all investments, increasing the facilitation of investment in development that does not have a limitation. The only difference is that there is a much greater impact on our cash register here, which is not a big problem if at least roughly what has been said in the presentation is that with the input, the eventual reduced income, we will make 4 to 5 thousand new jobs in the budget, or we will provide so much and so much better conditions for people to work. We've got about 86,000 companies. In last year, some 30,000 people paid income or corporate income tax and brought in €629 million in cash, so that this cost, I wanted to say earlier, is significantly lower than the revenue of the increase in gross added product and the revenue of the state treasury due to a higher number of jobs. This is one of the very important measures that is important that it is taken quickly. I have to say that we are very poorly competitive, I repeat this, a few more measures need to be added quickly, especially to increase competitiveness, a reduction in labour taxation will have to be made, a more flexible labour market will have to be made, and perhaps once again it would be right, as I said before, to cut off paid lunch time and for the longer working time that everyone in the world has. In short, a few more measures will be very useful and necessary. By doing so, we can benefit those who are still holding their head above water or who are doing positive business and who have an idea of how they can develop better and create greater value or find new jobs. We are therefore pleased to be able to support this proposal today, and I hope that entrepreneurs will be very pleased with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. In part, this amendment is linked to the previous point of the daily legislation, i.e. to the earlier amendments and additions to the income law, namely the work relating to the increase in investment incentives and incentives for investment in research and development. However, the second amendment to this Act concerns a measure which will have an impact on the increase in economic activity by a gradual reduction of 20% of the corporate tax rate today, which would gradually reduce this tax in the next three years, so that at the end of 15% of the tax base. According to the Ministry of Finance, this proposal and the proposed changes in the Income Act will have a positive impact on the increased liquidity of economic operators, on the increase in population spending, all of which will contribute to a renewed economic start-up. In the DeSUS Group, we also agree with this novel and will support it. As already stated in the position on the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Income Act, we are aware that much more will have to be done than the two novels under consideration today, of course if we want to save something and, on the other hand, start our economy, which will give us the opportunity to continue to do good work and, of course, improve our situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Vice President! Yes, this time the government and the coalition are coming with a proposal to amend the law, where it is not asking what this country can do for me, but in this case we are finally asking the right question: what can we do to make this public sector as successful as possible, so that it can be as successful as possible, but we need the right foundation, a solid foundation, and that is the economy. Without it, of course, there's nothing, everything else falls if there's no foundation. Therefore, we can clearly and clearly say that the reduction of the corporate income tax by 2015 is one of the fundamental economic measures, including the programme of the Slovenian People's Party. This is one of these foundations, a lot of this is coming. If we really want our companies, especially those that are export oriented, to be able to compete with products, technology, services, we must give them, first as a country, an opportunity, the starting points they have in comparable countries. Some of the criticisms of opposition Members go primarily towards the proposed measure reducing budgetary revenues and requiring us to further tighten the belt. That, colleagues and colleagues, is simply not true. For the longer term, it is the only pipe that will infuse in a glass of public consumption. There's no other way. Your Honor! If we do not also tax our companies, many of them will no longer be able to pay any more, or worse, their tax, of course lower, will be able to pay in other countries. Over the past three years, I hope we have learned that a long-term or constant reduction in budget revenues must also mean a reduction in expenditure, because foreign financial resources are once the end, and if not the end, they are simply too expensive. It is therefore time for us to take a closer look at ourselves in the medium term — and in the future of the country — and also to reflect on what someone will pay for the budget tomorrow and the morning, and not only what we can take from it today. And what we take today, we take and still take at the expense of future generations, which is unacceptable. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome this measure because it truly shows a different understanding of economic policy towards putting the real sector, i.e. the entrepreneurial sector first in that country and the public sector as a parallel sector, as helping this economic sector. We all know that only a functioning advanced economy, i.e. the only advanced economy, provides a social state, decent pensions, quality education, health care and so on. We just have to admit that. We therefore absolutely support these limited measures in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The solutions proposed are those for which we believe, as the minister said they bring new jobs and a new influx for public consumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the New Slovenia programme, we have written, inter alia, that taxes and contributions must be determined in accordance with the principles of tax fairness or impartiality. The tax system, which should contribute effectively to progress, must not stifle citizens' personal initiative and motivation. We estimate that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is a step in the right direction. We would like to point out that this is the government's bold proposal, that it is an incentive measure and that when we listen to the economy, the economy says that the measure is good, and that it must continue in this direction. In Novi Slovenija we say that Slovenia must now offer more than comparable countries or as the average of Europe. Why? Because we're lagging behind. We need to offer more to be interesting to domestic investors and also to foreign investors. The proposal for a new Law on corporate income tax will be welcomed by the New Slovenia Group, mainly because the proposal proposes amendments such as: firstly, a gradual reduction in the tax rate from 20% to 15% by 2015, in the transitional period until 2015, the following tax rates will be proposed for this year 18%, for the following year 17% and for 2014 16% and, as it is said, for 2015 15%. Another time. The restructuring of the investment facility in a way that would increase the percentage of reliefs from 30% to 40% of the invested amount in equipment and intangible assets, and the upper threshold for facilitating the use of 30 000 euros. Third time. It is proposed to increase the general tax relief for R & D investment from 40% to 100% of the amount of R & D investment. This, of course, leads to the lifting of additional regional aid to invest in research and development in less developed areas of the country. However, it cannot be more than 100 %. We argue that if we are to have the best social policy, we must also have the best and enough jobs. This is a simple formula, but the more simple the formulas are, the harder it is to realize them and keep them permanently in good condition. This is also a real step towards making the economy more technologically restructured and that we will again have real economic operators or. jobs with a higher additional value. That we will not be in the field of international production of co-operation, as it sounds, just "lonarbeiters". The Group supports the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Patricia Šulin on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! The financial crisis and the euro crisis, which also affected Slovenia, and the forecast of a deeper recession in 2012 also call for an immediate decommissioning of the economy, thus relaunching economic growth. In order for the tax measures to be reflected as soon as possible in the decommissioning of the economy, they must be implemented as soon as possible. The objectives of the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax are based on the objectives of the Treaty for Slovenia 2012-2015, which are primarily to ensure conditions for re-launching the country. Amendments to the law are incentive tax measures, which have been positively adopted in the economy also because private sector investments are declining year-to-year. The draft law proposes to amend the three articles of the existing law, namely, Article 55 of the existing law, which proposes to increase the general tax relief for investment in research and development from 40% to 100% relief, which is why the existing regional facilitation is lifted. The transitional provision provides that taxable persons who, prior to the entry into force of this Act, have an unused part of the regional relief from past tax periods may reduce the tax base for that amount in the following tax periods. The easing of R & D investment and the facilitating of investment do not add up, this means that the liability for the equipment for which it imposes R & D investment relief cannot, at the same time, impose an investment relief and vice versa. Article 55a proposes the creation of an investment facility in a way that would increase the relief rate from 30 % to 40 % of the invested amount in equipment and intangible assets, while at the same time eliminating the maximum value of the limitation of such relief, which has been EUR 30 000 so far. In Article 60, as regards the tax rate, it is proposed to gradually reduce the tax rate from 20% to 15% from 2015 onwards. The bill fully constitutes an improvement in the conditions for the start-up of the economy and promotes faster growth, so the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u76	Respected and respected! Once again, a law that radically reduces public finances. In 2012, the impact of this law will result in a decrease of €170 million and €266 million for the whole period until 2015, which will radically increase our structural deficit. It is the illusion of a neoliberal paradigm that we will achieve restructuring of the economy, its heavy unloading and a new economic boom by means of such burdens. It's a ghost. The general model of analysis and the general model of balance also shows that this law will have minimal effects on all elements of gross domestic product. Moreover, this is also claimed by distinguished economists, former Finance Minister Dr. Marble believes that this is a populist action by the Government, which will not increase neither the demand nor the economic growth. The marble continues to influence additional investment incentives, reductions in corporate income tax rates and similar measures from past experience and calculations that effects are negligible or even negative. Moreover, analyses by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Monetary Fund also show that the impact of tax reductions on economic growth is very low. It is particularly low in cases of small open economies such as Slovenia. The Institute for Economic Research has clearly demonstrated that, in the absence of any change in the level of corporate income tax, such a reduction in the rate of corporate income does not result in major changes in macroeconomic aggregates, while at the same time increasing the budgetary deficit, interest payments and gross debt. On the other hand, positive effects can only be increased with a simultaneous but radical increase in foreign investment. Prof. Bole, on the other hand, argues that fiscal intervention multipliers by lowering taxes are generally significantly or half less than the intervention of multipliers by increased public financial spending and the effects on the public financial balance are the same. The proposed adjustments to the tax system are therefore aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the economy in the long term, and with the current economic and political orientation, they have nothing in common to close the public financial balance as quickly as possible. In fact, they are only continuing where the tax reform ended in 2006. And what did the tax reform bring in 2006? EUR 900 million of reduced inflows to the state budget, with increased inflows due to Virant's tax reform amounting to EUR 250 million and new rights amounting to EUR 60 million. Thus, it has had a reduced impact on public finances by €200 million. If there were no wrong moves by the then government in 2007, I would have ended up with a deficit of between 2% and 3% in 2011. Without intervention in the single recapitalisation of banks and important economic operators, the deficit would certainly have ended below 2 % of gross domestic product. Why was our government in charge? Because in this way, we have in an inexorable way remedied the mistakes of your first government. Selective economic benefits are welcome. We would like to support them, too, and they make sense when the general tax rate is high enough. Where is Slovenia, in fact, in this comparison? We can see – and this is an analysis of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana – that Slovenia is already tax-beneficiary in terms of corporate income taxation. That countries that are significantly more competitive are significantly more innovative and, believe me, are also significantly more interesting for foreign direct investment, countries which also have an effective higher tax rate than that of legal persons. France 31 %, United Kingdom 28 %, Germany 28 %, Luxembourg 25 %. Taking into account the reduction in the general rate and the selective reliefs, you will achieve an effective rate of this tax of less than 10%. We're afraid it won't work. The effect, and this will be negative, this law will only have on public finances. In terms of incentives for the economy, focus on its key problems. The key problem of the economy is its over-indebtedness when Slovenia's gross external debt increased from €15 billion to €39 billion during the first Janša government. This problem is a problem that demands [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Policy, we recommend you go after it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and on the amendment tabled to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm asking you to report to the debate. Three panellists have been reported. To begin with, I give my word to Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Once again, we are in an interesting situation where we are trying to explain on the one hand that we are reducing taxation on the economy, and on the other hand we are talking about the fiscal balance or balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In all these cases, we are trying to prove that these two are not going together and that they are not doing exactly what is right. There was also a lot of talk at the previous item on the agenda, which in some ways also concerns this point. This is a course of action which, in our view, leads in the wrong direction. It would be a test once again if someone said that someone said 170 million euros would be left to the economy and that is why we would have so many new jobs. It was said that 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, if we continued, would have reached 10,000 jobs. But it would be good to write in absolute terms what the unemployment rate is going to be, whether there will be 110 000, 100,000, 111 000; to write that down and that this is our criterion for assessing whether the proposed measures were those that helped the economy. I also think that the underlying reason for the economy is the overindebted economy, the failure of banks to do their job. They're probably doing it, like the banks think it's right, but not for what's right to get the economy out of this situation. Is that why we're going to have a reduced credit crunch? Are we going to do something to make this spasm better so the economy gets credit? It's not gonna happen. And when we talk about the measures tomorrow or the day after, about the insolvency of companies, we will find that they are largely responsible for this bank and, consequently, the system of overindebted companies. However, I would take time to read what has happened in recent years and, if we have done the right thing in the past years, in 2004 to 2008, we have introduced a tax reform that has reduced the public financial inflows by EUR 900 million. That's what Mr. Frangez was talking about. The change in the income scale was €160 million, a reduction in the corporate tax rate of €114 million, the abolition of the pay tax of €637 million, that is 900 million. However, the reduction in taxes did not improve competitiveness, as the external trade deficit has deteriorated significantly and in 2008 it reached almost EUR 2 billion and EUR 500 million or over EUR 6 million of gross social product. The reduction in taxes increased domestic consumption and affected rapid inflation. This has further reduced competitiveness in the system with wage indexation. If we say that Virant's so-called reform of the salaries of public servants was introduced in 2008, it has increased the public spending by EUR 250 million. Of course, a lot of other things have happened. Our amendment that the rate remains the same as it was, that is 20%, means that in this case we are trying to maintain income at a level that was at least in 2011 and that we can make any further change at that time, and also in this way we are trying to increase the competitiveness of the economy in the right areas, not in areas that, in our opinion, do not bring the success that we should want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I believe that in our country you are also economic financial experts not clear what is facilitating the development of the economy, what is accelerating growth and what is reducing it. I have witnessed this for many years and it seems that there is no recipe; for if there were recipes, very exact and predictable, then we would not be in the situation as we are. Nevertheless, I am surprised by the argument made by the Group of Social Democrats, which notes that taxes on the income of legal persons in Slovenia are already too low. This is compared with other countries, and there is no indication that those countries are not an optimist. In some ways, it has to be accelerated. How many times have I listened to, economists continue to say that the burden of the economy needs to be reduced. This measure, these changes go in this direction. Of course, it is from the political needs to prove that other instruments, some imaginary instruments at the moment, would be more useful, more effective, and would sooner bring positive changes. I believe that there are still so many healthy companies and even those who are willing to take more bold steps to reduce taxation and other reliefs, and in this way actually go into a new cycle that will eventually bring benefits. When it was said earlier that this was very wrong, it was also said that the former government had in an unfavorable way remedied the mistakes of the predecessors. I cannot agree with this, for to say that the debt was painless – today we have the extremely severe consequences of excessive indebtedness and the current government is looking for a way out of this dead end. Once again, I regret to say that the largest party in Parliament does not want to think about it, does not want to participate. Because it was a beautiful day outside, they took a day off; and yesterday, when it rained, they were here, today, when it was a good day, but they were not there. How can we look to the future? What do economists in this country think today? I also take this amendment as constructive because we have at least a basis for discussion, to exchange ideas that we are exchanging views. But they imagine that they are successful economists, that they are representatives of the economy, that they have a lot of financial experts, and they do not want to participate in the debate in Parliament. Such anarchic behavior is the most repulsive thing for me. For those of us who cooperate, it doesn't matter whether this country is going to collapse or whether it's going to go into chaos on the basis of tomorrow's anarchist show of unions! We have to ask ourselves here whether we are capable of having instruments to drive the country out of these dangers, including through legal solutions. I think that the attitude of government measures is positive, because something needs to be moved in any case. And also at the symbolic level – because I don't know what the effects will be – will give the economy a signal: we think of you, we know that added value is the only thing that can lead the country out of trouble in the long term. If any of the parties think primarily of taxes, which also finance the public sector, this is legitimate, but I think the Government is thinking constructively and positively. Last but not least, when you say what a mistake it was between 2006 and 2007 – yes, at the actual level was the result of a conjuncture, I remember the conjuncture. However, when the situation changed, there was ample opportunity for the former government to introduce these financial instruments, not to say that it had been slightly corrected by the mistakes of the previous government. That way was extremely painful and will be felt by the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u82	First of all, what we are proposing with the amendment. In Article 5, we propose to keep the tax rate at 20% in 2012, 2013 and 2014, and then lower it as proposed by the Government. In this way, we will save the country 266 million euro in these years of fiscal consolidation and reduce public financial revenues. This is a third of the amount, this is a poor half of the amount you are trying to save with radical cuts in the public sector and social transfers. We recommend that you seriously consider this, especially because all the findings, international comparisons and respected economists argue that there will be no major impact on the recovery of the economy due to reduced corporate income tax. We do not claim, Mr Jerovšek, that the corporate income tax in Slovenia is too low, as you can see. We claim that according to the state of things, it is appropriate. We also argue that, given the tax that other countries, which are significantly more competitive than we are, are significantly more innovative than we are and also have a significantly higher share of foreign direct investment in their GDP. That's all we say. It is therefore simply a delusion that by reducing the corporate tax rate from 20% to 15%, we will experience the economic boom that can be heard in today's debate. Don't make the wrong impression that our proposals are directed at the economy. On the contrary! Since we have been pointing out the wrong economic policy of the Government – and we have started with laws such as the Income Act and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons – we note that this reduces public finances and does not solve the key problem of the Slovenian economy. The key problem with the Slovenian economy is that it is indebted; that gross external debt has grown more in a very short period of four years than in 15 years of Slovenian independence. We still have a relatively stable picture in public finances. Let us eliminate those sources of instability that cause this debt to grow rapidly. This is mainly pension reform, a large scale of the grey economy and so on. Otherwise, we are here at 48%, which is certainly among the better performances between European and European countries. There's our problem. This is a picture of the movement of the structural deficit. This is the period of Janša's first government. Here we see, after the blue line, that the structural deficit has collapsed, and that is also why the government's debt to Borut Pahor was painful, as Mr Jerovšek said. It hurts. Because we have tried and largely eliminated the negative effects of the previous period. Why are we saying this? It's not about turning this House into a arena where we're constantly accusing ourselves of who's to blame. The point is that if we want to treat the current situation, we need to know not only the diagnosis, and it seems that the government majority is ignoring half of the diagnosis, but we also need to know how we got this diagnosis, so what happened was that we got sick. But this is not because it is not about who is to blame, it is about focusing and agreeing on what is really wrong in this country. Yes, public debt is part of the problem and its rapid growth, while the other part of the problem is overindebted economy. We have already made some proposals, but unfortunately the coalition has not responded. We're reading about some funds. Our idea is very clear: with the fund, with the so-called corporate tournament fund, let's try to smartly manage inherited investments, especially those we have in banks, by attracting private investors, thereby giving them additional fresh capital, to enable them to restructure these inherited investments. On the other hand, it is certainly necessary to exceed the credit crunch. Here is the only measure promised by the Government, so far the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by private investors. My fear is that in a very cheap way we will actually lose the majority of the shares we have in this bank in the amount of EUR 400 million. It's not some local bank, it's not an extremely large and depraved bank, it's a bank that foreign investors estimate had a relatively conservative investment policy. I would like to point out that, after years of weakening, probably two, the time will come when this bank will be making a profit. And make sure that the one-year profit of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank will not be about as much as the amount for which you will sell this bank. We did not just focus our eyes on politics, we also focused our eyes on the central bank, and we said that we should consider a little bit of the capital requirements of the bank. This would be invaluable for the start of lending to our economy in order for the economy to have the right resources. It's a real economic policy. I suggest that we stop looking for solutions in some neoliberal paradigms that will ultimately fail to produce results, only on a radical negative impact in public finances will they know each other. Let's look at the problems, tell the problems to my eyes, and try to solve them. The adoption of the amendment, as proposed by the Social Democrats, will be a good start for this path.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. There are no more applicants in this circle, but time has not yet run out. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] There are more debates, I am opening another debate. The time to report is running. Three have been re-registered for discussion. The first is Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u84	Nice greetings again, comrades and colleagues, Minister! I've been thinking about what to say to this amendment, and I've been thinking about how this amendment of the Social Democrats could support it, and then it came to my head to remember the last budgets of the last three years of social democracy. If you remember in 2008, when we left the coalition or there were new parliamentary elections, there were 69 million euros plus in the budget. Well, this amendment of the Social Democrats would even be supported if they also wrote that, irrespective of Article 60 of the Law, the tax is paid at a rate of 20% of the tax base for 2012, 2013, 2014 and the country, for the first time, additionally in 2012 EUR 1.4 billion, for the next year EUR 1.8 billion and for the following year EUR 1.7 billion. This is where the Social Democrats would make a dot and end. And what then — we are worse off than in the Greek script! This means that such an amendment is totally unacceptable and complete nonsense. Since you have had the opportunity to feel what you have been doing, this is what we all feel in this country and what is worst is the economic foundation being undermined. That's on one side. On the other hand, the debt is so catastrophic that in a dream a person should not have hoped or hoped for anything that could be done; on the third hand, not only will this debt have to be paid by the next generation, the interest has become so high that today we have a headache and will have a long headache. On the third page, there is simply no other measure besides reducing public spending – finally – but not today, unfortunately not today, to that level of revenue – therefore, there may also be expenditure at this level. But we're still going to have to make an additional charge this year for more than 1 billion, and we're going to have to pay that back, and we're going to have to pay big interest for that too. But it is abnormal to see entrepreneurs, economists, the whole real sector as some corrupt entrepreneurs waiting to cheat the country, how they will put everything in their pocket, how they will take it to the Cayman Islands and so on. It is true that those of us who were in the previous mandate of the Alenka Jeraj investigative commission have been identified by a number of gentlemen from Ljubljana as taking capital to the Cayman Islands. At 25 years of age! Can you imagine? These are entrepreneurs who drive 140 000 euros of expensive Mercedes, have 25 million euros, spend more than a million euros in one year. They're entrepreneurs. How'd it go with their high schools? Somewhere else they did the exams when they went to school. In short, you're freaking out! Really! They're probably entrepreneurs you think you're thinking about thinking about how to get the country into a cant, how to get rich in a quick way, but I hope – given that I know a lot of tax documents, as a member of the commission of inquiry, I've had a chance to see this – that the authorities will finally do something. You know, colleagues from Social Democracy, if your policy were at least a little consistent, then you wouldn't be the only one who's imported the country in three years. In 20 years, you're the only one who's ever done it. Today, we have no choice but to give an infusion through the economy alone. Without the economy, this can be completely clear to us, there will be no pensions, no jobs in public administration, and it will be disastrous in all areas of social life if we do not do so. The fact is that only by giving the economy comparable starting points as they do in neighbouring countries – of course we cannot, but it is clear to whom we must compare. Yeah, with the developed ones! Listen, though, why does the economy flourish normally in Switzerland, Austria, Germany!? Everyone's moving on, we're the only ones in this part of Europe! That's not normal! Of course, in the way we've been working or working for the last three years, it's not going to work. I believe that these multiplier effects will bring what we want in the coming months: new jobs, economic development and thus greater prosperity for everyone in this country. We just don't have a choice. That's why my initial enthusiasm for the amendment's support has completely waned, because I don't want this commitment, which we're still going to have for one billion euros with this rebalancing, which is problematic, but it's not easy without it. I hope that, because of all these measures taken, as the Minister of Economy said yesterday, the European Commission will also release the possibility of further use of resources from operational programmes where approx. 3.5 billion Euros are still unspent, and the Government will be able to agree with the Commission to redirect to those projects that are feasible, but not to those that have only been inflated and cannot be implemented. Therefore, such an amendment as the Social Democrats have prepared, I mean, you can't even imagine how they can come up with such a proposal in this serious situation that we are in today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! However, I did not intend to re-apply to the word, but given that there are often one and the same things, the data that is actually searching for the culprit from the past, etc., although it was once said a few months ago that we will not look back, I did. However, not because of the controversy here and because of this, and because of this, how some other government has been more successful, but mainly because of the need to clarify some of the fundamentals of what some tax reform or legislative change has brought. That's why, in fact, one more time. [[...]] It has been repeatedly said here that 900 million is the amount that the country would receive more. 900 million — for what? 900 million — compared to what? How is this 900 million defined? In view of the new situation in 2007, 2008, in view of the economic growth that took place in 2007, 2008, this was not the case in 2005? There's something left unanswered. Since the changes were made in 2006, a different environment has been created for the economy, which has led to greater economic growth in the period since there was more economic growth, higher profits, higher employment, more contributions, more income and so on and so on. And not only will it depend on this: of course, there has been a global European conjuncture. And that was that we wouldn't say it like that. However, if we simply transfer it according to the conditions, according to the state of some degree in the past, and then at the beginning of 2009 we were helped to calculate it at the Ministry of Finance, then this is it; now this data is spinning – it is very problematic from this point of view in my behavior. Second thing we have to say. At the time, the economy started, then the economy went up, and even higher rates of work would have made a little more income or income. Here was the so-called well-known tax on paid wages, which was a unique tax in Europe and in the world, at a progressive tax rate, with a maximum tax rate of 50%, additionally taxed wages. It was those days. It is also important to look at when the first decision was taken to abolish the tax on wages paid. I'm also not quite sure that this was in the time of the Janša government. Mr. Robb once told me that he had already accepted this tax to be abolished. Maybe you should check it out. Maybe that's how it used to be. Anyway, it did, and it's the right thing to do. This amendment, which is fully legitimate, raises the question whether higher rates also represent higher revenues. The history of taxes, the history of countries shows that this is not always the case. In view of the fact that colleague Frangež referred to some scientists, experts, etc. From the Faculty of Economics, we can look at the basics in Laffer's curve. It is easy to see that increasing rates do not generate ever-increasing revenues; for various reasons, capital flight, because people do not have the will to entrepreneurship because the economy is overburdened, etc. The comparison I have already mentioned is, of course, still quite questionable. Now, speaking of some scientists and experts in the field of taxation, I think these people are more experts in some other field. We can also look at Nobel Prize winner Milton Friedman and see what he says about this, how he talks about taxes, how much taxes there should be and what kind of enterprise initiative should be. We'll come up with different opinions, ideas. After all, I am glad that these opinions are actually said here, but what is said is that higher taxes mean higher growth, higher revenues, greater economic prosperity as mentioned here, that is simply not true. Or that this does not hold that this is just because of this, but in some countries perhaps because of a lot of other things, which I have already talked about before, and I will not repeat myself now. Of course, we are also talking about gross external debt. Here we have to say what a gross external debt is. Gross external debt is the debt of the country, the population and the economy. No government or government of Janez Janša can influence the debt of the economy and the population. Here all operators on the market are autonomous and should be aware of this. Of course, they are also aware of this and their responsibilities and so on. We can say that then certain things regarding indebtedness did not go in the right direction, but we should also look at the powers and responsibilities of the government in this case. There is no government that is actually responsible if people or economists are in charge. However, the government is responsible if the state is indebted and the state has committed once more between 2009 and 2012, to 16 billion – I think it was 7.8 billion at the beginning. We now have a debt of 48% of gross social product or debt of 16 billion, which means 700 million interest to be paid by future generations. The higher tax rates, the greater burden on the economy here do not mean prosperity and automatically do not mean higher revenues. This has been demonstrated in many and many ways both in Slovenia and in other European countries. Anyway, I'm glad we're looking for solutions together, including recapitalisation and so on. However, with regard to the requirement or idea of a capital reduction or reduction of the capital ratio for banks and referrals to the central bank, it should be noted that we have Basel III here, which provides for capital adequacy. Slovenia is part of the euro, part of the monetary union and cannot work beyond the directives adopted in the euro area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. In the introduction, I can say that I agree with all those debaters who say that it is not good to accuse one government, another government of who is guilty and responsible, what is the situation today. However, I certainly think it is very important that we all learn something from this period, and this is also, in my opinion, the meaning of the data we have at our disposal, both from Drnovsk's governments, Janšev's government, the Pahor's government, and not least the state in which we are today. When we talk about this data, however, it is undeniable that the actual gross debt is 39 billion and has increased from 2004 to 2008 from 15 billion to 39 billion. Of course, the debt of the economy, the state, the people, everything is taken into account. They're holding all this information. However, the fact is that during that period a tax reform was adopted, which according to the Ministry of Finance estimates was a fall of EUR 900 million. I agree that this assessment may be somewhat lower, it may be higher in terms of economic growth, given all these developments, but the fact is that if we assess the measure as a measure to reduce the tax on wages paid, that is, to reduce the tax on the income of legal persons, the income scale. When we draw the line and figure out where we are today, we find that all of this has not brought economic growth. That's the problem. That's the problem! However, there is no doubt that we have an over-indebted economy and that we have indisputably over-indebted state banks. That's a fact, that's a result. If we look at what the Social Democratic Government has done. We decided to try to save the banks. That's why the state was in debt for one billion to save the banks. A different view of the Social Democrats from all those we are talking about here today is that one of you are saying that the state must not solve banks, that it should be left to the open market, and that one who has the opportunity to become co-owner of banks and the problem will be solved. However, we do not realize that when we lose state banks, when we lose insurance companies, when we lose important shares in our most important companies, we lose our development policy. That's the problem. We therefore oppose neoliberalism and this open approach, where no one really wants to learn anything from what has been wrong in the work of all governments so far. In our view, it was wrong that during the period of economic growth the economy was further burdened by the then tax reform and this relief did not go into development, but clearly went into the ownership and outflow of capital from Slovenia into various tax havens, which provide safe for a whole bunch of money that would still be needed in Slovenia today. And that's a mistake. This was wrong, so we have problems in Slovenia today. The difference between what we Social Democrats have done in the last three years and what we are trying to tell us, that we have not been listening to the economy and so on, is only that we have received into our hands, if I may say so, again, the indebted economy and the indebted banks. How can you save the economy and banks when economic growth declines when a new crisis arises? And there was a crisis! We have ruled as social democrats in the crisis. This is a significant difference from all previous governments. And to pretend that the debt was incurred in the country because we Social Democrats caused the global crisis is indeed an incorrect illustration of these facts. For if we had so much power that the Social Democrats in Slovenia could cause a global crisis, I assure you, we would have saved it today. The fact is, it was necessary to help businesses. The fact is that jobs had to be kept, so we also subsidised working hours, introduced reduced working hours, helped people who were waiting for the moment the order came and companies could start working again. However, the fact is that in the public sector we had too high or higher wages due to the tax reform or wage reform of the then government. Is that true or not true? It's a fact. And if we did not stop the Social Democrats from implementing this wage reform, Virant's reform, today would not be a 250 million euro burden because of this, but already 500 million euros. We are just trying to say that we had to stop this trend and that we had to commit ourselves if we wanted to keep a free child in kindergarten, if we wanted to allow municipalities to spread kindergartens if we wanted to pay for free lunches and transports and I don't know what else was not introduced at the time of economic growth since the then government that led this policy. Note this, and let us learn that when it is possible to save, there is no saving. Today, however, public spending is crumbling. We're all in a very difficult position. If I go back specifically to this law. It is incomprehensible that we are talking about the need to reduce spending by €800 million this year, while today we are talking about a law that will amount to 240 million outages in this budget. It just doesn't work out. What worries me more about this marriage is that. In fact, the Social Democrats were also the only ones in all governments to introduce concrete measures in the areas most affected by the economic and financial crisis, namely Pomurje and Pokolpe. Specific legislation and specific measures through the law on promoting coherent regional development, for economic growth, for employment, for the construction of infrastructure and all other necessary measures required by such areas. Indeed, the differences in the development of these two areas were too large and we have therefore taken concrete measures. What does this law introduce? This law equates the terms and conditions of tax reduction from corporate income for investment in development, regardless of where the company is. It means that you are reinvigorating the differences between the developed work of Slovenia and the work which was entitled to additional development incentives. Our proposal today, if we were to be asked what we are proposing about corporate income tax, is that we exempt the tax on the income of legal persons from the timber industry by 100%. This is a solution that we can actually successfully implement. We have raw materials, unexploited, processing industries are failing, but we do not do it with this law, but we do it for all sectors – it will fall under our noses and we have our own raw materials. This is a fundamental difference between the Social Democrats and what is enshrined in this law. In addition, I warn that developmental differences will once again increase between the areas most affected by the economic and financial crisis and those with less developmental problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The time for discussion is not yet over, so I'm asking if anyone else wants to apply and discuss it? Is there anyone else, or can we give the word to Mr Jerovsk? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Jerovšek, you are the only one, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u90	Mr Weber's latest implementation would have had a question. If, after some analyses, they have found that the solution for Slovenia is 100% tax evasion to the woodworking industry, and if this is possible – I do not think that it is possible within the European Union – why did you not propose this? We've always had wood as a raw material. In recent years, even during your government, logging has only deteriorated. We sold more and more logs to our neighbors, but we had fewer and fewer final products, and the woodworking industry was playing, and it was shutting down. If that were possible, I think that such a proposal should be put on the table. With this amendment you have now given something to discuss, and in this sense you are constructive, unlike Positive Slovenia, which has proved to be "negative Slovenia". I also see advantages in the woodworking industry, but such a thing should be put on the table, supported by some analyses, proposed to the Government and so on. However, given that you did not propose this at a time when the woodworking industry started to play very hard, but you had these instruments, I think that this is the proposal you put into discussion more so, you do not have this worked out, but at the same time you think it will work. In all your performances, you defended yourself as if anyone said you were the worst client. I don't think you did. I think that those who define themselves as Positive Slovenia are worse off because they do not perform at all, they do not want to participate in the rescue of the country, today when we talk about economic facilitation, development support and so on. So, I would conclude with this: if we are constructive and if we want to help, then every constructive proposal really needs to be put to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I note that the time for discussion is only left for this party, so I ask whether there is still a desire for a debate. Mr Weber, your time together has passed, so you no longer have time to discuss. Not even for the replica. Given that I do not see any desire here after the debate, we are closing the debate and we will decide on the amendment in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, that is, in half an hour, that is, at 13.15 a.m. I also hereby adjourn the second session of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 1:15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the National Assembly on decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2a of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012 following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Nobody. Individually? Not at all. Then we'll vote. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 6. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] Maybe the voting device didn't work for anybody? It's all right. Good. I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the interruption of item 2.b of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled in Article 4. We have an amendment to Article 4 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Explanation of voice. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Frangež, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u93	Parliament has a great opportunity in this vote to show an important signal. This is a signal that we want to build a just society in this country as a foundation from which we will build increased trust for what Slovenia must do on the road to fiscal consolidation. All the burdens in this society are not equally shared. While the process of fiscal consolidation takes on those who are the weakest, young families, young moms, children, teachers, police, unemployed people, the type of recipients of social transfers in our society, it is right to show that there is another structure in this society that is good for people. By voting for a new income class with a 50% tax on income of more than €60,000 gross, that is, when an individual earns a net salary of more than €2,000 700 per month, we will give such a sign that we are prepared with a smarter, fairer and more solidarity-based redistribution of social burdens to give a clear signal that this Slovenia remains a just society at the end of this journey and that we will strengthen justice in this society. The government coalition, which has rejected this amendment in this debate so far, has referred to the course of the negotiating process, so it has the opportunity here for the social partners in this difficult negotiation process to make it very clear that it is willing to do something for those who have the most in this society. I respectfully invite you to support the amendment of social democracy, the Social Democrats will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will explain his vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have already said in the debate that the New Slovenia Group will not support this amendment of colleagues of the Social Democrats. It is indeed a harsh sentence from the explanation, where it says, "In Social Democracy we believe that the burden of the crisis must be borne by those who have caused the crisis." We cannot today turn to those who, with their right, with their knowledge, generate income with their company, with their espionage, or even those who, with their knowledge, deserve a high salary, to point out with their finger that they are guilty of the crisis. And in Slovenia we really need to switch over once as to our thinking about rich citizens and citizens. Not everyone is rich and not everyone has acquired wealth in an unfair way. Earlier I could say that those who are the richest no longer have this property in Slovenia today, but somewhere else called the tax oasis. And it is not true, as has been said before, that I do not wish to be politicized because I am aware of the business arrangement, but this law takes nothing from anyone, at least from families, children and pensioners. When it comes to this amendment, we in Novi Slovenija estimate that it is not good and therefore we reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Anyone want to explain their voice individually? Then I'll just call for an application. I would also like to inform you that I have decided that, in accordance with previous parliamentary practice, we will repeatedly call for explanations of vote. This has been Parliamentary practice so far, although I have proposed a certain rationalisation on the basis of a proposal from the services, which I would think is smart, but we have not reached agreement on this. And since I think we need to have the opposition's consent in order to change parliamentary practice, we will maintain the practice we have so far. The Group of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats have been opposed to this change, we remain in old practice, which certainly does not change the fact that we have to make explanations of our vote in explanation of our vote, not to debate, but to say why we are voting for or against a decision. And now I'm calling for a vote. Mr. Magg has the word. Dejan Židan Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u97	President, thank you very much. For every measure we take or do not take, we are fighting for a social state. That's the way it is in this marriage. It is not only a matter of trying to save the country by mathematically saving at the level of secondary school, counting and dividing it sometimes, but also of achieving, where possible, that some of the burdens that are not necessarily necessary at the moment, but, in particular, do not give any effect, do not take place, or, on the other hand, any new burdens that are the burden of the crisis present, and these crises are not caused by workers, workers, farmers and not pensioners, are fairly distributed, such things need to be supported. And I have to say, I'm relatively sad to see the debate in the National Assembly, because we're looking for some new social consensus. And searching in this way that even conversation is not possible, that our arguments just smile and sometimes with some history that sometimes reaches almost 100 years ago, strike back, this is not the type of conversation that this country needs right now. I also call on you here to reason, because Slovenia will only be able to advance through a social arrangement, but not to act against one another. And that's exactly what this law is. You're not ready to talk, but a consensus could be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment. I also believe that, in fact, it is very simple and expected that we are trying to discuss and propose measures also to balance public finances in a way that we are trying to address as proportionately as possible all taxpayers with an appropriate tax policy. And by this amendment, in fact, we are only proposing to introduce a new income class, which would increase the revenue of the state budget by about €40 million. 40 million euros would contribute to the state budget for those who have the highest income in Slovenia or, if you like, the richest one. And it is true that a large part of the richest is largely responsible for the poor economic situation, because many of these have exhausted Slovenian companies and thus put many workers in a difficult position in many companies. Partly paying for this can also be done by adopting this amendment, as it will not be necessary to talk about the 800 million to be reduced in this year's budget in public spending, but we are talking about 750 and 760, which is a little less. And if there are some families that will not be involved in this, we have already done a lot. I will support the taxation of the richest so that we can also help those who have substantially lower incomes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much to today's newspaper Finance, which is very illustrative, I wouldn't know by myself, showing what the introduction of the new income class means. It means that someone who deserves 3,000 euros a month will give that country an extra iPad or, otherwise, 420 euros. To give the country an 11-day cruise on the island of Bora Bora, who deserves 5,000 euros a month's net salary. And that the one who deserves a month's net of EUR 25 000 will give the country at annual level an extra income of BMW X5 or EUR 59 000. By the way, he'll still have 200 grand left. What does this illustrate, and why is this comparison truly brilliant? Because it shows which segments of their consumption these people will have to give up: an emergency cost of living, such as iPad, something that cannot be survived, such as a trip to Bora Bora, or something that cannot be moved like a luxury SUV. At the same time, we can do this in order to make this society more solidarity and to have a fairer distribution of social burdens and, on the other hand, to take less of those we take after the austerity measures of the current government: young mothers, pensioners, teachers, unemployed people, those we take and reduce in maternity care, eliminate part of the child allowances or reduce meals in secondary school. That's the decision you're making today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you. Once again, I would like to call for an explanation of vote. Mr. Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't want to answer, but I did. Seven eight years ago, I got a lot of calls and requests to do something to change this tax scale. I received calls from Lek and from new companies that employ very successful experts from technical and other professions. They asked me nicely to let them do something to stay with us. All the services, all of these things have moved out of the country because practically 50% of the taxes are 23.8% of the gross wage, plus 16.5. At the time, 14.5% of the additional tax was on the payroll. This means that a worker from, for example, 5,000 Euros was given a thousand 800 Euros in his hands, and everything else was tax and state taxes, which is totally unstimulating. And if we want only workers who have lower wages, then we will not have any contributions or taxes or other matters. That's why I think that's a really stupid question. I'm in favour of taxing the rich that this scale is at 100, 150,000 euros. These people are already paying maximum charges anyway. And it's a shame that we don't realize it and that we're closing doors with this stupid policy, instead of staying in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u105	In my opinion, the amendment needs to be supported because it is not about whether managers are guilty, whether those who are better paid are guilty of such a situation, but whether we can all contribute equally to this critical situation. Maybe they'll go better paid footage out, but maybe it's true that they go out where the owners of a foreign company and the administrations and everything else were taken out of Slovenia. There aren't many cases like this, I can tell you. You can make a comparison between Lek and Krk, and somewhere else, between Gorenje, who wants to do just that moment, and we're not dealing with it. So if we agree on one side, as one of us said here today, that we should be rich for this situation — I am not against the rich — then the answer is: Do you think they are guilty of being poor? Workers? Unemployed? The ones who are hard to live who can't live? The ones that aren't in this building that aren't anywhere else? Is it their fault? They're not guilty! That's why this distribution is between those who can pay and those who can't pay. But something is strange, ladies and gentlemen. It is strange that today we from the opposition are proposing that you reduce the deficit by almost EUR 400 million, which you want almost entirely by reducing wages in the public sector and by some other interventions. It's not right, it's not fair! This amendment, however, introduces justice – to pay more who has more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u106	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Unlike the government, which reduces the rights or resources of more than 40 laws by virtue of my law on public finances, the Social Democrats, by amendment to Article 4 of the Income Act, increase the revenue side of the State budget by 40 million euros. Such proposals should be added to the National Assembly in order to increase the revenue side, not to reduce funds, such as the Health Act, the National Housing Savings Scheme, the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, primary school, kindergartens, guidance of children with special needs, school nutrition, natural disasters, parental protection and family benefits, scholarships, war invalids, war veterans and so on. I propose that you support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 4 in order to raise the revenue side of the state budget by EUR 40 million, so that, as said by colleague Matevž Frangež, those who receive the highest income, who receive more than EUR 3 000 a month, will contribute to the greater budget, and that they also contribute to the well-being of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you. We are moving to vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the 4th member. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 47. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment to Article 4 and thus the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Maybe someone wants an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u109	Unfortunately, the government majority does not take advantage of the opportunity to find a common language with the opposition. Since our amendment was not adopted, it was left unfulfilled only one of the conditions that we have laid down to support this law. Social Democrats will therefore vote against the proposal for a law on income.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Who individually? [[No, no, ……]] We will vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the break of item 2.c of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 April 2012. We have an amendment from the Social Democrats' Group to Article 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please sign up if anyone wants to. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u111	With the amendment to the Law on corporate tax, we propose that the application of a reduction in the tax rate from 20 to 15% should only apply after a difficult period of fiscal consolidation. In 2012 alone, the reduction in the corporate tax rate will cost the state budget €170 million, a quarter of the amount you want to save by your fiscal consolidation measures, which are painful and will end up being paid by people. Consider this step, since this proposal is based on a neoliberal illusion that this kind of economic burden will lead to economic prosperity. He won't. This is clearly demonstrated by the calculations, the beliefs of some prominent Slovenian economists, as well as the general findings of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Finally, this is illustrated by the practice of tax reform and measures during the 2004-2008 government when the overall result of tax changes was mainly a reduction in revenue and an increase in expenditure totalling EUR 200 million. This is also a key reason for us today to have such a deficit and to try to force it, to the detriment of people, in a way that people are paying this burden, forcefully, quickly patched up. We recommend that we reduce the burden that you are currently imposing on people to accept this amendment and that the time of the reduction of the public financial deficit be slightly reduced. Even if you support this amendment, Slovenia will be in line with corporate income taxation among more competitive countries in Europe. Significantly higher taxes are made by countries such as Germany, Sweden, Austria, countries which are more competitive, more innovative and which also attract a significantly larger volume of foreign direct investment. It's a ghost that saves nothing and radically makes our public finances worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u112	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody want to explain their voice? Yeah. I'm giving you a chance to report. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I will particularly support the amendment because, in fact, this law, without the adoption of this amendment, has a drastic impact on areas with major development problems due to the economic and financial crisis. It is, of course, Pomurje as well as Pokolpje, where Bela krajina and Kočevska belong. Although the law itself introduces a very good measure, tax relief for R & D increases from 40% to 100%, but the fact is that this will apply throughout the Republic of Slovenia, thus, of course, eliminating that development incentive in less developed areas, which was adopted by the Pomura Act and by the law on coherent regional development. This law will increase developmental differences in Slovenia, which is quite contrary to what I think we can expect in Slovenia, because more than 50% of people live in rural areas and more than 50% of people will have problems finding jobs, because investment in research and development will not be directed to remote areas, but to areas along motorways, major cities, and this is a completely wrong measure. I also believe that, at a time when we are short of resources in the state budget, we are reducing these funds by an additional 170 million, and I am not surprised that these negotiations with the social partners and the government do not come on the same denominator and cannot come. If we were to reduce the funds available today to resolve this social dialogue, we would solve the situation of a number of individuals in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This is a rare opportunity for opposition Members and Members to say how we feel about the proposed legal solutions that we have been following recently, mainly in the direction of saving and lowering costs. Here's a bill that interferes with the level of corporate income tax. I will not repeat what my colleague Frangež said, what were the results of the expected reductions and measures under the 2004-2008 mandate, but let me add another argument. If we don't, we can save that, just for comparison, 174 million will be less education budget, education – without science and higher education. We give up the income of 170 million in the budget and, with the continued consumption of tax reductions from corporate income, do not cause major changes in macroeconomic aggregates, experts have found. At the same time, budgetary deficits, interest payments and gross debt are further increased. And the positive effects of increased foreign investment are shown only with a significant increase in these investments. That's why I got the amendment of support. But if this amendment does not receive support, then I really cannot vote in favour of a law that is against rational solutions and which would still divide the burden a little more justly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-17-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 5 of the Act. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 46. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended with the vote on the amendment and with this second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. The legal and legal service and the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the law inconsistent, so we can move on to decision-making. We'll decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
