ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Polonca Komar, Mag. Melita Župevc, Renata Brunskole and Matjaž Zanoškar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say, a proposal for a law amending the law on value and recognition of education within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mojci Škrinjar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the context of the amendment to the law currently under consideration, the possibility of carrying out procedures for the determination of equivalence abroad of the titles or addresses obtained through the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport shall be governed by an extension of the transitional period up to 1. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. One year ago, the Law on the Evaluation and Recognition of Education was adopted in the National Assembly, which introduced a change in the approach to the treatment of foreign education in the Slovenian area. Among other things, there is a new law when it enters into force 17. 12. 2011 also abolished the system of equivalency abroad of acquired titles and addresses with Slovenian, which has long been shown to be an inappropriate procedure. In order to avoid a legal void in the field of regulated professions in the Republic of Slovenia, a transitional period of up to 17. 12. 2012, in which these procedures at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport could still be implemented, but only for certain regulated professions. However, the competent ministries are to adapt the sectoral legislation governing the conditions and access to these professions at that time. Individual ministries have not been able to harmonise their legislation at this time and have therefore requested the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport to extend this period further. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has taken into account the request from these ministries and has prepared an amendment to the law. The objective and objective of the amendment are as follows. The proposal to amend the law allows those ministries additional time to adapt the legislation properly and allows holders of foreign educational instruments to access those regulated professions for which equivalence is still required in the field legislation. These are foreign and Slovenian citizens who have completed their education abroad and who want to work in the Republic of Slovenia, but do not have full professional qualifications, that is, they are not fully qualified to carry out their regulated profession. The competent ministries laying down the conditions for the performance of an individual profession in the Republic of Slovenia, including the condition of the appropriateness of the education, must so proceed by 1 at the latest. 6. 2014 harmonise legislation, because then the extension will no longer be possible. The procedures for determining the equivalence of titles of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport will no longer be implemented after the expiry of the period. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the search for and determination of equivalence remains of the former procedures for the nostration of foreign diplomas, which are regarded in the international space as inadequate and outdated practice and are being phased out in Slovenia, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European Region, of which Slovenia is also a signatory. The proposal to amend the law also regulates the processing of applications that may be submitted within the period from 17. 12. 2012 until the application of the Law. In this regard, the amendment of the law takes into account the legislative and legal service proposal regarding the timing of the proposed amendments with the possible moment of publication of the law in the Official Gazette. This is how the novel works for the public benefit and benefit of holders of foreign educational instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. The presentation of the report will be submitted by the chairman of the committee mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth! At its 18th urgent meeting on 14 December 2012, the Committee considered a proposal for a law on evaluation and recognition of education submitted by the Government to the Assembly for adoption. With regard to the basic text proposal, the legislative and legal service has made some comments, and on this basis, after the State Secretary has presented the basic objectives of the law, we have adopted three amendments and have in fact reformulated the text substantially. In doing so, we have changed both the title of the law, which is now called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Evaluation and Recognition of Education, as well as the articles, with the basic aim of not creating a legal void in any case and of not being able to harm those directly affected by this law. With these amendments, the text drafted was then adopted unanimously, as it is estimated that everyone means that the legal interest of those directly pursued by this law is protected, and by this argument we also propose to the National Assembly that this law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Truda Cinderella on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law amending the law by emergency procedure is to prevent the emergence of a legal void resulting from the late publication of the law and, consequently, the later application of the existing rules to determine the equivalence of titles and titles with Slovenian. Non-compliance would constitute a conflict of rules governing the evaluation of education and rules laying down the conditions for the management of regulated professions in the Republic of Slovenia. The transitional period so far is set out in the law until 17 December and the proposed amendment is extended to 1 June 2014. The amendment of the law thus prolongs the application of the system of equivalency abroad of the acquired title of professional or professional education and of the professional or scientific title. By extending the period, applicants shall be allowed to submit an application to determine the equivalence of titles or titles for certain regulated professions and allow the competent authorities which regulate them to allow an extended period of time for amending the sectoral rules. In the transitional period, sectoral legislation should be supplemented, if necessary, by providing, in addition to the conditions mentioned so far as nostration, a new way of determining the appropriateness of the educational condition for those who wish to demonstrate, on the basis of this education, the appropriateness of their education in the context of recognition of professional qualifications even after the transitional period. The Parliamentary Group of the National Charter will support amendments and additions to the Evaluation and Recognition of Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the minimum amendment to the Law on the Evaluation and Recognition of Education before us is only a result of the expiry of the transitional period for determining the equivalence of foreign titles or titles by the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, which expires on 17 December 2012. Individual ministries have not been able to adapt legislation on the regulation of regulated professions to the new regulation during that transitional period, as this area interferes with an extremely large number of regulations and the preparation of appropriate amendments requires a longer period of time. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed amendment extending the transitional period until 1 June 2014 is necessary. Otherwise, a legal void may arise in determining the appropriateness of an education condition on the basis of foreign education for regulated professions, for which the sectoral rules explicitly require the Slovenian title of professional or professional education or a scientific address. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, on the basis of this, we assess that the proposed amendment to the Law on Evaluation and Recognition of Education is necessary, and we will therefore unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all present, Secretary of State in particular! The basic purpose of the current Law on the Evaluation and Recognition of Education was to change the scope of the system of recognition and evaluation of education with a view to facilitating procedures, as well as to better regulating the procedures so far for the recognition of education in cases of regulated professions. By means of a transitional provision in this basic law, a uniform deadline has been set for the execution of certain procedures relating to the determination of equivalence in the foreign of the acquired title of professional or professional education and of the professional or scientific title to the relevant Slovenian title, which expired on 17 December, i.e. two days ago. Today, this law extends the transitional period until 1 June 2014, which means that investors will be allowed to submit applications to determine the equivalence of titles or titles for certain regulated professions until then, and allows the competent authorities to regulate individual professions and activities to have an extended period of time for obtaining specific rules. The draft law also met the general legal security standards on the home working body with the amendments, avoiding legal voids and addressing the risk of retroactivity. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the bill is appropriate, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Under the current legislation, the period of application of the system of equivalency abroad of the acquired titles to the Slovenian name through the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport expires on 17 December 2012. After that date, these processes are to be undertaken by the ministries governing a particular profession or activity, since only the profession can correctly assess the competence of an individual to carry out a regulated profession or activity as a whole. These ministries have requested the Ministries of Education, Science, Culture and Sport to extend the transitional period in order to adapt the sectoral legislation for the conduct of regular professions and regular activities in the Republic of Slovenia during this period also with regard to the required educational condition based on foreign education. Since the extension of the period until 1 June 2014 will prevent a legal void in which investors would be harmed, the Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is a simple action and the only objective to extend the transitional period of evaluation and recognition of the education acquired abroad, both to Slovenian and foreign citizens. As we have already heard, the ministries in question failed to prepare the necessary additions, so they sent a request to the Ministry in October to extend the deadline. From October to December, the Ministry failed to send this request to the National Assembly, so we are 14. 12. We have addressed this issue at an extraordinary meeting and we have encountered difficulties that, by the time the deadline expires, we have not been able to prepare this proposal for the law and that is why we had to prepare amendments to the committee. Yeah, it's true, we've drafted amendments on the board, along with the Legal and Legal Service, and today's the thing before us. That is why in Positive Slovenia, although the matter at the Ministry of Education and Sport has not been going as well as it should, in the light of the aid and good work for all those who receive education on foreign education programmes, the matter or this amendment to the Law on Evaluation and Recognition of Preservation will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Pučnik on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Evaluation and Recognition of Education, which is adopted in an urgent manner. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has taken into account proposals from individual ministries in order to extend the application of the system of equivalency in foreign titles or addresses of vocational or professional education in order to avoid the difficult remedial consequences arising from the legal void in determining the appropriateness of an education condition on the basis of foreign education in the rules laying down the conditions for the exercise of regular professions and activities. So far, the transitional period is set out in the law until 17. 12. 2012, with the proposed amendment, it is extended to 1. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This transitional period is provided for cases of regulated professions for which the regulations of the competent ministries governing professions and activities in the Republic of Slovenia explicitly require the Slovenian registered name of professional and professional education or professional or scientific address. The extension of the period therefore empowers investors to submit an application to determine the equivalence of titles or titles and allows the competent authorities to extend the period for amending the sectoral rules. Non-compliance would constitute a conflict of rules governing the evaluation of education and would constitute an obstacle to labour mobility and access to certain regulated professions. As a result of all of this, we will also support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a bill amending the Law on Evaluation and Recognition of Education, but there are some things that need to be said about this law. At the end of 2011, the National Assembly unanimously adopted a new law on evaluation and recognition of education. The law meant a transition from the concept of recognition and equivalency of programmes to the concept of acceptance abroad of acquired education. The former government was aware of the roots of the changes, in particular for regulated professions, so a 12-month deadline for the harmonisation of the laws and regulations of individual ministries was foreseen. The explanation of this article at the time stated: "The transitional period of 12 months this year is foreseen because the regulation of regulated professions interferes with a wide range of Slovenian legislation and it is necessary to allow a longer period for legislation to be adapted to the new regulation." I read this again because of the debate on the Committee, because the Government has adopted, regulated the law and also provided for a period within which everything necessary should be adopted for a period of 12 months. While the proposal to extend the time limit is understandable in the light of the situation, in the event of non-acceptance or non-acceptance, all those who have received an education abroad to carry out regular occupations would want to do their work with us. In view of the non-response of the executive branch, which has not aligned the law with other laws or regulations, the determination of the appropriateness of the education obtained would result in a legal void or, due to the undetermined suitability, a certain candidate could not be employed. Let me mention what was actually achieved by the adoption of the law in 2011 and what was stated in the introductory explanations when they assessed the impact on the economy: "The bill is included among the measures to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in February 2011. The proposed regulation can be an incentive in terms of deregulation of professions, where the Republic of Slovenia belongs to the summit itself by the number of regulated professions and activities." When the social impact assessment was mentioned, it was written: "The proposed concept facilitates the entry into the Slovenian labour market for holders of foreign documents." The conditions for employment are, of course, still laid down by the employer and, in cases of regulated professions, by the ministries and associations that lay down the conditions for the performance of individual professions. An attempt to transfer responsibility to the previous government, which fell before the unanimous adoption of this law, was passed. 11. In 2011, the government dropped 20. 9. 2011, it's tasteless. We do not agree that this is how things are handled, but the law is for the benefit of the people, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made tomorrow, 20 December, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Žig Turk, Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! In front of you is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, which regulates the following, in fact, three things. Firstly, the procedures for re-accreditation since some higher education institutions have not submitted applications in due time for the extension of these accreditations. The draft law amends the unclear provisions concerning the initiation of a re-accreditation procedure or the external evaluation of a higher education institution or study programme and further defines its validity. Article 6 regulates what happens if the higher education institution does not submit a timely application for extension of accreditation, when the higher education institution is deleted from the register of higher education institutions, the founder may initiate the first accreditation procedure. The provision is of a systemic nature and prevents a higher education institution from continuing to carry out higher education activities in the Republic of Slovenia only on the basis of the continued publication of the first accreditation. Another major change is that the amendment complements the regulation of transnational education. In doing so, we have taken into account the comments of the European Commission's official reminder and are removing the alleged obstacles to the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services in the field of higher education. This legislation takes into account the Lisbon Convention, the implementation of TNIs as foreign, education is open provided that the institution of the study programme and the transnational programme in the country of origin are recognised as part of their higher education system, the instrument of completion of transnational education in the Republic of Slovenia as part of a foreign higher education system, is considered as a foreign charter and is subject to a procedure governing the evaluation or recognition of education in the Republic of Slovenia. Third change. A new law establishes a direct pedagogical obligation during the organised study process carried out as a public service, namely, five to seven hours a week for a professor, a regular and an extraordinary professor. Such a legal solution gives the chairpersons greater autonomy not only in determining forms, but also in determining the extent of the direct pedagogical obligation, which means more flexibility and autonomy. The members of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth will recall that we have proposed some amendments to this law to make some improvements. Even these five to seven hours are, in our opinion, an improvement that is more precise than the first solution that we wanted, where we wrote for six hours as a rule. There was some fear among higher education teachers, which could mean these "rule six" – as a rule, six can also be ten or twenty. Now we've been making things better. You will also remember that we have withdrawn the most controversial provision in this law, that is, how and how we would appoint members of the Nakvis world. Even with the move of this National Assembly – I must say by consensus of this National Assembly – to devote an additional €16 million to higher education and science, I think that we have all taken a step against the higher education and scientific spheres together, so it is difficult to understand that some of the protests in this regard are still going on. I understand that there are some frustrations in the sphere because it is not as usual, every year more money, every year more employees, but that some understanding is needed for this part of the public sector to share the fate of the public sector. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, the proposed legal solutions are necessary and necessary if we are to maintain confidence in the diplomas and other public documents and to maintain and continuously improve the quality of our higher education institutions. We believe that the proposed amendments deal substantively with the procedures for the re-recruitment of higher education institutions and also that the case is systematically regulated [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The institution shall delay its application for re-accreditation. I suggest that you adopt this law and that you also make a third reading at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent working body will be presented by the chairman of the committee mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u22	Have a nice hello again. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth considered the Higher Education Act at its 6th regular session on 3 December. He also took note of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service as the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which gave a negative opinion on the original text, and took note of the position of the Government, which pointed out in particular the necessity of the adoption of law, among other things because of the European Union's demands to open up higher education in Slovenia, following some of the measures already taken by the European Union. This is said to lead to further action in claims for damages or penalties. The law had undergone significant changes at the meeting of the Committee, in particular the deletion of certain provisions which had previously been the subject of widespread controversy in the public, both with regard to the composition of the Nakvis Council and the substantially amended other provisions which were also the subject of controversy as regards the requirement of the number of hours for higher education teachers, because of the word 'rules' which, in the opinion of some, could mean anything. The Committee adopted a much more precise text limiting the possibility of flexible determination to five to seven hours, without any additional possibility of amendment, since this is simply a legal provision. Such an amended bill was subsequently confirmed by the Committee at the second stage of its consideration and we propose to the National Assembly that, due to the urgency of the European Union's demands after the opening of our higher education space, it should also adopt it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since the 7th meeting held a general debate on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 18 December. So I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Few laws in the public pay as much attention as those in higher education. It's not a coincidence. The area of higher education is extremely important and also in the report on human development, pardon, on development 2010, the position of Umara is very clear that there is a positive correlation between the share of tertiaryly educated and economic development. From the same report, where there is talk about challenges, we can understand some directions on what needs to be done to improve the situation in higher education. Recently, if we measure in years not far back, a resolution was adopted on the National Higher Education Programme, where the objectives and strategy are clearly defined. With regard to higher education, there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court which speaks of the need to provide stable legal bases for financing higher education. On all of this, the way in which the law was invested in the legislative process was discussed both in the public presentation of opinions and in the general reading, the higher education sphere responded, and we also responded in the opposition. I will not repeat what has happened in this regard, but the satisfaction that has been shown by the update of the report is, of course, to see also in the context of how much effort has been made and how long it has taken, that the arguments have been adopted, in particular, the arguments of those who are responsible for the development and quality of higher education, which are the bearers of this activity and who are also, at the same time, would say, the addressees of this activity – students. In this regard, I would point out that the Group of Social Democrats has always been very actively involved. What the Committee adopted and how it reacted was a second story, since the Committee was convinced until the last meeting that everything the Ministry proposed and regulated was in line with the benefits of quality higher education. But suddenly things have changed. As they have changed in favour and are improvements in fact such that at least for some we cannot say that they have not followed the requirements, but it is necessary to say that what the Government and the High Education Coalition have done is useful, a few things must also be more truthful. Even at the meeting of the Committee on Finance on 1 December 2012, neither the Government, nor the Finance Minister, nor the coalition of any understanding for the proposed amendments, which required higher funds or proposed funding for higher education, in one case 20 million, and then one amendment for 23 million, we are talking about two budgets and two more times 16 million for science. From that Saturday on December 1st until the budget meeting, in fact, a number of things have happened. In particular, I should like to point out that the Group of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment of 16 million for higher education, and all this has then really led to this, even with the support of one of the coalition parties, that intensive movements have also begun in terms of the coalition on this issue. On the day we discussed this, on December 6th, Minister Žiga Turk also prepared a press conference, from which he presented the report: "At the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, on December 6th, there was a press conference at which Minister Turk presented the government's decision," – the government's decision! - "who has listened to his efforts and the efforts of the higher education and scientific sphere to increase funding in the 2013 and 2014 budgets. Thus, 16 million euro is allocated to the budget, which will focus on upgrading and rejuvenation of higher education and research space, said the Minister." Then he also said something about the Higher Education Act and the School Food Act and the adopted amendment. I would like to reiterate that it is an amendment for 16 million, which falls under the budgetary heading of higher education, and this item is designed not to give signals as to how the Ministry intends to distribute funds. However, the explanation of the amendment stated that these funds were intended and that we are defending them – and this is what was agreed with the higher education sphere and what the higher education sphere supported – that these funds were intended for public universities. For this reason, the Social Democrats will not miss any opportunity or miss any opportunity not to draw attention to how the amendment was adopted and for what purpose it was adopted. Since it was already heard at the same budget session that the Government's implementation of the budget law still retains the possibility of redistributing funds, and the experience of this year and the developments in this sector, we are reminded of caution and of the need to insist on what the original purpose of the amendment was also ready. This amendment, which I am talking about, also has a direct connection with the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. This is Article 8 of the proposed novel, which redefines the learning weekly obligation or the pedagogical obligation of higher education teachers. We propose that this article, this amendment, be deleted. In fact, redefining the learning obligation for habilitated higher education teachers is also directly linked to the financial situation at Slovenian public universities. Because it is known that most of the funds are still earmarked for salaries, and teachers are part of the public servants system, and since it was also possible to hear in the budget debate before the vote how the salaries of university teachers have increased and there is no reason for the funds to be increased, let me say that the respected coalition should remember who was the author of the wage law, the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, and how the higher education sphere in any case is not fully agreed and open-ended to these decisions that it is part of the pay system of public servants. Why am I talking about this? We are not advocating that one be privileged and the other be disadvantaged, and that, as it is said, "share the fates of the public sector and of this country at all", but that it depends on the mass of wages guaranteed, also on what the structure of the employees in higher education will be. Here is also the key to assessing and defending the quality of higher education. It is not possible to overlook that this relationship also depends on quality, as it is said, as Umar also talks about in his report and says: "The student ratio : teaching staff is still not comparable and prevents the quality performance of the teaching process." Then the data is taken, Education at a Glance 2012, I have this publication, on page 451 you will read that more than twenty students will come to Slovenia – you know, statistics can also be divided by half, so here is 20.5 per academic teacher. It is true that this is information that requires full-time teachers, but the same information is also for the EU average and for the OECD average. With the OECD there are 15.5 students per teacher, with one-and-a-twenty European countries there are 15.8, this is data relating to 2010, only the publication is from 2012, and data are from 2010, so I will be precise enough. As we say, given the number of students, we are essential to the European average and also to the OECD average. Let me say, for example, Sweden from 12.5 students to teachers, Germany, say, 11,6, Finland 14.4. Among those countries that are below us, because it is necessary to say that in this statistics we are in the first place, so we have the worst structure that is comparable to us, say, Belgium with 19,3 or, say, Czech Republic with 20, but Czech Minister, because you know, the withdrawal is a reduction in funding for education It is a Czech story because there they are aware of the importance of resources for higher education and science. [[...]] So when you think about supporting our amendment, I want this amendment to reach the fate of the amendment for sixteen million and the one for school meals for young researchers, but at the last minute, the coalition will find it wise to support this amendment. That is why, once again, the roots of our amendment are in ensuring quality, facilitating quality. That the quality of higher education should not fall excessively, because all other data and arguments we have, I think, have already told us how the funds for higher education as a whole appear in a more favourable light or in a more favourable light than is true, because investments are also taken into account because they do not know how the funds are being shared. I think that the adoption of this amendment would at least prevent the number of students per employed teacher from continuing to deteriorate. Because if it's as it is written to move seven out of six, I don't think it's necessary to be an overly skilled looker into a bullet that reveals the future, that it will definitely go up to seven. How many teachers have already been fired, how many have retired quickly, and I think you also monitor in Slovenian media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you. In view of such a broad justification, only a few explanations need to be made on what, in fact, the current solution voted on by the Committee in the form of an amendment is actually the case. It is simply a matter of allowing flexibility, five to seven hours, from the prior rigid determination of six hours of pedagogical responsibilities for higher education teachers. The original wish of all was that this would be as large as possible, so that the possibility of autonomy would be as high as possible. What exactly is this story about? What is happening with regard to this solution is a kind of paradox. When the higher education sphere requires as much autonomy as possible, it must decide its own fate to the greatest extent possible. Once something is accepted that it also does – and there is no doubt a determination that allows flexibility in the number of hours of a higher education teacher – towards greater autonomy in the higher education sphere to decide its own destiny – then new responsibilities are feared by those concerned. They say we prefer to stick around because we know exactly what we're up against. Then it's not autonomy. I must say that I find this very difficult to understand, but I also find it very difficult to understand the objections. On the other hand, the Rectors, at least some of them, as well as many higher education teachers who attended individual debates, as well as in public controversy, said themselves that they wanted greater flexibility, that they needed it and that they wanted it to be as flexible as possible. So they want as much autonomy as possible when it comes to determining the number of hours of pedagogical obligation. Here is a very interesting calculation, which means so much less money and so on. It's just, what do those hours really mean? This does not mean that one has to do so much or not, and it all depends on it, but it is a reallocation, because the obligation of higher education teachers is of two parts. One is actually teaching hours, and the other is his scientific research work. Both components are mandatory, both essential and therefore only necessary to enable reallocation; depending on the requirements, perhaps on the wishes of teachers themselves, from the core of the teaching work to more scientific work or vice versa, from more scientific work to more pedagogical work. Both are certainly in the interest of the state, both in the interest of society and both are in the interest of higher education. But to allow some autonomy here is certainly in the interest of higher education. That is why this whole controversy, especially given its bombasticity, is very difficult to understand. Unless we equip it with some humor, it's the attitude of the high school union, and those who don't allow this solution to fail to know any fears that were originally drawn on the wall to draw a parallel with that old anecdotes, a humorous anecdotes about St. The Augustine who is supposed to pray in his youth, "Give me a pure heart, good God, but not now." This is how these discussions sound: we want more autonomy, we want to decide for ourselves how much teaching work and how many hours of scientific work we will distribute, but not now. Now let's just say it's concrete in the marriage. Let him know who can! But the fact is that this solution, which is now in the complementary bill after the committee meeting, is appropriate and in terms of the autonomy of higher education, and also in terms of the organisation of higher education, is certainly in the public interest because it allows for some flexibility. However, since the range is precisely established by law, no abuse or fear of anything that has been the subject of public controversy can occur at all. This makes the text better than this amendment proposed by the SD Group of Members and we will not support it in the SDS. In conclusion, given the author's very broad reasoning, he should say that, in view of all that was added to it, from that amendment in higher education, which we all in the SDS, we were pleased to support personally, because it was certainly in the public interest that the funds had increased there, and to everything else that was listed there, it was already a little similar to that witch kitchen: a little of that, a little of that, a little of that, a little of that, a little of that, and then a little of that, and then everything in higher education was just red. But I'm afraid it's in practice that everything is green too often – you know, green is the color of money. When it comes to autonomy, this often overlaps with the purely personal interests of those in different positions, and much of the opposition can be understood only by the fact that it concerns personal interests or purely domestically referred to as money. But when it comes to public interest, to the autonomy of higher education, it is our common interest. Because of this common interest, we will insist in the SDS on the text adopted at the second stage of the Committee's hearing and is now subject to adoption in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the area of higher education, even in the field of education, we have already gone far beyond humor. So, my respectable colleague, I don't think you need to talk about any of these things, humorous things or anything. However, there have been many debates about this law, and for several hours, I would say that at least we in the Positive Slovenia Group are aware that we have been elected by the people and that we are Members of the people here and that we represent their interests. When you speak and when you speak in the government, you speak in the light of public interest — look at the street! Students will also be here today and will express their interest. I am therefore convinced that we must work in the light of public interest and for people; for those whom we believe we can improve their conditions. We are talking about increasing autonomy, autonomy in higher education, universities to give autonomy to those who organize work, the dean, the rectors, while at the same time closing down their tentacles or reducing their resources and laying down what is and what is their obligation to be. Look, just in this, well-intentioned, from five to seven hours, because there's less resources, the rectors will have to prepare a recovery program. When the recovery programme is ready, I suppose the minister will first look at the obligations of the professors and where there will be no seven-hour obligation, he will say, no, but you are not acting in accordance with the good master, the recovery programme will return. But I didn't make that up. It's not the fear of politics, it's the fear of those who run the educational process. That's what this is about. Of course, we will support the amendment precisely because we do not want to make further complications within this sphere. Where the rectors do not give the maximum number, they may make the difference, but within the collective, there will be friction, why so much more to one and more to the other. Thus, certain criteria will have to be drawn up here; for the criteria, we know what they can be like: that they can reach into an area where bad will occurs. Where there's bad will, there's bad work, where there's bad work, there's worse results, and I don't think there's anyone here who wants bad results in public. What we are talking about today or what we have been talking about for a long time is just what kind of policy we want to lead in the field of education. Whether we want quality public education and complementary education — where public education cannot — with private education — we are not afraid of it. We are not afraid of this, but we speak complementaryly where it is not possible to speak publicly. Why am I saying that where it can't be public? Because it is publicly available to all and under the same conditions, and this is important for Slovenia, and so we have decided. Let's ask the people! Have people decided to make selection here, or have we decided to allow people to have a level playing field? This is important! I'm talking about kindergartens, elementary school, high school and high and high, high, university programs. When it was said that the European Commission had asked for something to be done and improved transnational education. Yeah, we were right behind it, and we said it had to be done. However, something is missing in this chapter — a criterion. That's what they warned us about in Nakvis. The criteria are unclear, the criteria are not met. That's exactly why we went to change what we supported, but we warned about the criteria. And that's not what politics has come up with, but it's what the profession is talking about! Look, you said you were willing to listen to arguments. What arguments? So many hours as we sat and talked, and so many different experts were at these meetings — you didn’t pay attention! Then all of a sudden something went wrong. Yes, of course it's gone! People who don't trust us anymore who don't live up to their expectations. If we don't live up to their expectations, then they're off the hook. They go off and say what they think. Then you may hear, feel, and believe that the devil took the joke. And that's what's happening to us. Then we all fall into the same basket. I'm not afraid of that. I'm not afraid of it, but I'm offended or sad because we're all being thrown into the same basket. We're politicians now. One year ago, I was a respected, working, creative director, but today I am an ugly politician who does not want to benefit this country and these citizens and citizens. That makes me sad. Look, my colleague Poturat detailed and correctly presented everything that was going on, warned about the anomalies, and also said that what the Constitutional Court had asked the Government to prepare, and that we did not take into account. Again, if you want to be a good Tonka or maybe Janeka, to take into account everything that is said by a foreigner, what we demand or demand from us, we do not take into account: the financing arrangements of higher education institutions! We have not yet prepared this or prepared it — to make amends. This will give me time to make a call, and I will conclude: this amendment will, of course, be supported in the light of the autonomy of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I notice that there is more than one wish after the debate, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act has brought a lot of excitement and uncertainty and dissatisfaction among the students as long as not. Of course, not only by this law, but before the government did so with the Public Finance Balance Act, then with the 2012 budget rebalancing and, of course, with the 2013 and 2014 budget proposals. Just look at the balance sheet and the regulation on public funding of higher education institutions. According to 2011 it decreased by almost €20 million or just over 9% in 2012. However, if we look at that initial draft budget for the next two years, the government would reduce the funds by 17% in 2011. Fortunately, we listened to these warnings in the National Assembly and raised these funds in the budgets for the next two years with the opposition amendment, which was fully supported by the National Assembly. I now hope that, with regard to the law on the implementation of budgets for the next two years, there will be no problems and that we will also be able to implement these amendments and that the university will be able to draw on these funds. The fact is that this government should also continue its orientations, which significantly increased funding for higher education, for research and development. For example, in 2009, 47% increased in terms of 2008. I am talking about R & D funds, as well as public funding for tertiary education, increased by 22% during the previous government period. When we now have data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which published the first provisional data on Slovenia's development and research activities in 2011, our national economy invested 894 million euros or 2.47% of GDP in 2011, according to this data. Of course, this increased development intensity in Slovenia did not come from itself. It has been enabled and encouraged by a number of measures of our economic policy – I speak for the time of the previous government – from tax incentives for investment in research and development credits of the Slovenian Export and Development Company and the European Investment Bank to grants, which were mainly linked to the drawing-up of various European Union funds. I also appeal to this government to continue the direction of the previous one, which has significantly increased the resources for tertiary education, for research and development. With regard to the amendment to the amendment to the Law on Higher Education proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to say that it follows the reasoned comments of the Slovenian High School Union. And if we have been able to accept some amendments on the Committee on Culture and Education and that the Government has listened, it would be right for the Government to listen to the opposition amendment, as it did in the 2013 and 2014 budget. I would therefore call on my colleagues and colleagues to accept the amendment to Article 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to say that I completely disagree with what has just been said that this change in the higher education law has not brought about the unrest. Yes, there was a lot of unrest, because this unrest was well organised by both the unions and the opposition, and many ideological impurities were involved in this test. Although I am surprised that, in such an important case, MEPs or serious political parties are going to the knife against a school minister who has acted perfectly rationally and on duty, because we know that the law was created because it was necessary to react to some of the European Union's arms. In fact, after many debates, we have now agreed, we have talked very normally on the committees themselves, and also at the budget meeting. It can no longer be argued that there is no understanding within the scope of the options given in the country. In this particular amendment, you say on the basis of the union that this moving, direct pedagogical obligation can be dangerous to the financial stability of universities, but it seems a little irrational to me, because it can indeed be increased by an hour. Only in this case will this result in greater financial stability at the expense of the funds given, as some teaching burden will increase in the case of someone, while some funds may then be earmarked for some other non-disclosure if this is rationalised. Of course, in the given situation, this is about rationalisation. That's what you should say. To put it a little bit like that, it seems that some colleges are trying to help ministries, and they're just going to set up lectures on the streets, and as a result, material costs are going to go down. So I don't know. Although I think what the Faculty of Philosophy is up to today and I've seen on Twitter protests by some students taking their education and some professors force them into the streets. I don't know if it's purely rational behavior of professors and certain leaders right now. Students have this right, absolutely, if they decide for themselves, even professors, if they do, but within the framework of their learning obligation, I think it is more of a strike, because I doubt that such education will have major educational effects. I have to say that some rationalisations in some colleges I think should work too, because in years – I have said this several times, when students with a stop vehicles, are now organized differently, for the last three years – I have been driving at least six students every week on a stick and I can very clearly understand and define the relationship of individual colleges, professors to learning obligations. Unfortunately, it has to be said that philosophical and FDV are here, some departments in philosophical, not classical, Slavic, comparative, and there were very serious relationships between professors, and some of the new directions to the FDV were simply reported by students that there were no lectures. The professor doesn't show! Or at the philosophical level, the students had a teacher's sign when it was supposed to be a test for her going to America for six months. Here, however, more order is needed if some of these professors, who are most critical to the present authorities, do not know the most, substitute for lectures. I can assure you. They got paid, they didn't let the students know that they were going to drop out, because then they officially took lectures, and this is, unfortunately, the most happening at the FDV and at the Faculty of Philosophy, where in the left governments there were always the most professors ministers. Of course, it is difficult to harmonise each other's obligations, and I am aware of that. Thus, I find this opposition in the given circumstances to all flexibility and greater autonomy within universities, how they will allocate the obligations of teaching workers, irrationally or afront to any rationalisation in spite of such a financial situation of the country. Continue to repeat that this money that has been invested in education, science, culture, is to be reimbursed three times, four times, ten times. What a day ago I spoke to former Culture Minister Majda Shirca, our colleague, who said that they knew that money for science and culture would come back repeatedly. I said, "Then why didn't you raise the funds by 100% in your previous term? At the time, you had cheap money because you took loans, you owed the country..." Why she did not invest in this, but now she would have drawn the results and the Minister would not have been spittled, because then he would have reduced by 10% as he should have. It would still be 85% more than 5 years ago. Why did you not increase these funds so dramatically in the previous term? I don't understand! If you had this behavior to make this money come back five times, you would at least test these effects directly! I myself am a terrible advocate of investing in development and science because I was also a registered researcher. But all this money doesn't get fermented. Unfortunately, we also have such a situation in Slovenian science within some institutions that a lot of this money will disappear – without an article in a recognised magazine for the project. I don't think there's anything wrong with this 8th article, so I'm not going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President Jakob President. First of all, I must say that the New Slovenia Group itself and the New Slovenia Group will not support this amendment. We don't really see sense. If we are looking at Article 8 of the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, this is now read: "In the first indent of the first indent of paragraph '6 hours' shall be replaced by '5 to 7 hours'." Of course, between 5 and 7, there are also 6, which is an existing state. Of course, we can also think that there is now a problem that university teachers will have, as the proponents have calculated, up to 17% of the lower salary, but I am simply not afraid of it. I believe, however, that we also need to listen to the comments of the High School Union of the Republic of Slovenia. In this respect, it is certainly a legitimate concern of that union, although I sometimes feel that this union is also going into the technology of higher education, which is probably an extremely professional thing. When I was employed by the largest hairdresser in Europe as a trainee, I was even a member of the union's executive board in the working community of the common services, but we were dealing with lunch, winter, transportation to work and so on. These are, in my opinion, typical union themes and typical union content for which it is right for the union to fight. But it's kind of hard for me to think that the university union, for example, would also decide on various higher education programmes, norms and so on. But, okay. Speaking of rectors, talking about students. This is the exact time we are experiencing, and it is certainly also appropriate to clearly articulate that we expect rectors to always stand up for students, not only when students may need to be invited to the street. Maybe this statement I made won't please anyone, but I read it in a lot of newspapers. I am also happy and it is good that today we share this positive opinion with each other and with the Slovenian public. I am pleased that we have given 16 million more to higher education at the time of our consideration of the budget. But then I said, and today I repeat: this sixteen million is for students, not the whole amount. Why not? Because about 70% of the budget of a university is paid by some being high, some being too low — including some professors, assistants and so on. There is also talk of fictitious contracts, there is also talk of tied funds, that, for example, the University of Ljubljana should have about fifty million tied funds. To this day no one has objected to me, nor has anyone told me that this may be a good thing. I'd like someone to explain this to me, that maybe by the principles of a good master, it's okay. Of these 16 million, we gave only about 4.8 million students. It's true that university professors' salaries are also for students, because of course they are teachers, but so much so that we know what kind of relationships we're talking about. I would also like to get Members to the table, not so much, there you can look at it, but to get a financial report on the implementation of the budget of a university, say the University of Ljubljana. According to my information, I don't know if they're correct, I'm willing to correct myself, according to my information, the budget of the University of Ljubljana is – do you know how much? About 300 million. Although the University of Ljubljana is reportedly receiving around 10% of this budget on the market. Look, I don't think that's enough. Not enough, however, if it claims that they also take into account fees in the funds obtained on the market. This is probably not a market in the right sense of the word, at least I understand it slightly differently as someone who was in the economy. I'll finish my college program again. Just yesterday I met with a representative of an extremely successful company, an extremely successful company that has been operating in Slovenia for about 20 years, not just in Slovenia, but abroad. I will also suggest to Minister Gigi Turk that he meet with representatives of this company. They're dealing with supercomputers; you might say it's out of touch, it's science fiction. It's not! This company has acquired a supercomputer, of course even with the help of the state, of course this value is about a million, a million and a half euros. They have extraordinary solutions, and they've taken me for a higher education area. For example, at the University of Ljubljana we do not have a postgraduate or if you want a doctoral study that would provide knowledge for the use of supercomputers. So many of the programmes that we are concerned about that we have programmes that give graduates who are unfortunately not all employed, but at the second stage this is the case that I have just said, and it is probably more that simply higher education does not educate the staff that our economy needs and that our society, which is probably never as fast as today, is changing at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you. Well, Mr Grimes, your stories that you like to tell us are about duality; but this is a duplicity that you have more to do with than I do, so save them for yourself. The green color is the green color of nature for me and some painter explained to me that it is the color with the most shades and for the painter, the painting far most difficult. If you see green only as a color of money, that's your personal problem. I have nothing to do with it. Now for autonomy. It is very interesting how you and your colleagues understand autonomy, as these discussions are now witnessing. Do you remember how it was explained in a public presentation of opinions on what to do with such autonomy: give money to someone, buy shoes, and actually give it to them so that they can buy only slippers? And the point is that you demand an understanding of autonomy so that you can tell those who are promised autonomy what you can do with that autonomy. About the function of trade unions – some do not know, I do not know, respected Mr Horvat, if you know that the members of the Slovenian Higher Education Union are higher education teachers with doctorates of science and other employees as well as that the whole of Europe knows that employees have the right to co-management and that this is not an idea of winters and holidays as you would like to attribute to trade unions their role. When we hear and talk about autonomy, you tell us what they can do in colleges, what teachers and students can do to target individual colleges here. The constant evidence of philosophical and FDV, very interesting, which is how you get on your nerves. I'll say it's very interesting! You're talking about autonomy and then you're already discussing which study programmes should be financed and which ones should not, so please don't talk about autonomy at the moment you don't give the basic options for autonomy. It's reduced autonomy. This is not autonomy at all, because you have also determined with the Budget Implementation Act what will happen to management officials of public institutions if they do not have adequate financial statements. And you know, the kind of autonomy that you would understand within decision makers, just as it was in this year's financial year, when what was meant for higher education was slowly moving from the public to the private sphere, and that's another story. Here you have Mr Director of the Directorate, who can give you accurate accounts of the financial picture of the University of Ljubljana, because it is in the bodies of this university. When you talk about rational behavior and that non-admission of the Higher Education Act is the fruit of ideological views, then I would like to say that if there is an ideologicality, then the concept of social development is. Of course, this is growing from a variety of perspectives on society and our concept of social development is to provide public, accessible education to all from the first to the highest level. And if that's ideological and you can't talk about it, then I don't know what else we can talk about in Parliament because you've already dealt with yourself. But what appears to be in this concept and why the high school sphere is disturbed is the absence of a concept, or rather your concept, which you impose without a wider social consensus. This is what is hidden in all these debates, and I believe that it is small for the honourable chairman of the committee to debate, because then you must also discuss coalition and magnetograms to understand what you really think. Magnetograms of the budget debate will show that until the last time you were against the amendment that was finally adopted. To the last one! And this with arguments that have nothing to do with rationality. This amendment – I thank you, Mr Horvat, that you have read what the original text says to be a direct teaching obligation of 5-7 hours – to support this to be deleted and left for 6 hours. If this is not a clear provision, then I really don't understand. More possibilities of speculation and movement are those between 5 and 7. Now, if rationalisation is to reduce the number of employees and if you don't believe that this will mean 17% reduction in wages, then you know more than those who work in higher education institutions. And I would ask for a little more correctness in these personal experiences, however, Mr Horvath, let us acknowledge the experience of some past world, not that of today. If, on the one hand, we advocate mobility or mobility and insist that our higher education teachers are also certified outside the borders of Slovenia and are actively involved in Europe and the world, I do not know why this must be a major problem if there is no teacher for study completion or participation abroad for half a year. If you've been so personal, I'll be very personal. When my most respected professor, Toporisich, went to America, I knew that I could decide between whether I was doing my exam by studying what he didn't teach or risking going to do my exam in the fall, and maybe I didn't do it. I chose my first version. But that's always the way it is in high school, and everyone could explain their personal experiences to you now. But we're not here to explain personal experiences, but to regulate the system. The law on higher education is a bad marriage because it does not solve the underlying problem. Financial stability in this law is not resolved, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u37	Replica, Mr. Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the contrary, I'm glad to hear about higher education from a respected colleague of mags. Majdo Potrata, last but not least, is extremely experienced in this area, and I respect that. I also know who's in the college union and who's connected to this union. Then let's say everything, the politicians are also connected to this; so, semi-professional politicians. But you have to admit, colleague Potrata, I wasn't talking about the Faculty of Philosophy or the FDV. But I can mention another college, but not by name, but one that gets over 50% of the money in the market within the University of Ljubljana. Not 10, along with tuitions such as the average for the University of Ljubljana — and we will have to give public praise on such occasions. I also understand that I have to take the autonomy of the university as a parliamentarian so that we simply have to provide money, for example, for the University of Ljubljana 300 or probably 500 million, and then nothing will affect, ask, and just be quiet. Look, I can't agree to such autonomy, unfortunately, but I agree to the competition of higher education institutions, universities, universities and so on, because competition, even in higher education, must be our national interest. This must be the policy interest to enable citizens to make the most of their choice, and however they will then be called these faculties, even if, finally, someone else will be the founder, not the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. What I am listening to in the National Assembly today really shows where we are at the moment of running the country by this current government, and where we are going. And we're actually going into destructive capitalism. What you are saying is that there is no need for any regulation to regulate the entire market is pure and grave neoliberalism, which consciously destroys everything that is public in the country and wants to privatize everything that is privatized to it. The law on higher education is a concrete example of your thinking. I really wonder when in Slovenia we decided to destroy everything that is public. When did we decide that? If the coalition contract for you is what goes beyond the Constitution, which goes beyond the law – forgive me, this is not a legal order that would apply in the Republic of Slovenia! Look, if we are talking about higher education, we were able to implement an amendment at the 2013 budget, which provides 16 million euros for higher education. According to the evaluation and the proposal of university rectors, twenty million would be needed. Just so that we came together somewhere in the negotiations, because first there was an amendment proposal of fifteen million, we said, let's go to at least sixteen. We agreed to this, at least sixteen, rather than actually destroying public higher education. Twenty million is the money we would need to implement programmes that are already under way without major interference with this education system. However, if we look at this article today and this amendment to Article 8 itself, the article itself, if it is legal, will actually reduce wages by 17%, of course it is the salaries of university professors. If this does not happen, they will have to forgive people if they start to forgive, of course quality will fall in public universities and you will have an open road: see how bad universities we have, so they need to be completely eliminated and let public universities be privatized. And I'm sorry! When did we decide in Slovenia if public universities want to exist that they have to introduce tuition? When did we decide and agree that the school’s solutions are for all those who want to learn and come from families that do not have high incomes? Look, this neoliberalism and this one, I'd say the open market, as you say, leads to the fact that you allow for a good existence of elites, and everything else you drive practically through the reduction of social rights, through the reduction of wages to the level of slavery. We're going this way! Public education is the specific goal of this government, that it should be gradually reduced, destroyed and then privatized, and who can have access to school? Come on, come on, come on, come Is that the goal of Slovenia? I am pleased that, in the debate on higher education, we have been able to achieve at least that this important regulator, the National Agency for the Quality of the Implementation of Higher Education Programmes, has remained in the organisational form that has been established so far. This is an important measure that we have achieved, and we have softened this objective that I feel from your discussions, that everything needs to be privatised and, in fact, wet only to the elites so that they can be educated. This regulator is very important that this does not happen, at least not in the short term, as you imagined if this initial proposal of this Higher Education Act were adopted. This was an important achievement in the process of adopting the Higher Education Act. The budget amendment will ease this grave capitalist interest again, but secretly you want to achieve this goal in a way that reduces the salaries of university professors or, as a result, bring universities into this direction so that they will have to forgive professors and thereby reduce programmes and, of course, open the way to those graves, aggressive privatisations and the establishment of education in Slovenia, which will be directed only to elites. So I hope that at this point we will reach agreement in the National Assembly for a simple reason, because nowhere in the constitution or in the other act, we have not written down that we can bring down everything that is public in Slovenia. We didn't write it down anywhere. If you have this in your coalition agreement, once again, I stress that this is not a legal act that would be above the constitution, it is not an act that would bind you in the National Assembly, so that you can overrun just everything that the profession warns you about, not just the profession that comes from educational institutions, even the legal profession as such, where you intervene and how you intervene in this system. It would be time for you to look at yourself and try to think more rationally, though. The fact that you are consciously creating an economic crisis in Slovenia with all measures is the doctrine of shock. People – frightened and then politics uses this fear to actually seize everything that can be gained in the country. I would like to point out that in higher education we have slightly eased the fact that we have maintained a quality control agency in higher education and also provided some resources, but it is only time that we can really talk soberly about what we want in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. In some debates, one wonders whether he would replicate and give them attention and weight or not, because they are so far away, I will say reality. What is neoliberal about this law? I would like to know, and I will say, this mantra that you've been repeating all the time to destroy public education: what have we done with public education differently than we have done with private education, where we have treated public education differently than we have considered private education? While it has to be said that many of what you say is private education is also public education, it is also in the public interest to also perform public service, only the founder is not a state, but is the founder, say, of the local community, the University of Nova Gorica is an example of this: it works well, but it is probably the target of fire and sulphur that you vomit against so-called private schools. I would like to ask that we try as much as possible to hold some basic facts in these debates: there is no destruction of public education. I have repeatedly said that Slovenian education stands and falls in public education simply because there is so much of it. However, private education is welcome to refresh the offer, including from Waldorf and other schools comes up with a wide range of interesting ideas, a good pedagogical approach, which then takes place in public education. Indeed, we will not do what some hawks among you would like to do in order to exploit the crisis financially in order to destroy everything that is private in this area. And to that, it seems to me that we should avoid making this a mistake. Slovenia has one of the smallest if not the smallest share of private education in Europe. I doubt that all other European countries are so foolish. As I said, this is a welcome refreshment, and the quality of education stands and falls behind public education and we are working for this public education. And once again: in this law that we are talking about today, there is no difference between public and private and there is no neoliberalism that you like to talk about so much, and in fact, I don't know if anyone knows exactly what that could be.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u44	I will not talk much, but the last international external evaluation of the knowledge of fourth-graders and eighth-graders gives confirmation of the quality of Slovenian public education. Recent opinion polls say that education is the area that still enjoys one of the highest levels of trust in the public. These two data are fundamental to me not seeing the need to change the relationship between public and private. It's our tradition. Others have different traditions. When we talk about funding, we need to rely on the adopted documents and the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme precisely states that private programmes should be financed only when they are significantly better in quality than public and cover areas not covered by public programmes. However, the funding review shows that, with some calls, we have changed the legal decisions and, for example, the funding of a doctoral study, which was previously left to public universities only after the resolution, is now moving to independent higher education institutions. Just one example, and I could tell you, so you wouldn't have to put that nebulosis in the air, how some of us are just talking, but we don't have any real evidence to say that. We have them, as is evidence that the previous government, Mr Jerovšek, has increased the investment in research and development by 22%, and if this bothers you, then public funding for tertiary education would have increased by 22%. [[...]] I can also give you two instruments: a resolution that I have already quoted and a research and innovation strategy for Slovenia 2011-2020. But some people don't consider it binding documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My colleague, you must have misinterpreted my guidance on purpose. It is commendable that you have increased something, the resources for research and development, but given how much debt it has grown, how much debt the state has paid, I don't know how many billions of dollars have disappeared in banks, but that's a terrible little. You should be 100 percent if you are so sure that this will return immediately, increase when you had scissors and canvas, but not that everything went elsewhere, into irreversible, but to Cyprus I don't know where the money went. I don't know if the Cypriots will be returning to research and development. I doubt they'll come back! That's what happened in your mandate. You didn't go up there. I don't know how much. Of course, there are other times. Unfortunately, there are other times when we cut in all areas and you saw last night the European Union's long-term forecast. Sorry about Slovenia. And in such circumstances, the two of you there, Mr Webr, who had previously performed with "par excellence" populism and demagogia – this ministry will be destroyed; all that is public in education, higher education. And I don't know how many times I've been to a meeting when the minister made sure nothing changes, no tuition! And you keep stressing school fees like they're being introduced, but I don't know how many times it's been guaranteed. Admit it, it's a firefight at the current demonstrations. Admit it! You're smokin' the population to say they're wearing banners, the Minister's introducing tuition, and I don't know what. That's smokin'! I have to tell you that there's been a lot of trouble. In this way, it is very unhygienic — in my opinion. But there are some realities you need to be aware of. Also in the case of direct pedagogical obligations. I am sure that the worst of the pedagogical trade circuits did not properly finish these six hours — most of them. Those who wandered around most of the time were missing from classes without their students being canceled and paid. Some names from the Pedagogical Council or from higher education, which are the world's most widely shared politicians, could be said because I have documentation of how conscientious professors are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek, three minutes of replica, three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u48	Okay, I'm gonna finish it. I can see it's really over. So, the hallo effect is triggered by those, mostly by those that are least consistent and least principled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I really don't give a shit when we say that most of the university professors haven't worked in six hours. Please don't. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You're gonna be able to replicate or you're gonna be able to replicate. [[...]] Please don't come with such information! And this is a disturbance, and this is also an intolerance, this is a lack of confidence in university studies and the work of these professors, which I greatly appreciate. Not only do we appreciate them, but they are also appreciated by foreign experts in Positive Slovenia. This will probably be an argument you will accept, what we or our profession are telling you is not being respected. My colleague Horvat, more than 30% of the funds on the market are acquired by the University of Ljubljana, I have accurate data, and between 15% and 20% of the other universities. Everything I say is above the European average! Just so we don't talk if we're comparing. I don't want to compare our country with two million people with other countries, I don't want to use statistics because statistics can be manipulated, so I can get what I want, and then I can cheat with it. See, the main thing is that we want to continue our education, both higher education and everything, as stated in our national programme. See, the National Higher Education Programme states that by 2020 the funding for higher education based on GDP will be substantially increased. Are we following that? No! No! In this budget we have had, the funds have been significantly reduced. With both amendments, the first amendment, which increased the area of education programmes, the university and higher education programmes in 2013, by sixteen million and our amendment, which increased by sixteen million in research and science, we have only filled the gap that would have arisen differently if the Ministry had taken the money away from them. Therefore, I thank all those who have recognized this urgent need, and you have voted in favour of this amendment. However, I do not thank you as a politician, but thank you on behalf of all these students and also all those who are also implementing educational programmes. Crisis, we said it was an opportunity. Of course, every crisis is an opportunity to think carefully and prepare programmes and strategies for further work, for further goals, for where our country should go. But we have already set strategies and targets in the field of education. We want to improve the quality of lifelong education, where education includes both kindergartens and universities and, of course, the Andrago Centre. I have also asked Mr Minister how we plan to handle matters in the field of education for all where more than 250,000 people are involved. Today, however, we will connect the Andragog Center to a new emerging institution. I am therefore convinced that we have a good strategy that does not need to be changed when we talk about the absence of the concept of this government. No! No! The government is changing and there is no need to change this concept. The government has a concept, but this concept is not in the interest of the public interest. That's what we're trying to tell you. People, experts, students, parents, students face this kind of intervention. We are still convinced that investing in education, investing in knowledge – knowledge is what will bring us out of the crisis. Of course not right away, but a little later. This is a long-term investment. However, if we are already following the example of countries that are more successful than we are, even in crisis, these are Scandinavian countries, Denmark, Germany, and have significantly increased their contribution to education. Austria kept it at the same level, Slovakia increased funding for education. My colleague Majda also told us what achievements we have achieved or have achieved in the primary school examination. And we know what they're doing, and we can hear that every day, our scientists, researchers on the world market. Now, whether we take advantage of all this knowledge, or if our economy takes advantage of all this potential, forgive me, but this is not just the task or role of these educational institutions! But we must sit down, agree, sit down and talk, including with the Ministry of the Economy, including the trade and economic chambers, what we think in the field of tertiary education to correct and change. I am convinced that there is a need to make some changes in higher education, that the personnel coming out will be immediately employed and that they will have so much knowledge that entrepreneurs and the economy will be able to draw on the knowledge they need. However, these are changes that we cannot just make quickly, overnight, and not in any way reduce the resources and importance of educational institutions. That's not good! Of course, we have now spoken in general about education, we are talking about this amendment to Article 8, which is also an intervention in the field of autonomy and in the field of obligation, and thus not trusting the individual responsible who are taking it to university and higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kovtičnik, the replica. Here you go. I'm sorry, he's wrong again! Joseph Jerovšek! There are too many Josephs in today’s session as discussers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I must strongly protest the feigning, abuse and instigation of my colleague Kavtičnik. He abused my words. Although, Mr President, you might as well warn him. I said that most of those who make statements in public do halo effects, and most of them, I'm sure, those unionists who are these teachers, they don't spend six hours, they get maybe paid, they probably get paid, they get paid. But you said that most of the professors didn't complete six hours, and that's malicious machination. I have to tell you, most of those who, for example, have driven some students into the streets today probably didn't say that in this country there are banks or bankers who have robbed us. What a banner against it! I have to say that Dr. Vehovar, who isn't in this college, said that what happens in banks, this robbery, is a crime. But today you will see, they will not try to define themselves to what is the biggest crime in this country in the financial field. If that's how you fake it and try to deceive it, it's not good. You know, I was talking about who was working or who was working at the time when you were an LDS member, and it was then that three students told me that there was a woman who had lectures there, on Lukšič's red belt, and she was an official of your government, not a minister, but an official. [[...]] Once in December, I talked to her and asked her how she was teaching, and that and that — since she had never been to a lecture before, and they had the subject inscribed! [[...]] That's how it works! And then people like that start and grow. I'm protesting against it! We also need to clean up within the universities and also the rectors, let the dean do something inside, some of the measures that are needed today. Something has to be rationalized! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I propose that Mr Jožef Jerovšek inform all Members and Members of the National Assembly with accurate information on what he has just said. This is not his first performance, but these onsets are permanent, in which he regularly shames professors and professors and imputes to them the poor performance of his duties. In order for the image to be better, I suggest that, perhaps so, we take care of the comparison in the SDS Group of the Members of the SDS for more information on how many meetings Mr Ivan Janša attended in the previous term. Then we would see how someone does some work if we were speaking so casually that some do not work. However, I strongly protest and you, Mr Vice-President, did not do this, which is usually correct, that Mr Jožef Jerovšek used as a public institution, for a college name associated with a private person, with a person who is not present and attributed to him, as if this institution were his private property. We may have someone in this room who owns some public higher education institutions, but Dr. Igor Lukšič certainly isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Well, your procedural proposal will probably be difficult to implement, but because of this I give it is the fact that this short amendment, too, is a short article, at this amendment you are discussing all of the problems in higher education, so it is difficult to limit the debate exactly to what the amendment gives. [[...]] Procedurally, Joseph Cavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Because people, citizens, and citizens are watching us, I just want to make it clear or say that it's true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u57	What's your procedural proposal, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u58	Let's just say that politics really won't interfere with universities and it won't be inside cleaning up some things, as it was said, "We have to clean up inside universities." So that people don't accidentally understand that we're going to clean things up at universities. I'm sorry, this message was given, and that's how I understood it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavticnik. This was a debate, not a procedural proposal. But Mr. Joseph Horvath has the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will use this institution of replica to make – Mr Vice President, if you calm your colleagues down a bit [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u61	Mr Jožef Horvat has the word and very few seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased and grateful to Mr Jožet Kavticnik that he has also served with information on the proportion of funds received by the Ljubljana University in the market. This is significantly different from my data, so please, Mr Minister, serve Members with data on the implementation of the financial plan of the Slovenian universities for 2012, by sources and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u63	Mr. Janko Weber's got a word behind him. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you. As to how the Social Democrats acted when we led the government, I must say that we have invested 1.6 billion euros in research and development. The budgets we have adopted in the National Assembly reduce these funds by 20% and more and are still falling. No developed country in times of economic crisis reduces funding for education, for research, for development. No one! Except of course Slovenia, which obviously wants to become very, I would say, backward, as far as development is concerned, and this is wrong. We note that, unfortunately, this is not demagogies, but numbers that are indisputable, and unfortunately, what we are alerting the Social Democrats to are also being applied. And when the minister asks me what neoliberalism is. Look, Mr. Minister, it is typical of neoliberalism that you are reducing the public sector and you are doing this in a way that practically no calculations have been made and you are literally experimenting with people, how many social rights we can retain. Here before was a representative of the Ministry of Finance, to say whether there are calculations for the ZUJF when it was accepted, whether there are calculations for other areas, including banking, which they are supposed to solve. In doing so it is typical, Mr Minister, that all regulators who then supervise capital formation be removed. In your law, too, you wanted to be completely subordinated to the Government, the current policy, the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. We've managed to prevent that. At the state level, the Capital Investment Management Agency is a regulator that prevents policy from starting with capital, government capital, whatever you want. Today is the fact that you want to abolish the agency and the fact that you are negotiating to privatize everything that can be privatized in Slovenia. It's neoliberalism. If you want to, you can also look at it on the website, which was the show on October 7, 2012, The Doctrine of Shock, the Expansion of Destroying Capitalism, Sunday, 7. Ten. 2012, broadcast in Slovenia 2. But there's more because today I don't have time to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u65	The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u66	Your Honor! I had no intention of answering, but I would like to comment on the difference between the Waldorf School and our public schools. Public education is our property, which must be controlled, and also guarded. What is the difference between the Waldorf School and our public institutions? In relation to a man where money and capital are not in the first place, but rather a man in the first place; also a professor and a scholar. But there's something different about our public schools. The bill on the table is inconclusive, flawed and uncoordinated, so it is normal to discuss it. So competition – yes, but I want this competition to be in the respect of professors who, as such, will do their best. The autonomy itself, on the one hand, and on the other hand the reduction of funds — what do we do? In fact, we do nothing, so I want to compete; but in respecting and giving professional supplies and professions in the best way, not in the way we do it now. So we have good education, good professors, good students and students. I think you can get the most out of the worst school and from the best very little. So it's a human thing; and we're back there. Let us also give what is good in those other schools where the human factor is respected to give to our public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u67	Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. It is very interesting to listen to this breadth of debates, given that there is only an amendment before us that relates only to an article that deals only with leaving a little more autonomy, a little more freedom in the higher education sphere, and that within the poor two hours, it is said to be between five and seven hours, to distribute its work according to its judgement. This does not mean that hours will not be done, as many misinterpret, but rather that hours will be allocated between scientific work, between what is the obligation of higher education teachers and their educational obligation. That's all this is about and allowing a little more freedom and autonomy to the scientific sphere. What is interesting, however, is the logic that is completely upside down when it comes to debates in virtually a large part of the opposition now that you understand the logic of autonomy in the scientific or higher education sphere in this sense: give us money, and then you should not be interested in how we use it. You know, we're all paying money as taxpayers, and it's made by those entrepreneurs who make profits. Unfortunately, the 14 billion who are in the public sphere are hardly making this profit and it is necessary to be aware of it. And because of these, because of all the people who are taxpayers, it is necessary to take into account what the public interest is. The public interest is in the first place to get as many highly educated people as possible, whose education will be comparable to that of the European Union and who will be able to do so, if you want that term, to be marketed in the whole of the European Union and throughout the world. There is no need to have any reservations, every reservation is completely wrong whether it is a public or a private institution. It is clear that the basic framework of education is open to us and will remain for a long time. All the debates on this are ridiculous and irrelevant. What is also very interesting is that today there is a lot of talk about forgiveness and tuition. Nothing in this law provides for forgiveness or tuition. It's pure demagogy. On the contrary! Allowing a little more freedom to higher education institutions, if it is to be used responsibly, means that they can organise their work more rationally and thus maintain or even open a job. So it's the opposite of what everyone else says. Why is there so much fear; before allowing a little more flexibility, it is very interesting. In particular, because those who are directly touched by this when they were at our meetings, in our debates, have argued among them that this right would even be boundless to have full freedom, but it is true that some have taken a stand later, but not now. This can also be said with some humor, which I did at the beginning, and I personally marvel at it. Why fear of responsibility if it is only the responsibility of the one who can preserve things and the competition of the one who increases the quality in the long run? In doing so, some of the debates that have been held today — I do not mind a little bit of the polytological cord — cannot be without an answer. The syntagms that we are now hearing that the current state of affairs is responsible for destructive capitalism — do not mess with me, according to your own words! Who caused this condition that we are now witnessing to him? All of Europe has had a new development cycle over the past few years, with the exception of some poor countries and among them, unfortunately, Slovenia, too, because it had a government in power that did nothing or at least not enough. As a result, she took credit for credit until she found herself in a dead end because the money became too expensive or even inaccessible. Now not only those with authority are facing this problem, but also all entrepreneurs, because simply in Slovenia the banking system is no longer working, it is all blocked because it is no longer possible to get money because the previous government has lost it – a coalition, as it were. So if you're talking about something that's destructive, you're using expressions that are politically proven. It is said that the economy is the only suitable syntagma of "destructive socialism". As a result of this, you know, the systems have collapsed, which is why Yugoslavia has also collapsed after all, because this was the primary reason why it broke up, and that for our economy it is a concretely devastating post-socialism to the credit we have witnessed in the last three years, indeed what has led to problems in society as a whole or in the area of higher education, which we are talking about today. What you've spent in the last three years is now exhibiting itself as an account and therefore, in all areas, there is less money than you would like. Believe me, I would sincerely like to see a substantial, substantial number of resources available for higher education, just asking where to take it. Credit is no longer possible, you know that. That means where to take it when you have such an idea, and you've already wasted everything. And that is why: if you use the term 'destructive' then use it for your own work, destroying post-socialism on credit, because it was really destructive and will be paid by Slovenian entrepreneurs and all citizens and citizens for many years, but we can now work, we can achieve extraordinary success, as was, say, unanimously adopted proposal to amend pension legislation. It is said that the fundamental reforms that this country needs, because they have been well prepared, well-coordinated and have never been successful before, have been blocked by the unions in the previous term, your unions, which is a very interesting paradox. That is why today, when it comes to what you once were sowing, it is a rather strange thing. What's interesting, in its own way, is that the term "doctrinal shock" is used. You know, I think all of Slovenia has seen in practice the doctrine of shock and incompetence if I paraphrase you – again a little sense of humor – a doctrine of shock and incompetence when the chief of the coalition in the previous term went ahead of the cameras and said that "tomorrow we finally start working". After two years! Yes, good morning! That is the doctrine of shock and incompetence. That is, when you use excessive expressions, think a little bit about not coming back like a boomerang. I propose that we put this debate back on the real ground; where all the countries are in fact. By the way, the ten most successful economies in this world are all capitalist, but now also to keep the social note because they are successful and do not run into ideology long and hard, as we regret it to do, but are being pursued. Objectives that are developmental, which are also developmental for science and higher education if you want. But the basis for success must be based on successful entrepreneurship. If that is not the case, then you have nowhere to take it from, if you do not create it, no system of the country can function properly anymore and there is a need for saving. In a given case, when it comes to higher education, your proposal was adopted by consensus to further release the funds – and I am happy! This is something that can also be one step further. But we need to be aware that we have objective limitations. For this reason, insisting that nothing should change, that even in that part of things should be rationalized, when they are in some way self-sustaining, even those who are directly touched by it, is strange that I do not use any other expression. That is why I say again that surely the current solution in the law, which allows a little more rationality, a little more freedom, a little more autonomy of higher education, is better than your amendment – and that is all.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u69	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik then Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. How do they spend money at universities? The University of Ljubljana of just over a thousand of the best universities in the world is among the top three - about percentages, I apologize, between 3% of the world's best and the University of Maribor is among the top 5% of the world's best. If this is not good enough evidence that universities are good, of course no one can ever be so good that they could not be even better, but we will not achieve better work and better success with less input and less money. Everyone knows that! If we invest less, we can't have any more. Yeah, I'm sure there's a need to boost economic growth. In Positive Slovenia, colleague Stepišnik talks about this almost night and day. This is already his identifying mark – raising the economy. However, raising the economy can be achieved through knowledge and investment in knowledge. And that's not going to work, not overnight. That is why I am sure that we will be able to be more successful in the economy if all these potentials and all the knowledge available in Slovenia are exploited. Of course, there is also an urgent need to make some changes – I have already talked about – in the field of tertiary education, in the higher education field. About this amendment, about these minor changes and about what might happen after the proposal between 5 and 7 hours, I have already talked and told you where the rabbit is: exactly in this! Since universities receive and receive fewer funds, they will have to prepare a rehabilitation program. In the recovery programme, they will have to write the maximum number of hours of load. If that doesn't happen, it will be just like – like a colleague who was waving a little bit yesterday, I started exercising myself, because yesterday we were sitting for over 16 hours, this morning at half past seven I had to leave home and be on the board at eight o'clock, so I have to speed up the blood circulation a little bit. I'm sorry. T Therefore, it is important to be careful that in this recovery programme the rectors will have to increase to the maximum number of hours of burden. This is also possible in agreement with the rectors, in agreement with the professors, but it takes time, not a directive. It takes time. Education — including in the economy, but especially in education, because it is a constant contact with people — is a very important relationship; a true relationship creates trust and trust creates a greater contribution for those working in this process. A bigger stake, more quality and more will be done if we trust each other and if we are among them, a better relationship will become between us, respectable, and if you believe that we also know something and that when we give warning and recommend that we think well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u71	Minister Turk has spoken to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I thought I would be next in line for these reported debaters, but I would still like to make some substantive comments on these 5-7 hours. This is actually the only thing we are really discussing here today, is the only amendment that is still open. I would like to point out that this increases the autonomy of supervisors in higher education, so that the educational burden is regulated as they see fit. Those of you who are concerned that this would have some terrible consequences on the quality of teaching, scientific and so on working at universities should note that these 5, 6 or 7 hours are valid only for 30 weeks a year when they teach at universities. For 22 weeks when he does not surrender, nothing changes completely, so this is really a small change and some small flexibility that they will take advantage of will not take advantage of; it is absolutely a matter and the opinion of the leaders, probably also in agreement with the employees, the unions and so on. There were a lot of concerns here about the relationship between students and teachers – Mrs. Potrata talked about this – at Slovenian universities. This argument is often used to increase the funding of universities when this ratio needs to be improved. This forgets that a large part of these students, whose relationship with teachers should be improved, are fictitiously enrolled. In Slovenia we are enrolled in universities or in third-degree studies of 70% of the generation, we have a lot more smart people than Switzerland, which enrolls in universities 30% of the generation. According to the world comparative scales, we are a country that has the second or third largest number of people enrolled in higher education organisations in this age group. At the same time, we are among the five worst when it comes to what percentage of young people eventually graduate. So, the huge gap between how many people are enrolled and how many people are graduating, and if something is to be devoted to higher education, it is precisely that we are investing in those who will eventually reach education and graduate. With regard to the debate, why, as we have listened to the spheres of the composition of the Nakvis Council, let me say that we have talked a lot, even though we have heard that the public debate on this law should last only two days; we have started to speak in August, now it is the end of the year. There have been a lot of debates and I must say that the decisive argument has been told by students and students we want to listen to and they are those who are really interested in having a quality and quality study. But not to mystify this high school quality agency council too much. This is where you mentioned Finland, how everything is wonderfully arranged there. In Finland, an agency similar to the Slovenian Nakvis, established by a government decree, with a government decision, without a specific law. The Council of the Finnish Agency shall have 12 members, which, if I quote this decree, shall be appointed by the Minister after consulting the shareholders. This Finnish agency is, of course, a member of the Enka and has all those characteristics of autonomy that we want in Slovenia. Here's one big release of the fog of those who would like to keep the monopoly on this organization. Regarding the doctrine of shock, Mr Weber – he is not here – I do not recall that this book Naomi Klein, which, of course, also made the film, would mention Slovenia anywhere and in any way. This is in another country, about another society with other habits, at another stage of development. Mr Horvath's question was how much does the University of Ljubljana achieve from the market. Here things can be interpreted differently. The market can also be that if you sign up for a call for public funds to the ARRS, to the CRP and so on to apply for public funds, European, and that gives us that big number. The data I have is that the University of Ljubljana deserves 12%, I will say, indeed from the economy, indeed on the market. On the market, that they are not taxpayers in one way or another. Then there was a vehement discussion that no other country had reduced any funding for higher education, education at all and so on. You know, these stats are pretty much something. I have opened here one picture that I could show you, but it would be small: Ireland, Great Britain, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Sweden, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Greece, all these countries have by summer 2011 reduced funding for higher education than Slovenia in 2012. Everywhere in Europe, unfortunately, they are also trying to save on this account. Finally, with regard to this 16 million amendment, which we have heard a great deal of credit. I wouldn't take credit for this attachment. We have worked for a long time at the Ministry to convince on the various sides that the budget needs to be a little more balanced here. We did it in the end. If this had not been done through the budget amendment, the Government would have done so by reallocation within the budget. I knew that two days before this budget was in Parliament. However, I am glad that this was done explicitly and in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u73	The word is Mr. Only Bevk, behind him mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue the development policy of the former government. As I mentioned, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published data that the Slovenian National Economy invested €894 million in 2011, including with significant State incentives. Slovenia thus ranked with 2.5% of GDP of the product immediately for the developing intensive countries in the world. And if we look at it, in 2011, Slovenia is undoubtedly significantly above the average of the European Union, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, that those countries mentioned by Mr. Minister I do not even mention [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u75	Mag. Majda Potrat – you don't have time anymore, and Mr. Jožef Kavtičnik still has it Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u76	Mr. Secretary, I really like how you're trying to raise funds for education. My colleague Jerovšek has repeatedly mentioned that there is almost a fight in the government, how you want to obtain as much funding for education as possible. Unfortunately, here in this temple of democracy, here, when we adopt certain legislation, this is not how we feel. Look, when you said it was an hour up or down and it was the autonomy of an individual rector. They have a certain number of hours available at universities. Those rector clocks are deploying. When he places a burden on teachers or professors for a greater number of hours, a certain number of hours for others will be reduced. What professors at universities do you think will be superfluous? Junior! I didn't make that up again. The rectors are warning me about it. And that's the problem. There will be no – Mr Minister, because you will be able to answer me – there will not be quality criteria, but criteria of habilitation, longevity in the work process and so on. That's what the rectors are afraid of, and that's what they're alerting them to, and that's why I've asked you this question about your intention. But as for statistics, I said myself that I don't want to use it, because statistics are a good tool in the hands of the one who operates with it and can show it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u77	Anyone else want a word? Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Given this topic, that openness in article 8 of the amended law is very well accepted – at least I think it is on the one hand. Perhaps a contribution along with how to reduce costs in higher and higher schools or universities. Higher education, universities and universities without strong research and development activities should virtually not exist. This is said to be a particularly well-developed activity. A well-developed development and research activity in these schools requires equipment and programmes. However, this equipment and programs require a great deal of money. And one more thing, this equipment is very fast out of date. Today, since the world is very advanced, no equipment has lasted more than three to five years. In companies in Slovenia we have an extremely well-developed development and research activity in development and research groups that are registered and have a group of ten registered researchers. These researchers are also doctors of science. It would be good to find a new form of cooperation between these companies and universities so that universities or students can also carry out research and development activities in these companies. Perhaps with some agreement we should find a way to train these researchers, who are also doctors, to gain a certain part of the pedagogical-andragogical knowledge in order to become very good mentors. On the other hand, it would probably cost a lot less money to buy new equipment in higher, higher schools and universities. Many companies in Slovenia have sufficient equipment, which is now at the world technological summit, and companies also have to renew it every three to five years. It is said not to be the cost of the university, but it is, say, the cost of the company. I would therefore suggest that, in fact, a more active approach be taken to cooperation between universities, universities and universities, to find a form, a network through which this cooperation would be stronger, and that money in higher and higher schools or universities would remain for other purposes, not for such expensive research and development equipment as it is purchased, because such development and research equipment, if sufficient, can be used for industrial purposes after a certain period of three to five years. In addition, it is likely that an enormous amount of European funds could be used through the tenders for this purpose. Since we want to raise the competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy, it is certainly the first step to invest more in research and development. It is a quick investment in education and training where we get and new, novel products that increase the competitive capacity of companies or even create new needs on the market if we manage to make some new product, service or, if you want, product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u79	Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timetable tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COST LAW. The draft law has been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to Mr Aleš Zivkovic, State Secretary, to explain in detail or further the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duty lays down the deadlines for the application of excise duty refunds. These have so far been defined by a sub-legislative act and, in accordance with the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, are determined by law. The maintenance of the register of taxpayers in the Law on excise duties is deleted as this is regulated by the Council Regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties, which is directly binding. With the proposed amendment to the law, additional products that could be used for propulsion or heating are included in the system of excise control, with a view to preventing fraud and avoiding the payment of duties. In this case, it is a matter of transferring the European Commission implementing decision on energy control into national legislation. The deadline for implementation is 1 January 2013. This is also why we should propose the adoption of a law by this time limit. For excise goods sold under international traffic, the amendment clearly defines that the exemption applies to each flight or sea voyage between Slovenia and a third country or third territory, with Slovenia either as a departure or as the destination of such flight or sea voyage. The applicable excise duty law gives the Government the power to monitor individual excise duty amounts for certain excise products and this amendment gives the Government the power to increase and reduce excise duty on cigarettes and to increase and reduce refunds on energy consumed for a certain purpose, i.e. for agri-agricultural machinery, for industrial and commercial purposes and for a mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels. It is not possible for commercial transport to increase recovery due to the conditions of the Energy Directive. This sets the minimum excise duty for gas oil, the so-called diesel, at EUR 330 per thousand litres. This power to increase and reduce excise duties and refunds provides the government with a flexible implementation of excise policy and the possibility of actively managing economic policy in the light of the market situation. In the case of gas oil for heating, the amount of excise duty which has already been applied in practice shall be determined on the basis of the power of the Government. This means that the government's ability to intervene and act for 50% of the change in excise duty has already been exhausted. The determination of this same amount, in practice of the amount already in force, in the provision of the law, will provide the government with room for manoeuvre or enable the implementation of the policy pursued, both in terms of budgetary revenues and also in terms of environmental protection. In Slovenia, a pack of cigarettes traditionally contains 20 pieces of cigarettes, and now it is also stipulated by law that the package must contain at least 20 cigarettes. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you. It is the mother's working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek will present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! At its 40th urgent meeting on 7 December, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on Articles 6, 12, 13 and 14 of the draft law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the Minister of Finance presented the main changes and solutions to the draft law, which is less difficult to comply with European Union law, and the changes needed to make domestic excise duty policies more flexible. One of the changes is that the excise duty on gas oil for heating is set at EUR 105 per thousand litres. Flexibility gives the government the opportunity to increase or reduce excise duty up to 50% in terms of market and budget conditions. The Government in the law proposes that the same flexibility is applied to excise duties on tobacco products, to the determination of the percentage or amount of refund in energy products used for the economic purposes laid down by law and to biofuels. The minimum amount of cigarettes in each package shall also be determined. The obligation to place a tobacco brand under the cellophane packaging is maintained only in cigarette cases, not in the case of chopped tobacco and tobacco for smoking. In the debate, members of opposition parliamentary groups supported the law, while stressing that the Government should be cautious in determining energy excise duties. Doubts were also expressed regarding the overflexibility that is possible in determining excise duties. Members of coalition groups asked the Government whether it was on a cellophane or under a cellophane and wanted to know whether 50% flexibility in determining changes in excise duties was still within the legal framework of the European Union. They also asked about the novelty in determining the number of cigarettes in each package and whether the Government was monitoring the excise policies of neighbouring countries. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that a certain number of cigarettes are also in the turn to avoid being overvalued and thus more accessible to children. The Minister added that the law follows three objectives, namely to try to reduce consumption of tobacco products, increase fiscal revenues and reduce inflation. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, also adopted the amendment to Article 10. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups by 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u84	Good day to you all. Your Honor! Excise is one of the most important sources of funding for the state budget and also a resource that is most predictable of all. Products for which excise duty is collected usually have lower price elasticity, so the turnover of sales when excise duties change is not so great, of course if excise duties are set wisely. While we must be aware that we are living in an open economy where a competitive moment is still very important. Both consumers and investment capital quickly turn across national borders to find a more favourable and cost-effective environment. Simply, the trucker pours a thousand litres of diesel fuel into a truck outside our country and speeds across our beautiful homeland and leaves us with nothing but discharges. The interest of the State is, of course, to optimise the collection of excise duties, i.e. to collect excise duties as much as possible, which is not necessarily related to very high excise duties. Fuels, including tobacco, are still products by which the country acquires huge amounts of financial resources and also by foreign nationals. With the overpriced final prices caused by excise duties, there are also smaller inflows of this money and it may well be that, in spite of the increase in excise duties, the final financial outflow of the country is even lower than it was before the increase. This would, for example, happen if diesel fuel were cheaper in most neighbouring countries than in our country. Economic policy is therefore still important in excise matters. Why am I saying all this? Because this law gives the Government of the Republic of Slovenia more room for manoeuvre in determining the level of excise duties, both in the field of energy and tobacco and alcohol. We hope that it will pay special attention to this area; if I simply say that there will still be an important buyer of both fuel and alcohol in Slovenia, as this means an important and practically indispensable influx into the state treasury. In addition, excise duties are important for economic competitiveness, as energy is primarily an important shareholder in the entry cost of Slovenian companies. Although the legal novelty also identifies the number of cigarettes in packages, with a view to preventing the imposition of a low price for the final product and introduces into national law an implementing decision of the European Commission on energy control. Some new sanctions have also been laid down. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have also been extremely careful about the provision that allows for changes in the reimbursement of excise duties. For this reason, we also support the amendment, which significantly restricts the Government in determining the amount of excise duty reimbursements for fuel engines in economic and agri-economic activities. Indeed, in this area, any change is very important because of the great impact on the international competitiveness of the economy. This is a sensitive area where a thorough reflection and careful examination of the consequences will be needed before any change. Although the bill has the support of members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u85	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your word and a warm welcome to all present! The proposed amendment to the Law on excise duties transposes certain European rules into national law and eliminates the uncertainties raised by practice. For example, the bill provides for a smaller number of cigarettes in a package that can be sold on the Slovenian market. Given that a pack of cigarettes traditionally contains 20 cigarettes in Slovenia, the applicant considers that the most appropriate number of cigarettes to be contained in one pack should be set to at least 20 cigarettes. Given that the law in force empowers the Government to reduce or increase up to 50% excise duty on energy and electricity, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and up to 50% increase excise duty on cigarettes, cigarillos, finely chopped tobacco and other tobacco for smoking, the amendment also introduces the power of the government to amend the amount of excise duty for cigarettes. At the same time, all tobacco products are subject to the Government's mandate to reduce excise duty to up to 50% and not only to increase excise duty. The amendment of the coalition to the amended amendment also gives the government the power to reduce to 20% or up to 40% the percentage of reimbursement of the excise duty paid or exemption from excise duty. The excise duties fixed by this Act on energy consumed for industrial and commercial purposes, for agricultural and forestry machinery and for biofuels added and up to 20 % increase the amount of excise duty recovered on gas oil consumed as fuel for commercial transport. According to the DeSUS Group's assessment, it is a sensitive material that includes additional financial burdens on certain sectors, such as construction activities, all agricultural activities, etc. Over-stepping the reduction of refunds or the exemption of excise duty could lead to even more serious business problems in those sectors, the collapse of many companies, the reduction of agricultural activity and, on an international scale, the deterioration of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. At the same time, there is a fear that an excessive measure in this area would increase the illegal use of fuels with a lower excise duty burden. This would further reduce the inflows to the budget and require a tighter inspection, which would result in additional costs for the country. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment to Article 10 as well as the whole bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-worker! By legal definition, excise duty is a tax on certain goods, including alcohol, tobacco, petrol and fuel oil. It shall be paid for excise goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and excise goods imported into the Republic of Slovenia. To put it simply, excise duty is a selective tax on consumption. They apply to certain product groups, so we say that they are also an objective tax because they depend solely on the existence of objective circumstances, which is the amount of consumption. We also pursue the primary fiscal targets with excise duties, which are an important budgetary resource at the time of the budget deficit. We are also pursuing some other objectives. Excise and excise policies shall ensure the impact on consumption itself, in those products which cause negative external effects. For example, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco products have negative effects on human health and the clean environment. In this part, excise duties have positive effects. The excise duty often regulates the market conditions for certain excise products, in particular for energy consumers, namely propulsion fuels and electricity. The prescribed level of excise duty rates is thus either encouraged or inhibited by consumption in these areas. The excise policy also has a significant impact on the promotion of economic development and the creation of new jobs, through the provision of excise exemptions and also the reimbursement of paid excise duties. Under the current legislation, refunds of excise duty may be applied to energy products used for industrial and commercial purposes, for agricultural and forestry mechanisms, for added biofuels and for public transport fuels for commercial purposes. The refund of excise duty on energy products shall be 70 % of the excise duty paid. Reimbursement of excise duty is an important incentive for farmers and, in particular, for economic operators in the field of construction. In times of tight economic conditions, the reimbursement of excise duties for these entities was a reliable liquidity source. The current amendment of legislation aligns the legal order in the field of excise duties with the European acquis or the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the time limits for the exercise of the rights of taxpayers to refund the excise duty paid. The uncertainties that have been shown in the implementation of the rules in practice are also addressed. However, the most important novelty introduced by the current amendment of the law is the increase in the government's power to regulate excise rates. The Government shall be empowered to reduce or increase up to 50% the excise duty on energy and electricity, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and other tobacco for smoking. In New Slovenia we welcome the changes introduced by the new excise law, as it ensures consistency of legislation. Given that the economic environment in the European area is changing rapidly and steadily, changes need to be addressed quickly and excise rates for individual excise goods need to be adjusted to change. The power vested in the Government by law will require the adjustment of excise rates to be made substantially faster. We also support the powers of the government to intervene in the area of excise recovery. Despite the fact that the government has this power to reduce excise duty refunds, we are confident that such a power will be exercised extremely restrictively and only if such a measure is urgently needed. We are particularly alert to this government. Members of the New Slovenia Group will therefore support the amendment of the excise law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We adopt the law by means of a reduced procedure, which means that it is not a major change. The fundamental principles of the law do not change, what is now to be done, is less important and less difficult. Therefore, it is unlikely that details of a more or less technical nature will be particularly useful to discuss from this point of view. To recall, however, the crisis, the declining economic power of the country and the logically linked very low ability to generate public finances or tax revenues. The possibilities for increasing tax burdens are therefore extremely limited. This is how the budget debate on excise duties has already been forecast. The excise duties have always played an important role in taxation; they take an hypnotic role as soon as they enter into force. In particular, their advantage is that the costs of their collection are relatively low and because of the lack of elasticity of demand, they create a small excess tax burden. However, it is not possible to use them simply because of the hypnotic needs – I am thinking mainly of spending on electricity and energy – especially because the products taxed with excise duties are still under a special transport regime or even under a state monopoly. In other words, we know what we are discussing and is directly related to excise duties and also to amendments that come to mind, without the necessary numbers. In Slovenia, 1 million 386 thousand motor vehicles and trailers are registered at the end of 2011, of which more than 84 thousand trucks and 92 thousand tractors. Complementaryly, I associate this with the energy industry. Energy production, measured in tonnes of equivalent oil, increased by 20% in 10 years, supply of energy at the same time by 10%. We use 6 thousand 200 kilowatt hours of electricity per capita and the share of electricity production from renewable sources of total electricity production, interestingly, falling is 24%. And if I drop the alcohol this time, three million cigarettes have been turned off by this day. More and more will be lit by the end of the day. So let's smoke together or smoke 6 million 300,000 cigarettes. The excise duty, along with the amendments, is good to show and less to citizens and businesses. I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! The SDS Group will support the proposed law. We are aware that excise duties are an important source of budget revenue, and we are assessing ourselves that excise duties are not only a source of budgeting but also have a developmental function. The amendment of this law empowers the government to regulate excise policies in the field of energy, alcohol, cigarettes and sawn tobacco. We are confident that the government will be able to manage this excise duty with the current market monitoring policy so that Slovenia remains competitive and, above all, will be able to absorb these excise revenue for the budget mainly in the field of foreign customers. We call on the government to monitor developments in the current markets, particularly in the field of energy and energy, because it is important to be aware that the Slovenian economy remains competitive. This law also introduces certain provisions of the European Community that will make the market more orderly. Because of everything that's been said, we're going to support the marriage. Of course, we will also support the proposed amendment proposed by the coalition to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. And Mr Matevž Frangež, Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u94	Respected and respected! If this law had actually followed the objectives set out in the bill and had more or less technical alignment with the European Regulation and, on the other hand, the Supreme Court’s judgment, then the Social Democrats would have no major problems with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties. We believe, however, that the key objective of this law is, in fact, to compensate for the loss of anticipated revenues brought by ideas of selective value added tax withdrawals, which are to our pleasure – and we are also confident, thanks to us – have been removed from the agenda. With the proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, the government has foreseen higher revenues of €70 million, and apparently now the government's intention is to move on to excise policy to at least partially compensate for the loss of budget revenues. This, unfortunately, is not mentioned among the objectives of this law, although this objective is legitimate. The law also shows that the change in law itself will have no financial implications. In view of the clearly expressed intention of raising excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes and doubling excise duties on electricity and increasing excise duty on fuels, it is clear that the intention is, in fact, to increase government revenue through excise policy. Our government has also sought to pursue the same objective by selective regulation of excise duties and, of course, to reduce harmful behaviour for the society and health of individuals. However, today we must find that the law's extension has very problematic effects that will undoubtedly reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Here we are thinking mainly of doubling electricity excise duties and increasing excise duties for energy consumers. This rise will also unselectively affect the most socially sensitive in the economy. Social Democrats are proposing, in terms of alternative measures, that the Government reconsider what we will do with the corporate income tax, whose change this year has led to a fall of €190 million in tax revenues. There is sufficient room for manoeuvre in this reserve to meet the public financial needs in this area without significantly weakening the competitive position of the Slovenian economy. These are also the warnings of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We also oppose the solutions to empower the Government to change excise duties, as provided by the new fifth indent of Article 66. With the new fifth indent, the Government shall be authorised to increase or reduce, in accordance with its economic policy, the percentage or amount of refund and/or exemption from excise duty on energy consumed for industrial and commercial purposes used for agricultural and forestry machinery, for added biofuels to fossil fuels and to increase the amount recovered from excise duty on gas oil used as commercial fuel. All these exceptions reduce what is one of the advantages of excise policy, and this is that it is simple to implement and therefore simple to cover such revenue. Extensive powers of the Government in setting temperatures and exceptions may further complicate the whole system, thereby reducing the proceeds that we believe are the basic purpose of the proposed law. In a given situation, Slovenia needs to think soberly and responsibly about how it will rehabilitate its public finances, in a way that will strengthen economic development and open opportunities for people to new jobs. This is possible, these are not measures that would stand in the way, but may be measures that go in the direction of the smart development of Slovenia. We suggest we think about it. We will oppose the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a debate on the article and on the amendment tabled. We have one amendment tabled and I remind you that there has been a change and that you are paying attention to it. So I am putting to the debate first, or Article 10, and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 10. Anybody want to talk about it? Is there any other desire for discussion? [[No, no, ……]] Then, Mr. Weber, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, I would like to receive an answer to a question which is also related to the provision of Article 6 of the Law or to Article 54b of this Article for reimbursement of excise duty for agricultural and forestry machinery. In particular, this Article, in the first paragraph, provides that energy consumers who are demonstrated to be used to drive agricultural and forestry machinery, including tractors, shall be entitled to reimbursement of excise duty of 70 % of the flat-rate amount of excise duty prescribed for gas oil for the purpose of propulsion during the period for which excise duty is required. This amendment speaks of a reduction of up to 20% – in terms of reduction only – up to 20% of the refund of paid excise duty on agricultural and forestry machinery can be reduced. I'm just checking to see if I understand. Article 6 provides for 70 % of the refund of excise duty on agricultural and forestry mechanisms for energy consumed and, of course, Article 10 states that the government wants to legislate to reduce this percentage by 20%. Well, it won't be 70% anymore, but it could be 50%. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Does anyone else want to discuss this article or do they want the word Government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! In answer to the question of Commissioner Vebra. Yeah. It is said that 70 % of the basic reduction, i.e. the base, is a 20% reduction – 16 % of the points, i.e. 54 % as a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. And Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you. If I recall, when we had already tabled an amendment with Minister Pogačnik or agreed to reduce excise duties on agricultural fuels, we had very clearly identified the very difficult income situation in agriculture and the increasingly difficult conditions in which farms are located, it was virtually unanimous both in the opposition and in the coalition that this additional provision was adopted to allow for a reduction of 70 % of the excise duty on spent fuel. Well, as you move on to 54% at a time when all reports on the situation of agriculture show a very difficult income position for farmers, I believe that such a free path is a way for the government to decide for itself, excessive jurisdiction and unacceptable interference in fact in the Law on excise duties, although before that the government has somehow enacted or the coalition has enacted to give it free hands when it introduces a percentage of excise duty for individual products. I do not think it is good that this excise duty is being reduced in the course of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly binds it with a large majority, and I do not know if at that time anyone has objected to it that this amount is 70% or that the amount is calculated on the basis of a 70% reduction, but the Government will be able to change that percentage to 54 at any time, as we have heard in the explanatory memorandum. I think this is a very bad message for all those who deal with agriculture, that this is a very bad message mainly for rural development and the preservation of rural settlements. We have heard many times when we are talking, and we will also have today, I think the next point is the law allowing for interference in agricultural land without any broad procedures and consensus. There has always been a reason, since, after all, it is not worth loving anyone else or farming, because everything is so expensive, it is all a cost and young people run away from farms. If we did not understand and listen to all these arguments that there are difficulties in maintaining farms, that there are problems in maintaining rural settlements when we talk about interventions into agricultural land, then I think it is unacceptable that you are actually trying to legislate today, that the Government is taking power and will decide, through the National Assembly, that it is even making the situation of farmers worse and thereby weakening the position of people in rural areas. Whatever we look at, there is always a need for some positive discrimination if we are to preserve rural settlement, because there are no highways everywhere, there are not many institutions where young people, as well as everyone else, could be employed. In my opinion, this is a real change in this period, regardless of the budgetary needs or the provision of funds in the budget, this is a completely inadequate measure, especially because it will affect areas in this economic crisis, but also at all times, very difficult to maintain some development and to maintain population in both border areas and high-rise farms, as well as all other areas related to agricultural land processing. I hope, however, that this amendment – probably so strong in this – would still be valid, I hope to announce a third treatment, but to exclude at least this part of agriculture from this possibility that the Government itself decides to take 16% of the reduction in excise duty to agriculture, thereby mitigating the consequences of this law, which will certainly have a very negative impact on Slovenia's even population. We must also be aware that Slovenia is specific in that one of the few European countries that have a very dispersed population across the entire area is around 51.52% of the population live in rural areas, so that this measure has a very large impact on a wide range of people. I think it would really be worth considering whether we would not table an amendment in the third reading in order to exclude the agricultural and forestry mechanisms from this power that the Government wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Zweglich would like to discuss it further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. As is known, I am also a Member of the National Assembly, a farmer; of course, before that I was only a farmer. I was farming when the country was not returning any excise duties for energy products used in agriculture. This thing was introduced in Slovenia in 1999 under then-agricultural minister Cyril Smrkol and it was a 50 % return on excise duty, of course not on all energy consumed, but limited to the area on which you work, 40 litres per hectare of forest and so on. Today these limits are also a little questionable, as a whole bunch of yard mechanisms are also used, which are sometimes not and are not calculated in these standards, which are applied by hectares, these are so-called yard loaders, mixed steering trailers used by farmers for feed, etc. Indeed, with Minister Pogačnik, after more than a decade of demands from all non-governmental agricultural organisations to increase this, this standard has risen to 70% as a percentage and 70% remain in the legal dictatorship. This amendment should be fair. In the basic version, it was planned to give the Government a 50% leave, which I, as a coalition member of the Finance Committee, objected to, tabled an amendment to the Committee and reached this compromise that this refund could be 20%. However, on the other hand, we also have a provision that it can be increased by 40%. If Mr Weber spoke earlier about the decline, I can talk about the increase. This means that for agricultural and forestry mechanisms we can then even get to 100% of the excise duty refund. But it is not only here that the agricultural and forestry machinery is important, but here that construction is also important, which is also justified – not up to 70%, but up to 50%. Finally, Slovenian railways, which are also entitled to reimbursement of excise duty. It is said that this is a whole range of economies – as well as motorists. That's why I'm going to back this amendment with my teeth clenched, because I think it's still much better than the dictates of the article before the amendment. However, I am not quite sure that any future finance minister would hope to draw up a regulation on the reduction of excise duty, it is said, for a complete economy, because trains can stop him from having trucks in front of the ministry and farmers on the roads, not on fields and meadows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you. See, however we look at it, as colleague Žveglič explained the history of the change in the percentage of excise duty refunds, it took a really long time for this decision to be legalised a 70 % share. I do not believe that any government or minister will be able to raise this percentage, for example, to 80, 90 or even 100 %, that this is indeed a very high percentage and the highest, which has been achieved throughout the agricultural policy of the country. And even though you are saying that some minister is going to hope to lower this refund, look what's happening to us. In fact, the Minister of Finance hopes without difficulty to predict that he will sell out all assets in Slovenia. No problem in predicting that university professors will be cut by 17%. Without a problem, we hope to predict that the wages of firefighters will be reduced, and we all know that we still need them, but they are not affected by anything about the public and social benefits. He is only moved by the fact that he is increasing his profits to someone who wants to do a service in a way that increases his capital. That would make me really more careful here. Look, I don't have any problems not putting in an amendment. If I were to go to the amendment, I would go mainly for the reason that others might be interested in making sense and doing so. However, it seems to me that, at the moment and after these experiences with the Minister of Finance in one year, caution is needed. This caution can only be legalized in the National Assembly. In fact, I would not have given him the authority to reduce the cost of excise duty by 20% to energy farmers. He would not give him this authority because he will certainly take advantage of it and when he tells the farmers that we did it because we will solve something else — he always says that we have to reduce the public deficit and that that is the reason and then, of course, if anyone objects to it, the Constitutional Court is going to ask. There are a number of issues that suggest that we would not leave the Minister of Finance to his discretion whether or not he will do so. I think that what was legal must be preserved. And, colleague Žwiglič, if you are willing to think in this direction, I think we can agree on an amendment to the third reading and, I would say, a little less the powers of the Minister of Finance, which he will, be sure, take advantage of when he wishes. For this moment is indeed one of those who shows very clearly that nothing really moves him, no social situation, no broader social need is foreign to him. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. More desire for a debate, so I will open up the possibility of applying for a debate. Mr. Squirrel, then Mr. Frangez.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Otherwise, I fully believe that my fellow Member, Mr Weber, has difficulty trusting the Minister. Of course it's his business. I've had some problems and mistrust in the past. I can connect with the past. As he linked to the sale of banks and excise duties and I do not know what else to do, I, too, could in the past link the recovery of excise duty from 50 % to 70%, which is a return to agricultural and forestry activities, and, on the other hand, the enormous increase in tax burdens on farmers by agricultural policy measures, which was also made in the previous government and which Mr Weber also helped to tailor. Of course, what farmers received in return paid heavily through the tax burden. But I would not link this matter in the way that colleague Weber linked with banks and social agreements and so on. I also fully agree that what happened before would be 50%, too, too, too much power for the Minister and such a law and would not be supported by our Group of Members. However, after we went to these powers to the Government in other areas, including tobacco, alcohol and fuel within prices, it is said that the Government has the option of increasing or reducing excise duties to influence the price of fuel. I think that this percentage is still acceptable; it is said that the Government has this option, which is still acceptable. On the other hand, I would point out something else: that this could happen if it were more than 20%, that it could result in a counter-effect, that oil derivatives would not be used, or that recovery claims would not be made, but that the country would, therefore, be lost in another area. Therefore, once again; of course, I will not support the second amendment. But I will support the amendment of coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u108	I think that the debate between my boss Jank Webro and Mr Szveglich actually started very well and indicated that we are aware of the problem and that we can speak a common language. Unfortunately, the continuation of this debate has brought again the fact that we obviously do not trust ourselves because of political folklore. Mr Zwiglič, if we see one common point here, we can change this with amendments, because I believe that the law that we are enacting after a reduced procedure in one way or another – and I am convinced that the scope of the mandate of the government would be even less difficult to amend the law that this coalition would also bring through Parliament after a reduced procedure – so that there is no obstacle, so that it would not be next time to maintain sufficient flexibility in determining excise policy, to regulate such power to the government in the National Assembly, but not to give it that option. Because we have a trust problem. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance may be the first, but he's not the only one. At this point, I can say that I no longer have any confidence in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, because this same Constitutional Court allowed a referendum on pension reform last year, because this year it allowed a referendum on the Family Code, which allowed most people to decide on minority rights, and today I am reading that this same Constitutional Court allowed a referendum on the bad bank and the Slovenian State Holding, which had a hair drawn argument compared to – thank God, I apologize for the error and misinterpretation of the news. The referendum would be unconstitutional, the Constitutional Court ruled. So the referendum would be unconstitutional! This means that speaking to people about these issues is not acceptable. But he allowed it on the question of the Family Code. I ask you, who else in this country is defending the Constitution unless it is defended by the Constitutional Court? And this should be based on equal opportunities, equal vats, the same rules for all, especially similar cases. If the argument in the assessment of the pension reform and the admissibility of the referendum did not hold back before the Constitutional Court, how could it withstand the scrupulousness adopted by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, which was the "copy pasta" argument in the pension reform? That's why we have trust issues! I think it will be necessary to refer to the Constitutional Court and ask this Constitutional Court on what basis they have taken a decision, as they have today taken. On the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the very essence on which that State is built, it certainly does not. That's why we have a problem with mistrust! That is why I do not give this authority to this government, and I will oppose such authority!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I think that there is no longer a desire for debate, so we would like to conclude this debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this point or ends this agenda for the time being. We're moving on to 15. Point – Proposal for a law amending the law on amendments to the law on spatial planning. The draft law was tabled by a group of 44 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivec on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and others present! We are probably all aware of the problems of putting into space in this legislative system, so in the past there have been some additions to the Law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning. We all know the problems faced by local communities with municipal spatial plans, we all know the problems faced by national location plans and other documents, and we are also aware that the municipal spatial plans are already adopted at a time when they want to join the changes, they are in similar difficulties as those of the municipalities that are still in the process of adopting spatial plans. Therefore, we propose a new amendment to the Spatial Planning Act, which solves certain problems. The latest amendment to the Spatial Planning Act has allowed municipalities to allow for a smaller expansion of the area of building plots due to the construction of individual buildings, which represents a functional rounding of the existing building for the management of industrial, productive, agricultural, tourism or sports activities, during a period when no municipal spatial planning plans have yet been adopted. This solution is intended to maintain and develop activities in locations where, at the moment, no expansion of activities was possible due to the determination of the intended use of space and the adoption of the relevant spatial acts was still very far away due to the duration of the procedures. With the new amendment of the law, we are pursuing the objective of allowing the application of Article 29 in force to those municipalities which already have a municipal spatial plan, and the proposed solution follows the principles of the applicable law and is also in line with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. We also note that the current provision has proved to be an appropriate transitional solution to the adoption of the system law, whose submission to the legislative procedure is foreseen for the first half of 2013. According to our assessment, in the cases under consideration, the provision has produced positive effects for the development of individual activities and, in some cases, has even made it possible to correct certain shortcomings which could not be foreseen at the time of the adoption of spatial plans. The proposed amendment of the Law thus allows the application of Article 29 in force to those municipalities which have already adopted municipal spatial plans and not only those which are in the stage of adopting the municipal spatial plan. This also eliminates the controversy of the previous provision, which has in some ways dealt with the municipalities unevenly. We propose that you support this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. You can stay for the pay phone, because you'll present the committee's report. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you for saying that again. The Committee on Infrastructure and Space is at its 3rd session. 12. 2012 was treated as a parent labour body by the draft law amending the Law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 31st session. 11. It was decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Amendments to Article 1 were tabled on the proposal of the law and amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the amendment to Article 1 and of the SD Group of Members of Parliament were tabled. The applicant pointed out that the last novel on spatial planning had enabled municipalities in the reception phase to implement certain minor corrections. He stressed that the aim of the new law is to enable the application of Article 29 in force to those municipalities which already have spatial plans. Minister of Infrastructure and Space Zvonko Černač pointed out that, until the entry into force of the amendment, the Ministry had received seven hundred and forty proposals for extension, of which twenty were approved and eleven were rejected, while the remaining applications were still in resolution. He concluded that the current provision had proved to be an appropriate transitional solution to the adoption of system law. According to its assessment, in the cases considered, the provision has produced positive effects for the development of individual activities. He pointed out that the Government supported the proposed amendment of the Law and the amendment of the four coalition parliamentary groups had been tabled, as it had proved that the current regime was still restrictive in the work which allowed the application of Article 29 only to those municipalities which had not yet adopted the Municipal Spatial Plan. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the legislative and legal service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had warned that the proposed amendment would result in the loss of the transitional provision of Article 29, thereby increasing the possibility of amending and derogating from the applicable municipal spatial plans beyond the procedures of the requirements of the applicable spatial legislation. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Darko Fras, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law that would allow for the application of the provision on allowable smaller expansion of the areas of building land to municipalities that have adopted and established the UN, as economic needs are constantly changing and rapidly and sometimes cannot be foreseen in advance despite careful planning. The representative of the Legal Information Centre of NGOs Senka Vrbica, representative of the Institute for Spatial Policy Tadej Žavcar and representative of the Chamber for Architecture and Space Liljana Jankovič Grobelšek, pointed out that they disagreed with the proposed solution in the bill. They expressed the view that the spatial planning process was complex and could not be remedied by amending one Article and by means of a reduced procedure. In their view, the existing regulation needs to be changed systematically and comprehensively, and there is a need for an expert assessment of the problems and possible improvements and for the preparation and adoption of legislation for the general public. In the debate, opposition Members highlighted the legislative and legal services' warnings that the proposed solution creates the possibility of derogating from the existing UNO, beyond the procedural requirements of applicable spatial legislation. Members from the types of proposers of the bill stressed, however, that allowing for a smaller expansion of the area of the building land is only provided for in those locations where a particular activity is already being carried out. However, it is not permissible to extend to areas beyond the existing building site, which eliminates the fear of excessive expansion of betting areas. With regard to the concerns expressed by the opposition Members, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space explained that the solution is intended only for locations where an activity is already under way and the expansion of the area of building sites due to the construction of individual buildings represents a functional rounding of existing buildings. The activities involved in this solution are also specifically mentioned, but it specifically stressed that housing activity, which could be the reason for any speculation attempts, is not included in this solution. The Committee then adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Mr Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u114	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning introduces a new amendment to Article 29 and would highlight the following three segments. First of all, the new amendment also allows for use for municipalities already admitted to the OPR. With this change, we place all the congregations in an equal position, that is to say those who already have the municipal spatial plans adopted, as well as those who have them in preparation. It further allows for the expansion of building plots also for service and craft activities. The existing Article 29 law sets out very clearly and precisely the activities on which the establishment and extension of land is permitted and adds services and crafts activities. Thirdly, it also allows the extension to safeguard, secured, degraded, endangered and other areas where a specific legal regime is established by the regulation, provided that the measures envisaged are not contrary to those arrangements. The existing regime has been very strictly established here, since no protective regime was absolutely allowed to do so. We know that the security arrangements are very different, and this change allows the admissibility of the interventions to this safeguard regime to be verified and, if this is in line and if these interventions are not contrary to the restriction regime, then this segment also allows for intervention on these lands. This is how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Article 29 of the current Spatial Planning Act, which has been in force since 28 July this year, allows for a smaller expansion of the area of buildings for the purpose of building individual buildings. The land represents a functional closure of the existing building intended to carry out industrial, productive, agricultural, tourism and sports activities under legal conditions only in municipalities which do not yet have established municipal spatial plans. With this proposed amendment of the law, we would therefore like to make it possible to apply the provision on allowable smaller expansion of the area of building land from 1 January 2015 also to the municipalities which have adopted and established — sorry, there is up to 1. 1. 2015 also to municipalities that have adopted and implemented municipal spatial plans, as they also face similar difficulties in developing activities that are generators of economic development in individual municipalities. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill and we will also support the proposed amendment to Article 1. The proposed amendment will, according to our assessment, allow for the implementation of the provisions of this Article in practice and allow for controlled and responsible interventions into a protective, secured, degraded, threatened and also other areas where a specific legal regime is established on the basis of the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar! The proposed amendment to the Spatial Planning Act amends the existing Article 29 of the Act in particular with a view to remedying certain problems and inequalities that have proved to be problematic in practice. It is about building or resuscitating certain buildings, which have been waiting for their realisation for years because of rigidity and, above all, the slow administration in the area of space regulation. Thus, even those rare economists who are doing well in these times and who could invest in production facilities and thus in new jobs are prevented from expanding smaller facilities. The fact is, if we want to start an economy, we will have to make some changes at this point or that part of the economy that remains in Slovenia will escape abroad, where better conditions and faster administrative procedures can offer them. The original purpose of the existing law was to allow municipalities which do not yet have an accepted municipal spatial plan, under certain conditions from 2015, to have less expansion of building land if industrial, tourist, agricultural, sports and similar needs. Given that the municipalities were thus placed in a rather unequal position, the Ministry proposed that the condition of the adopted municipal spatial plan be deleted from the law and that the time limit allowed until 1 January 2015. The thoughts expressed by the Commission to prevent corruption to amend Article 29 of the existing law have been taken seriously in New Slovenia. Nevertheless, we believe that a number of safeguards have been incorporated in the law, which will ensure the transparency and legality of all procedures under the proper supervision of the competent authorities. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the amendment to Article 29 means some minor liberalisation of the existing construction regime in the agricultural land area. Therefore, in this place, all the competent institutions are also calling for compromises to keep the economy breathing while protecting the natural environment. In anticipation of this success, this law will be unanimously supported in New Slovenia. We will also support the amendment to the Article 1 Act, which has been signed by the coalition parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello, everyone in the hall. Thus, the proposal for a law amending the Law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning, which we are considering today, introduces uncontrolled expansion of the areas of building land into the Slovenian legal order and space, thus allowing for the spatial development of Slovenia not to take place in accordance with the current strategy for spatial development of Slovenia or with international origins. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Spatial Planning Act was adopted on 27 July this year. The proposed then amended Article 29 of the Law now states that under this provision, investors and municipalities already having an OPT or municipal spatial plan are placed in an unequal position, and the applicant considers it appropriate to correct Article 29 in order to enable the use of this scheme to be possible also for municipalities which already have a valid municipal spatial plan. Positive Slovenia disagrees with the applicant's remarks, as the amendment to Article 29 of that Act allows for the expansion of the area of building land, which is at the same time contrary to the new, not yet adopted spatial plans of the municipality and consequently the Spatial Planning Act. We agree with the legislative and legal services' warnings that it is not a protector to extend building land to water and agricultural areas and that it is not clear from the procedure whether it is necessary to assess the environmental impact of the competent ministry. The amendment to this law will have a negative impact on the expansion of the area of building land, since it will not include professional starting points and positions and raises questions about the whole systematic approach to planning in space. The expert judgement of the competent operators for the adoption of spatial acts, public participation and compliance with the principles of sustainable development of Slovenia should be included, which is not covered by the proposal in Article 29. Both professional and local communities and state authorities agree that the Spatial Planning Act needs to be thoroughly amended or systematically resolved by a comprehensive new law and not to create systemic bypasses, as we do or, sorry, you are doing today. Allow me some points of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia. The role of spatial legislation is to protect public interest and to provide conditions for effective space management. Space is a territorially limited good and one of the most stable components of national identity and culture. Quality-controlled space is a tangible economic structure that reflects the performance rate of the company, preserves the value of investment, stimulates interest and enhances investor confidence, provides a basis for quality of stay, development of activities and long-term stability of socio-economic development. The consequences of the irresponsible use of space only show up after a long period of time and in many cases constitute irreversible damage. Legal solutions that arise without adequate analysis of problems, situations, needs and without taking into account professional recommendations and knowledge and public debates are critical and therefore cannot effectively support coherent spatial, social and economic development as such in the long term. At the stage of the adoption of regulations, the problem seems to be growing and there is an increasing impression that we are all familiar with the problem of regulating the premises and building the buildings. There are few decision makers who are aware of the complexities of public interest protection in the space and the intertwining of knowledge and experience of the parent lines of spatial planning and construction of buildings and related areas of social development, culture, environmental protection, economy, public finances and public administration. However, the implementation phase is also problematic in other aspects and reveals in particular the problems of taking responsibility for individual decisions in a series of actions necessary from the preparation of project documentation to the operation of inspection services. The solutions that have been offered in recent years to remove administrative barriers already cause more damage than you can imagine those who take their stand for them. And also if we look at what the anti-corruption commission thinks. Mr and New Slovenia said that the concerns expressed by the anti-corruption commission are, of course, taken into account, but you take this seriously so seriously that you do not respect them and do not respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec, once again, this time on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you. One more time. In the parliamentary group, we will of course support the proposed amendment to the law on changes in spatial planning. We will also support the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups that have tabled it and which further improves this law, and this is because everyone in this room, at least in appearance, advocates the removal of bureaucratic barriers, to make our legal system more effective and when we come up with such a proposal, many questions are raised by some. Remember the previous term when we spoke for three years about the need for a system law that would, as an exceptional measure, interfere with line infrastructure facilities in space. After three years we have reached the law on the basis of all the professional grounds, based on respect for all those who have explained to us how legislation should be viewed as a whole, how we must respect the rule of law. All of these proposals have led us to adopt a law that was eventually a law as a basic law that allows for the placement of objects into space. In this case, we are trying with an extraordinary solution, which, of course, is under a lot of control, and I do not agree with those who have a flat-rate assessment that this will allow for some uncontrolled placement of individual objects into space. Those who have read the first novel and this complementary proposal may find that controls and control mechanisms are absolutely integrated and must also be respected by those who submit applications. And I do not understand the views that the amendment proposed by a legal body such as the municipal council to the Ministry may be disputed and, on the other hand, the municipal spatial plan adopted by the same body in the same composition is indisputable. I hope you are aware of how you are discussing some credibility of some authorities in this country that have all the legitimacy. On the other hand, it is also incumbent on the municipal council to respect the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure in the event of interference with certain protected areas and additional regulations governing those areas. And when there's a lot of fuss about these protected areas, I'll tell you on a case-by-case basis that we know what we're talking about. In the case of a specific farm which would like to expand, it may be located next to an existing barn which is protected. This area could also be a few hundred hectares long and have some status as a protected area. Is there a dispute in this case between you and some extension of the barn for a few hundred square feet to a plot that is a hundred hectares large and has insurance status?In this case, it is incumbent on the authority that carried out this insurance and secured this land to assess whether this intervention to this protected area, which is connected to a plot number – and I hope that you are all aware of what this means – it is necessary to assess whether this intervention is so drastic that it nullifies or degrades this protection of value or whatever. And that's true in all cases. Thus, all the guardians in this proposal are incorporated into the law. I believe that if you read this law with understanding and sometimes follow a positive approach to this legislation, you will also understand that this is a law that allows for solutions in certain cases. There have also been cases where European funds can be returned due to such a serious understanding of individual articles in the legislation. Therefore, the proposal for this amendment has also been proposed for confirmation. We will accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u124	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, Secretary of State, other present, nice greetings! Social Democrats strongly oppose this law. This is another law by which the current coalition effectively damages not only the functioning of the rule of law but also formalism itself in the rule of law. Let me give you two or three arguments. At this point, the Court of Auditors is in the process of being audited or completed, but in fact, the Court of Auditors' proposal on the effectiveness of agricultural land protection as a condition for food self-sustainment is already before us. Their final decision is simple: in 2010 they were not successful in protecting agricultural land, which is a fundamental condition for the implementation of the self-sustainment policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you this so that you do not fall behind in the fact that removing administrative barriers is a complete withdrawal from the protection of natural resources. Just the opposite! Removing administrative barriers also means saying very quickly or immediately what is possible and what is not, and you are attacking agricultural land again with this law. Then formalism. The honourable Members and Members, the competent committee which discussed this, were convened in total contravention of the small constitution. The regular meeting, the President-in-Office, of the small constitutions is clear – a minimum of 14 days. You broke her whole! Not 12! Any violation of the Constitution or of a small constitution shall be inadmissible. Next. You have received, like all Members of this Committee, a strongly negative opinion from the Commission on the prevention of corruption. Was the commission invited to your committee? She wasn't invited! This happens extremely rarely. I guess she wasn't invited because she wrote some things you don't want to hear. I will take this opportunity to read it to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Since there is not much time, only three or four sentences, unfortunately: "This legislative practice, as assessed by the Commission, poses a direct threat to the legal predictability and legal security of natural and legal persons. As such, it entails built-in risks of systemic corruption that threaten the public interest and the functioning of the rule of law." To read, honourable Members and Members, the following: "The proposed amendments to the law also have an additional impact on the rise of corruption risks in the local environment, as they have, with exceptions, interfere with established spatial planning and municipal spatial acts. The latter have a statutory and established purpose and objective of the content and manner of participation of the interested public in their adoption and modification. The exception proposed by this amendment to the law is becoming a rule, the role of the profession and the public is further marginalised and excluded, which means less transparency and less control. In other words, more risks that have been proven" – pay attention! - "which have proven to lead to systemic corruption and other illegal acts." Therefore, honourable Members and Members, the Commission proposes: "With all the above-mentioned Commissions, the National Assembly proposes to reject the proposed amendment of the law, to initiate a legislative procedure after reflection and after discussion, thus eliminating the risks and consequences of this amendment." I must inform you, honourable Members, that Members of the Social Democrats understand what the warnings of the Commission mean. I suggest you understand everyone else, because also because you overhear such warnings, we have more and more people in front of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ms. Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u126	All in attendance, all in attendance! The implementation of building legislation, in particular the placement of facilities into space, is long and therefore costly in most countries. Therefore, many companies abandon their investment idea and Slovenia is no exception. According to international research, which took into account three indicators, the number of steps, the time and costs needed, Slovenia was in the 90th place in 2010 in this area. Such obstacles can be even more disturbing for both domestic and foreign investors than the tax rules themselves. It is known that difficulties in obtaining consensus and time constraints arise mainly in the preparation and adoption of spatial acts and in obtaining environmental permits and consents. All of this has an impact on the preparation of municipal spatial plans, which take place extremely slowly, as less than 20% of all Slovene municipalities have adopted their spatial plan since the enactment of the law. Municipal spatial plans are urgently needed for the implementation of their development projects and for greater investment investments in their area, which will bring new jobs, more development and also prosperity. The conditions and challenges we face today also require this. In its programme, the Citizens' List has committed itself to supporting and managing programmes and projects aimed at simplifying the business and legislative environment for the development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. That is why we also supported the amendment of the Spatial Planning Act in July. Today, for the second time this year, we are amending this law, as economic needs are constantly changing and rapidly changing and cannot always be anticipated in advance despite careful planning. By adopting this novel, we will also allow those municipalities with already adopted municipal spatial plans an extremely limited and time-limited possibility of reducing the expansion of betland areas, and this is only for the purpose of building a separate building that represents a functional rounding of the existing building. In the Citizens' List, we are committed to simplifying spatial planning of municipalities mainly by limiting the power of state bureaucracy and the application of the principle of trust in local authorities. That is why we will support Members and Members of the National List as well as the coalition amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Zveglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u128	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, once again a good day! In the Slovenian People's Party, we support amendments to the laws relating to interventions into space, as we know from experience that these procedures are complex and often long-lasting. In July, we supported the amendment of Article 29 of the Spatial Planning Act, which already allows for a smaller expansion of the area of betland for the construction of individual buildings, which represent a functional rounding of the existing building, but only to municipalities that do not yet have accepted municipal spatial plans. In these few months, it has proved to be difficult and long-lasting in many municipalities, and I must kindly say that these are long-standing procedures, the adoption of municipal spatial plans. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that smaller enlargements, which represent functional closures of the existing building, can also be allowed, in the spirit of promoting entrepreneurship, to investors in those municipalities that already have a municipal spatial plan. In doing so, we support the expansion of destination also for facilities intended for the provision of crafts and services. The exceptions so far have allowed for smaller expansions for industrial, productive, agricultural and tourism activities, sport activities, and henceforth this will also be clear for trade and services. With the support of this supplement, we in the Slovenian People's Party's Group rejected the amendment which exempts the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment from the procedures for verifying the admissibility of enlargement. Indeed, we are convinced that all competent institutions which have to scrutinise the admissibility of the building must be included in these procedures. In particular, this must apply to procedures relating to Article 29 of the Law, which allows for, let us not forget, the extension outside of accepted spatial acts. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have also listened to the warnings of the competent institutions, led by the Commission to prevent corruption, which challenges all expansions of the building outside the accepted spatial acts. In particular, we are reminded of the inherent risk of systemic corruption. Therefore, these exemptions also require further restrictions on land where a specific legal regime is established, in particular on protective, threatened, protected, degraded areas and so on. In doing so, we stress that the proposed amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act will be supported on the basis of the express commitment made by the Minister last month in the National Assembly, so that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space will draw up a new law on spatial planning, which will regulate this area in its entirety without exception and which can enter into force on 1 July next year. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the proposed amendment to the law in the economic situation in question is acceptable, despite the warnings from the professional chambers and the Commission to prevent corruption, and to supplement the spatial planning law. Therefore, in particular, in order to promote and improve the conditions for the economy, it also has the support of the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. That was the last of the parliamentary positions. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. We will carry out it on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 18. 12. 2012. We have two amendments to Article 1, namely the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the coalition groups of Members. Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed amendments to Article 1? There'll probably be some debaters, so I'm opening an application for a debate. Here you go. Three debaters, first of all, will have the word of Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you. The amendment proposed under Article 1 speaks of the deletion of this Article. It is also the only possible solution not to allow such uncontrolled interventions into space. If we have already somehow tried to understand that in those municipalities where, for example, they have not yet been able to adopt spatial acts and this process takes, I don't know, even 10 years, it is still possible to understand that there is an exception, which allows someone to make a 5000 square metres of surfaces that were not previously walled up, to try to implement their project for the purposes of the economy, agriculture, tourism, sport and so on, or, above all, to this extent, this change has been envisaged, but there is no way that we can accept the fact that in the municipalities that have already adopted new spatial acts, today you are trying to legislate an amendment that, even though these procedures have gone through all stages of verification, coordination, this simply does not apply to you and you want to allow again exceptions that will allow construction in particular and explicitly on agricultural land. While some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account in the sense that you include some additional restrictions and verifications when it comes to areas with a specific protection regime, there are no restrictions on agricultural areas. What we are asked as a very important question is not only what the Commission points out to prevent corruption in order to achieve narrow interests, negotiations: we will do it a favor, perhaps again to those who are not from the right political option, we will not do a service in the municipal world and so on. But look, despite everything that you think a whole series of problems and a desire to do something may be resolved here, you have to realize that once one of the parties is settled, you can hurt a whole range of others. Five thousand square meters is not so small, however, if we talk about some rounding within the settlement, and what could happen is that someone could get under the window some production that would cause significantly more noise than until yesterday, when there was at least some intermediate distance between the apartment building and the production facility. It may be that there will be a stench of some activity that can be carried out there. There may also be dust particles in that environment, and everyone affected by this has no opportunity to give timely attention to this problem and to try to take this into account before the expansion of the building area is allowed. So out of the apparent desire to try to please one party, this could cause a conflict at five, ten. Why would we go this way, which will certainly cause much more problems in the environment than a solution? Last but not least, if we look at the number of municipalities in Slovenia, a pretty number of them have been created. Each municipality plans some production or industrial zone and I believe that there is enough space in each municipality in industrial zones or in areas that are intended for some production activity. I believe that the crisis is possible in those environments that are extremely concentrated and virtually no longer some areas depending on the size of the municipality, so that we can expand our activities and try to find within that minimum possibility of enlargement, but this is possible five municipalities in Slovenia. For all others, quite a few surfaces are available, which are communally equipped, waiting for the buyer to be finally available. Even if we are talking about this problem of expanding for one activity, it is important to ask whether adequate municipal equipment is also provided for all this activity. This is one of the issues that you can solve and learn in the process of modifying the spatial act, but if you avoid a number of co-conspirators who will not participate in this process after this proposal, this problem can also happen, otherwise someone will be granted a building permit, and later will have a problem in establishing their own production, because certain industrial or municipal waters will not be adapted to this. This is also pointed out by the profession and I do not know why in Slovenia in the last period it is true if it points to something of the profession, nothing applies. If we had previously discussed in the Higher Education Act that the only goal is to open the way to private education and introduce tuition; in short, we are opening the way to capital – this law is also entirely identical in its content and reflects the neoliberal policy of the development of Slovenia, which gives only and only the advantage of capital. The way a person lives in an environment is a completely different matter. In municipalities that have already adopted spatial acts, it would be good if the applicants, before introducing this law, had made an analysis of whether these municipalities have already adopted spatial acts – but these are spatial acts that were adopted one year, two, three years ago; for example, in a very short period – whether these municipalities do not have enough area to provide sport, cultural activity, agricultural activity, industrial activity, which you consider to be a very large failure in these municipalities that have adopted acts one, two or three years ago. If this is the only question that the applicant would answer in this law that the spatial acts adopted recently are adopted in a way that does not allow the expansion of trade, that does not allow the establishment of new economic activities, that does not allow the development of tourism, then he would understand the purpose of shortening the process and risking those 5,000 square metres of agricultural areas, so that we help the community and the people living there to create. But I am confident that all of these congregations have sufficient surfaces for the needs outlined in this bill. Thus, we cannot understand differently than simply by really wanting for a specific person who is, say, a personal friend, or a family friend, or an important political factor, to please. Of course, if you want to please this, then there is too much expertise, then there are too many warnings from co-conspirators, then there are too many warnings from neighbors and all those who can be affected by such simplified procedures. I believe that such an approach to space is really not well thought out. I would understand if today we had a law on the table that would allow, after a very short process, the placement of infrastructure facilities — those that are primarily national or decisive for a local community, to be included in the flow it needs to follow developments. However, this infrastructure law does not speak. I think it would be much more appropriate to consider first trying to resolve the placement of infrastructure into space, and then, when you have this infrastructure built, you can also provide in further procedures the development of all activities that are possible through the process of checking permissive interventions into space. I also think that this criterion of the adequacy of infrastructure – at least not to be seen in the explanation – is not sufficiently analysed and we cannot get rid of the feeling that it has only grown in some narrow interests, which have been described very nicely by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I believe that such an approach is not a good one and we will have more problems and conflicts than if we did not adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Schuline.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u132	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! I will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, because it also allows for the development of a small and medium-sized economy in the countryside. Let me say that in the Municipality of Nova Gorica we received a municipal spatial plan only this year, one month ago, in November. So after more than a decade. There have been many reports of mayors, city councillors, who have done nothing to blame. It was later stuck at the state level, and by the ministries, when appropriate agreement was given on this municipal spatial plan, probably all the congregations met with it, not just ours. This year we finally received this municipal spatial plan from the state and later, of course, we were very happy and with great hope also after the development of economic activity, we also confirmed it on the city council in the Municipality of Nova Gorica. It is true that this municipal spatial plan also covers industrial zones, but unfortunately, it is mainly in the city itself or in its immediate surroundings that the prices of these industrial zones are very expensive to buy or rent. It was then apparent that something needed to be done to expand trade, tourism and also agricultural activity, as a basic activity or complementary, could also be extended to rural areas. However, it was because of all the obstacles that this law is now overturning that prevented. Probably somewhere in the countryside someone who deals with agriculture and still has farm tourism, cares about all the other things, can't do it in the industrial zone in the city itself. That's probably understandable to everyone. This eliminates some important administrative obstacles and offers an opportunity where the relevant authorities will also find that the facility can also reach the agricultural area, where it will, of course, represent this functional rounding. It also seems very important to me that there remain some protected areas that are protected and as such threatened. So much fear that there will be some big corruption, I don't see. It is right that the Commission has also pointed out this to prevent corruption. Otherwise, corruption is possible everywhere, and we also have the appropriate authorities. I see this law in particular in that it offers a hand to those who want to extend an object to increase their activity, which has so far been disabled or hampered, or who have not even been able to establish it in certain areas. Those who fear for agricultural land – I welcome this fear! In fact, Slovenian land is small and agricultural in general. If I take our karst area, I can also say that land categorized as agricultural land is in the karst area, it is a very bad agricultural land in the sense of a land that would produce a lot of crops. And here people face these obstacles after the expansion of the facilities in these areas as well. In a conversation with the inhabitants of Crassus, this Crassus, I am talking about the area of solitude, Komnu etc., farmers who would like to expand their barns have expanded their tourism-farming activities and have had problems with this for decades. Instead of expanding their activities, thus opening up a number of jobs, they have so far failed. I hope we can also look at this aspect of our legislation. But there's something else I'd like to appeal to my colleagues in Social Democracy. Don't call people to protest! As soon as the polls show you that you are currently – just now – I stress – do not do this in the first place, because it happened that the voters who gave Positive Slovenia at the moment, I say, fewer votes, somehow this left option went to your vote or offered you their vote more at the moment. I hope you know what you're doing, what you're saying, but, of course, protests are a legitimate, lawful thing when they're calm. However, I would ask that, rather than calling for protests, we step together to do something for citizens, which is also what this spatial planning law is doing. So I would ask that we focus here on legislation to look together for problems, solutions — nothing wrong if we sometimes have conflicting opinions, but let us all be constructive together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec is also on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thanks again for saying that. I'm gonna touch the amendments a little bit more. I do not, of course, support the amendment of the SD that this article withdraws and that this law is somehow abolished. I will support the amendment of the coalition groups. However, I will also respond to some of the debates that were ahead of me, where the opinion of the anti-corruption commission has also been discussed. But it was said that this law allowed for greater corruption. Now I do not know if my predecessors have said this from their own experience or have any tangible arguments for this, because the opinion is the opinion, as is the opinion of the other institutions that we receive in the National Assembly. It should be known, however, that despite the fact that we are defending current legislation, anomalies and corruption have been taking place to a large extent in those municipalities that have adopted individual spatial plans just prior to the present and have largely occupied agricultural land. This law, which we propose, has all the security guards that this is not happening and that we are already going to look for exceptions to do so in a transparent way. First, at the initiative of the municipal council, which some as former mayors now say would be said by a corrupt authority; it is said that they speak again from their own experience. I don't have that experience, and I've never heard it before. It is said that the municipal authority which adopts spatial plans participates in all stages and, in the end, also approves the spatial plan, cannot confirm or propose any addition to this plan. It's also, for my understanding, confused with some healthy farm logic. This proposal is not made by the mayor, but by the municipal council, as stated in the law. This is an exception in those areas where this is linked to an existing activity. I hope we are aware of what existing activity means. This does not mean that a new infrastructure needs to be re-installed, that there is a need to re-evaluate it because it allows for the extension of a certain activity to a lesser extent. This means that an activity already carried out at a location for which it has already obtained valid documents, judgements and everything and is legally carried out at that location may be extended to that third which it permits. This may also save a new job. The same applies to farms, and the same applies to a tourist facility. This does not mean that someone can come and demand a new installation of the facility. It also proves that, on the basis of the first novel, which allowed municipalities that did not have accepted spatial plans – which is the majority in Slovenia, because we know that 50 are possible – it is said that about 200 municipalities have now produced this, as the Ministry has given information, 47 proposals. This is not huge and of this 11 were rejected, 22 were approved and some are still under consideration. So there's no automatism and no one can, without going through any judgment, get extensions for their activity. Housing construction is excluded, where the most speculation occurs. In the final phase, the proposal that the municipality makes must also be incorporated into the spatial plan in the next stages. To speak so casually that the congregations do so in some ad hoc way, it seems a little low to our local government. As I know, each congregation, whether in its municipal administration or rented, has someone who deals with space. This is also an expert person: either a landscape architect or some other architect. Someone's preparing these documents. Why are you so underestimating local communities or suggestions that come in this way? For the congregations must determine whether an extension is in their interest, until it comes to it, this initiative cannot be murmured at the Ministry because it will be rejected. The local community is preparing this in some professional way. It's not one letter that's just being sent. With regard to the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, I have also read it, and there is another paragraph to read in this document. Behind that paragraph read by a colleague of the Jews, I quote: "The Commission does not dispute the assessment of the applicants and the needs of individual life cases when the legitimate reasons require legal exceptions to interventions to the premises. In the framework of its powers, it only stresses that exceptions must be carefully weighed and coordinated with what the law defines as a dominant rule." If we read this well and understand it, it means that we can't do a factory next to the farm as an extension or another craftsmanship. So, next to the farm, someone can only ask for the extension of the farm. In addition to a hotel or tourist activity, one can apply for the part already identified in the existing spatial plan, has been assessed, has also been placed through public treatment, along with some crafts activity of the same craftsmanship. That's what the commission's warning. In all of these cases, someone on a professional level prepares a proposal, which first goes to one ministry, which looks at whether this extension is appropriate, meaningful and another ministry. I will stress once again, be aware of how this system is written in our country, as far as spatial legislation is concerned. I'm not going to mention the nature that everyone is so happy to mention when it suits you. You have insurance in many areas on a very large surface because it is catastrotic so defined and some plot can be extremely large and has some protection status. Right on the edge where this extension would happen, there is no need for any protection to be carried out. The competent authority may find that out peacefully if it so wishes. If we do not record these exceptions in the same way as in this law, the administrative authority will simply reject any role on the basis that the whole area as a partial number is protected by some status. You also point out in your deliberations that the problem of Nature or other protections is not that it is a prohibition, but that our officials do not read it at all. Be aware that one leap must be made in this area. Some insurance does not constitute an absolute prohibition, especially in such cases where the areas linked to the parcel number are extremely large. With this law and with the amendments we are proposing, this is exactly what we are trying to resolve, that the administrative authority also has the option to decide in a particular case, not to simply put itself in the position that this parcel is protected and not even a minimum intervention, can in a thousandths or tens of thousands not be possible, and that in an area that, when properly inspected by all those who have protected this area, they have clearly found that there is no need for this protection to be enforced. It's a matter of minimality. If we don't let that happen, we can just block things. Why is this so for those congregations that have adopted spatial plans? Therefore, even in these cases, the amendment procedures are extremely long. It has happened, unfortunately, that also certain municipalities that have adopted spatial plans that went into European projects have come into a situation where, due to ten square metres that interferes with an area that has already been identified in spatial plans, they can lose European funds and return them. In these cases, any one of you who would go to a particular case would probably be in the same position as we are, that such cases should be considered that an official cannot only express some protection from the point of view of some existing legislation, but that a particular case should also be assessed and decided whether such protection is necessary to the extent that it is necessary to the extent that it is on the entire existing land. So I still believe that many of you will change your position and support this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. More debaters, so we'll open up an opportunity to apply. Here you go, Mr. Roman Zveglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Of course, I support the amendment of the law; but by supporting it, I was immediately assigned to one group of clienteleistic, corrupt, and I do not know what other networks and octopuses. I must say that I have never been a councilman in my life, nor a mayor, nor a parishioner, so you can just stick it somewhere — the one you're reading to me. I will support the coalition amendment because it also retains a legal regime in these areas, which must be in those areas and which I think is right and right. But why don't we support the amendment of the Social Democrats, and I'll try to be alive. A farmer in Prekmurje who deals with vegetables already has a refrigerator, but he is closed and wants to expand one part of the refrigerator. So he's going to try these crops of his, because the big chains of commerce have squeezed him, sold him directly to the buyers, so he has to get some conditions for it, and he wants to expand his refrigerator. Of course he can't and the good urbanists told him to build this refrigerator in Murski Sobota in a trade zone and drive the vegetables into a refrigerator in a crafts zone in Mursko Sobota and then back to that village, because he also has a shop for this in his area or in the market and so on. Look, wrong! This article allows him to round this thing up. In these complex economic circumstances, it is necessary – I am going to go on another occasion, because we know that of these 22, or how many already approved, the most agricultural issues are the expansion of the barns. The year 2015 is coming when milk quotas are abolished. It needs to be prepared at this time. Even those municipalities that have already adopted municipal spatial plans that began to be amended in 2007 and 2006 were adopted this year. Then, so many years ago, it was very difficult to plan what you would do with your activity in the long run. When, for example, the successor took over the farm in the meantime, he came up with the idea of extension, they said, you know what, if we give you this area again, so that you can extend the barn, it will bring along so many and so many procedures, gain consensus and so on, that for at least two years it will completely reject the adoption of the municipal plans. So they didn't take his wishes into account. This article and this law, however, enable it to extend its economic initiative and thus survive. However, as regards agricultural land protection, the following: From the memorial was built on agricultural land, unless the building was demolished and built in that place or if the forest fell. From the memory! This will be the case in the future, for it is difficult to build in the air — is it not? Unless we make some big crevice, then we'll live on it, and so, we'll look down a little bit, and the world will seem so much simpler to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u138	Dear Vice President and others! I am not so concerned that this article also allows for attacks on agricultural land if this is considered and if it interferes with a procedure. However, I am concerned about the fact that interventions are allowed to take place on any land without all the actors who are called upon to give their views on interventions to the premises. By chance you also received a letter from the Space Network, i.e. the Institute for Spatial Policy, where it is beautifully written that the Space Network opposes the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Spatial Planning Act submitted by Members, both substantively and procedurally. Public participation is impossible in the process, the abuse of reduced procedures, despite the fact that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is preparing systemic legislation, a system law that we are all talking about, once and for all, that we must have spatial legislation regulated and not so partial. The excuse that it is necessary to allow interference into space does not hold back. Lack of explanation for the unacceptable spread of unacceptable exemptions and so on. This indisputably reveals that poor planners — those who prepared the municipal spatial plan — obviously went through all stages because we know that few municipalities have adopted the municipal spatial plan. If they were so "shamps" that they overlooked what needed to be done and how they would be after so many years – you know that they did not cover that an object needed not yet know what motive or that a certain activity needed not yet know what kind of square, or maybe in the process they did not get the consent of the competent or all the called actors who decided to intervene in the space, true planners. Then, by amending this Article 29, what did not go first through the regulatory, normal process and procedure, we allow certain investors, whatever the case, to come up with a project that would otherwise be controversial. But the key question is what will happen if this law allows for some expansion by means of this article. However, since we know that the consequences of the intervention in space are mostly felt after a while, and when we plan any intervention in the infrastructure needed for the wider community, we will find that this is impossible or that we will have significantly higher costs because we will have to go far away because this facility, where a common public infrastructure is supposed to take place, cannot be carried out for a simple reason because this article 29 or this change allows us to intervene in a space without the inclusion of the profession. I've said many times that it's worse for the country where politics rises above the profession. Interestingly, experts are not to be taken into account here. It is more than obvious that the profession is an obstacle to the non-professional placement of objects in space; hence, politics takes the right to decide without a profession. That is why we have, ladies and gentlemen, problems and problems in our country! We've been running this country for 20 years and so many years, and we've made it more complicated than anyone would have expected. Although I cannot support such a law, I am pleased that at least you of the coalition's parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment that you will vote to the extent that you so relent so much that these drastic interventions will not occur in the space that could otherwise happen. But look! You all had so much to say across the Municipality of Ljubljana, and here is the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana for a concrete amendment to this article: "We believe that the proposed amendment to the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 29 of the Law on Spatial Planning is unacceptable and illegal. The same applies to that article, which has been adopted and enforced by previous amendments to the Spatial Planning Act in spite of opposition by municipalities and the professional public, and allows for changes to the municipal spatial plans without the participation of spatial regulators and public hearings. The proposed amendment merely constitutes an additional illegal amendment to the municipal spatial plan, so we strongly oppose it and at the same time propose the repeal of the constitutionally disputed article 29 of the Spatial Planning Act." So dear ladies and gentlemen! We're allowing ourselves here something we shouldn't otherwise have. We Accept Laws — Why? To make it easier or to make it impossible? Or in a few days, in fifteen days, maybe in a month, an investor will call again to the National Assembly and say, "Lords, Members and Members, how about we change article 16 of the Spatial Planning Act." Or, say, I don't know, 22 or any other article. Or let us once again amend Article 29 because it cannot be extended to where it could otherwise be, or because I have tried to accept or build something in the normal process of adopting a municipal plan that has otherwise been met with public opposition. Now he's actually going to do it because he doesn't ask the public anymore. This is said to be the question of key decision-makers. What saddens me most is that when planning space, editing and placing in the space of such or other objects, it is ignored professionally. We're not space intervention experts. We may have desires, we may understand the needs of someone, but we're not experts. Therefore, we must strive to adopt as soon as possible a system law that will give all stages, from the public to the profession and at the end of the policy. And yet, who do we make the law? Again? For this House? No! No! For those who actually live this life and try to live it as best as possible. But look, we always say that corruption is possible, that such and other actions are possible. If the Anti-Corruption Commission warns us that this law opens an even wider door to potential corruption in practice, and we say, "You know what, corruption commission..." Yeah, why do we even have one? Let's call it off! One less cost! Crisis action, we end the anti-corruption commission, because we don't take it into account anyway. Later, the post-festum, when we discover in a year that, on the basis of this amendment to the law, article 29, we will say, "Well, it happened." In the first place, we should be careful not to encourage such or other actions. Earlier, Mrs Patricia Shulin had allowed herself to protest when she somehow called on the party of the Social Democrats not to call for protests because they had increased their popularity in the polls. They don't call for protests! Protests are invited by reckless austerity measures. People are invited to protest because they are no longer able to endure because they are already on the verge of despair. People don't come to the road because someone would invite them to come from a warm and cold to raise their ratings! People come from warm to cold, to cold, to minus when there is distress, when they no longer have warm, when they no longer have to smoke, not for heating or for covering bills. I, Madam Vice-President, would not take this, but given that this time allows me, and given that you have allowed Mrs Schulin to do so, I, too, dare to jump away from the point of the agenda a little while ago. Economic growth will not rise with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u139	Well, still, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Mouse would go to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u140	I will. I'm going back to the subject. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u141	Article 1 and to the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your warning. Let me just wrap this up. Economic growth will not rise by savings, but in the Spatial Planning Act, I am still concerned that we do not take into account the opinion of the profession, that we do not respect anyone who is properly professional and qualified. Do we even need knowledge in this country?Oh, my God! No! No! In this country we can actually decide everything. If we ignore the profession, why do we have all these offices, institutions, why do we educate, what kind of policy message we give to young students of architecture, future landscape architects who are supposed to decide to put objects into space if we don't even invite them here when we change legislation? What would we miss if we took 15, 20 days, 30 days, and two months?Oh, my God! Who's burning the water?Oh, my God! I would like to know if someone would be there or whether I am calling on the media to monitor from the moment of the adoption of this amendment to Article 29 of the Law, which objects or projects will benefit from this amendment. In six months, we will find out, perhaps within one year, which investors have actually been rewarded with this change. Once again, I protest that, with this change, we reward the poor planners of space. We reward those who did not see this coming where the municipal spatial plan was adopted. We're correcting the mistakes of those who were called to put this in space. Why are we doing this? Why are we ignoring the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service? Why are we ignoring the opinion of the anti-corruption commission? Why are we ignoring the profession's opinion? My dears, I've already said that I've been here for a year in Parliament, and I don't know if I'm going to last much longer for a simple reason, because I'm ashamed of being part of a team that actually ignores everything that's sacred in this country. The world, however, is knowledge, engineering knowledge, and all that we actually have at our disposal. It is interesting that we are offered to be asked, call us, we advise you free of charge, we tell you what this space needs. No! No! We say, "No!" We want to show the strength of the argument and the argument of power. The argument of power always wins, so where the argument of power wins, I'm not there, I don't want to be there. I don't want to be part of a parliament that works against its own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u143	Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u144	As the oldest of those who are now here, I must protest or tell my colleague, Gaspar Gaspar Misic, if he feels so bad in Parliament, I suppose he didn't even know where he went. I believe you were politically illiterate when Mr Jankovic put you on the list. You [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u145	Lord Jerovšek, [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u146	Yeah, no! That is what I must say in the protection of Parliament!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u147	Lord Jerovšek, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u148	He and Mr Jankovic are ashamed of Parliament! [[...]] There is no one else in Europe!This is the greatest shame possible. He points out how ashamed he is of being a parliamentarian. None [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u149	Mr. Jerovšek! [[...]] Please, it's business. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u150	That's outrageous! [[...]] You will not hear this in any other Parliament. Stand down! Really back off, so we won't listen to anyone be ashamed of Parliamentarianism anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I note, like many times before, that this has not been a procedural proposal in terms of the correct application of our Rules of Procedure. I suggest we move forward with the debate. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Even I sometimes lose words when I hear such things. Dear fellow, it will be difficult to succeed today. I'd like to say the next thing that's connected to this article, I'm a little sorry that Patricia Shulin isn't here, and I hope she's listening to me. I am very careful about what I say in the National Assembly, even yesterday, when we spoke about another, even a very big problem, I said in advance that I do not want to speak in any way to offend anyone. But I don't allow a member of the coalition here to convert my words! Get him to bring a magnetogram and show me where I called for a demonstration! I was talking about why the demonstrations I understand and – respected, respected – I will explain this again: people are frustrated! I, too, am frustrated to see what goes through what our legislative service says is even legally acceptable. I am frustrated when you adopt laws – not here, you accept them – which the anti-corruption commission does not speak in any doubt, but speaks: do not accept. That's not ambiguity, yes or no. It says not to accept that you can [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] She can't do anything else. We've made it obvious in this state of toothless tiger who doesn't even know how to roar because you can't hear him. That is why I ask you, Madam President, to make sure that your Member apologizes to me, because it is condescending for the words to be converted. Secondly, honourable Member, I rarely read, I even think it is wrong for Members of the National Assembly to read because it is too common for people to see what they will read when they read. I assume that if we are elected to the National Assembly, we understand what we are talking about or are silent. But I read very purposefully what the Anti-Corruption Commission wrote in order not to get anything out of my head, that I misunderstood. That's why I read it again so we can get along. The Anti-Corruption Commission, which has not been heard to present to you how it opposes this law, has written to propose that the law be rejected. I don't know if you remember, it was a surprise when my fellow Member, Comrade Srečko Meho, voted for Minister Zvonk Cernač as an opposition member. Since the minister could describe what the reduction of administrative barriers meant, he could also describe what it meant to increase efficiency. Very much in his speech – I believe he was not deceiving – he described the difference between what quick decision-making means, what clear decision-making means and what it means to protect natural resources. The problem with these laws, including this, is that you no longer protect the natural resource. I would even understand, honourable Members, if we could write somewhere like this: In a variety of areas, so that life goes on so that the farm can spread – and don't forget! Your proposal didn't contain farms half a year ago. On the committee responsible for agriculture, forestry, nutrition and the environment, two Members, Mr Roman Žveglič and Dejan Židan, fought that this proposal for the extension of farms under this law came into this law at all. However, protecting a natural resource means that if you lose a natural resource because of another interest, you have to establish it somewhere else. That's not what you're doing. You can smile at me, you can laugh at me, and I'll tell you something else: European countries that have significantly more quality agricultural land per capita because they understand what food security is – the average of the European Union at this time is over 2,000 square metres per capita, in Slovenia 866 – are going into the system of zero agricultural land consumption. This means that if, due to economic, public or any other interest, the agricultural land is to be lost, it will then be re-established at another location. Even what is interesting, the visit to the OECD — these are terrible neoliberals, very wrong, I feel that they want us, us and similar countries to make modern - day slaves — to say the same. Unfortunately, not the natural resources to divide into a country, a country, a country, but a region or even a continent, have been said that our approach, which you have so pleased to break down, is the approach of zero agricultural land use through compensation, one of the rare bright exceptions in the field of environmental protection in Slovenia. Do you know the difficult situation in the field of environmental protection? Those who accompany the meetings of the committee responsible for the environment, whatever we touch, are observed — what? Note that it is not the last term or the last two terms: if we say the last 21 years, it is probably too short a period: we simply did not know how to protect natural resources! Anything we touch: whether it works or loses, or whether we have already begun to pay the penalty to the European Union. Instead, respected colleagues and colleagues, in order to fight constructively together, use arguments and not lies in the National Assembly and the protection of natural resources, have improved, with many laws coming from your hands, these natural resources are further despised.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I think I need to take this. I respect myself so much, I'm not going to agree to waste any lies. So, fellow Jew, I can also warn you to use this term where you're sure someone's lying. I also quoted a piece from the report of the Kosovo Commission. But I also stopped by because of what was said and said earlier. The opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana was cited and both positions of the Association of Municipalities and the Community of Municipalities which support this change should also be cited. So the congregations aren't against it. Earlier, there had also been a lot of talk about the possibility of additional burdens. I'll give it one more time. These are not new facilities that do not already have a single starting point in space, in existing legislation, in the existing spatial plan. It can't just come out again. We must not deceive those who listen to this. Earlier, colleague Misic had talked about some of the calls to the press to monitor this. I hope he listens when he sits on the same committee where I chair, and he is the Vice-President, where the Minister has already reported specific cases at the last meeting, and he also knows that the Committee's decision to publish and report on this for half a year. I hope he didn't overhear it, but he's sitting on the same board. This is not the case with any deceiving, and the Minister has also presented a report at this reading of this Act on how many of these applications have been made, how positive they have been, how negative they have been, and how anyone can go to their website and what are the specific cases where this exception has been applied in Article 29. So that we don't keep coming back all the time that this is such a simple process, and that's what ad hoc is going to do. This article discusses that the congregation can, in accordance with a certain procedure that is prescribed, and I hope once again that we will not fully evaluate this local government of ours and degrade all these people who decide something at the local level. You keep saying it's gonna be someone who's going to do it all the time. I can't imagine that the municipal councils are as minor a matter as you would like to present them. It is not that the mayor decides on something if you want to show it, it is that the municipal council, by procedure, must arrive at this justification and can send a reasoned request to the Ministry for decision. There are two ministries which assess whether this is acceptable or not, including from the point of view of existing legislation. Only if this is accepted as an exception by both ministries, and they also have to justify this in some way – so I also said earlier that the problem is precisely in those protected areas to which you refer. These areas are protected by a partial number which can represent an extremely large area. The intervention that someone would like is minor compared to that and in the part where this intervention takes place, it does not affect this protected area in any way. The profession can also justify that and say it, but it happens through the process, it's not automatic. That's what it says! This is what it says in this law and in the previous novel, this novel only adds to the congregations that have already adopted spatial plans. After the same procedure, they must be able to justify why such enlargement would be appropriate – first in the municipal world through their professional services, which means that the public knows that public meetings of municipal councils are also public, then through the procedure of both ministries. There's no automatism. It is not without justification that this is appropriate. I'd really like to talk about what's actually in this marriage. The whole public, not just us Members, can see on the website which examples of these exceptions through the 29th Article are approved. Every six months, the Ministry was obliged to report these reports. Speaking of zero readiness – I apologize, I do not know the exact term — on agricultural land. We're kind of tying this to this change. This change means sand in the eyes as far as agricultural land is concerned. We all have to admit that in the last period we have been building certain infrastructures that have been interfering with the best agricultural land – if we are talking only about motorways. It is clear that we have had a trend in recent years in the extremely high visas of neighbouring countries. Not now to say that we're the dumbest or the ones who didn't know how to protect this area. We have simply built some infrastructure things that other countries have built long before they have established certain criteria of nullity and so on. And when they came to the stage to monitor this in terms of conservation of agricultural land – of course, they have better indices! But that's not why it's not you or me. The highway construction programme was carried out and reached out to a large number of agricultural land. That's why we have this balance sheet so devalued. However, when we include indus con extensions and enlargements with large cities, this balance sheet clearly shows us as very negative the visas of comparable European countries. But because of this marriage that's trying to put very small things into this place, we're not going to ruin these balance sheets. Don't fool yourself like that! I agree, however, that this is a problem and that it must be solved in some way, but on the other hand we also have a huge area that is growing, and we do not have any concrete programme to stop this thing. However, I propose that when you talk about specific matters, you also listen to what we have as an argument that this solution should be adopted. Once again: this is not about some act of law, but it is about putting in a certain exception, which is verified and also controlled through mechanisms that are enshrined in the law and do not allow ad hoc to play some legislation. That is why I do not agree with this issue, which the Commission points out in good faith, and I respect it, but also points out through all the explanations that it is necessary to consider these matters carefully – there is no automaticism in terms of corruption. The current legislation has also allowed for far-reaching corruption, particularly for those who have had sufficient resources to do so. Once again: I do not agree that all municipal councils and all local communities are characterized as potential offenders and corrupt authorities. That's not working! This way, we better end local self-government. They are the ones who are proposing the first proposal that something start to happen in space at all. I hope that these people within the space are equally elected, and once again I stress that this is not the mayor, it is the municipal council that is proposing a change. In order to come up with a proposal for a change, someone has to prepare it professionally, professionally justify it, even this is a profession, it is not just an architectural, engineering chamber in an institution. There is also a profession on the ground that deals with these things and that prepares a proposal. I therefore propose that you support certain amendments and this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mag. It's a Jew, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't mention you anywhere when I was talking about a lie. If I did not understand enough, I can say in public: I did not mention you, I did not mean you, but your associate, who sits in the back row, Mr Patricia Schulin. I wasn't talking about the call for demonstrations. I would very much like this, Mrs Patricia, to show me where I or any of my colleagues have been talking about this. While calling and understanding frustrated people who observe what is happening in this country, there is a terrible and huge difference. Please show me where we can talk about the call, but if you don't have it, I'd like to hear an apology as it is in a civilized society. What I would like to say further to your debate, honourable Member; we actually have problems. We have a problem in the case of someone who is the one who has to prosecute corruption in Slovenia, but unfortunately has too little authority as we all know. If this commission had more of them, it would probably be a little better if it warned us in the law that there was a danger of corruption and suggested: do not accept it. It was not even possible for them, as far as I know, to come to explain this opinion to this committee – at least I think it was, I did not see the reference that they had been invited, even though this usually happened. The problem is that if we really had — or not, that there is no intention — that is, a harsh word — if we really had the firm intention to do everything to make the level of corruption in this country, what some indicators measure, and we kept on reducing, somewhere high, such a letter would not be accepted, because the risk of corruption is too high, such a letter should be like a shovel of feet. Let us reconsider and make legislation so that our legal order is more transparent and consistent with what experts in this area say. Once again, I would like to propose, honourable Members and Members, to discuss the arguments. Now I have spoken of two names: I hope that you had no sense that I spoke abusively. In fact, I am trying not to speak abusively because I know that there is too much tension in the National Assembly, in this policy and country, but the problem is that you have not responded to any of these arguments, honourable Members and Members. You did not answer my argument that a committee was convened against a small constitution. You have not responded to the arguments clearly written by the anti-corruption commission, and you will eventually adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u157	Mr. Jew, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u159	Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. What the president of the Infrastructure Committee has said, I would like to explain in a little more detail how this is to be done in the municipalities. Let me say that it is, perhaps for the fifth time, that this is an extension in those areas where there is already an activity and it is only an extension, in areas where this expansion will lead to some rounded whole. The initiative for such an extension is given by an individual. The initiative goes to the congregation, the congregation checks whether this is possible or not, also takes into account all the protection conditions, all the co-consentors, probably the one who prepares the spatial acts will do so in the congregation, says the expert. This goes to a meeting of the municipal council, the municipal council confirms this if it confirms it, and it also risks the municipal council, whether it will later be covered by a municipal spatial plan or not. The true municipal council must avoid and answer the profession, the municipal administration is responsible if the municipal council confirms it – I think there has also been a discussion of underestimation of municipal councilors. I can tell you that in a municipality where I have been a mayor for 13 years, that municipal councillors, elected by the majority system, are greater experts and more capable of the field of work they carry out than perhaps three quarters of us Members in this Parliament for the work we are doing. And do not underestimate local self-government! If confirmed, it goes to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry approves it. As Mr. Gaspar said, we are now covering the shampari of the municipal administration or the congregation, that it was not predicted earlier – this is not how it works! When he said we weren't experts in this area, I think if he wasn't an expert, he was just talking too much. Because for this area we have as much time as we had yesterday for lame things here, we talked for 16 hours or less. In this area, such a debate may take place. I'm not afraid to discuss these matters. When I listened to Mr Weber, I think it's a shame for some of us who come from local self-government to talk. We'd think it came from a bunch of ornithologists, but not from some kind of mayor saying things like that. We must be aware that if we and everyone want to have a budget to be filled, that this does not come from bird singing, but that we have to raise the economy and that money will be raised there, or that the economy will contribute that all the country's formalisms can work, because there are too many of them – as you, Mr Židan, have said that the country's formalities have been violated. We have so many formalisms that we are 59th in the preparation of spatial legislation. That's what they say. We belong to those banana republics. Everything we have in this area is from the time of Mary Teresa. Everything we've been doing is neither valid nor very little. I could prove that. In the municipality where I was mayor, we adopted the OPN in 2009. We also have initiatives for those we are saving today. However, we accepted the UNJO contrary to the then ministry because it was still possible because the biggest problem in the adoption of the UNJO was at the Ministry of Agriculture. They waited year after year for the preparers or congregations. This was the main reason that so far only a few more than 40 municipalities had accepted the UNO, which should be adopted by the end of 2009. In this way, we are now dealing with the pressures of individuals. In the municipality there are the most initiatives for expanding farms, for the construction of silos, for additional activities on the farm. If the UNO did not accept this in 2009, they would not open new primary schools and kindergartens on Friday because they could not be built. And probably never again. In my village, there would not be a farmer working three-quarters of agricultural land in the village, because others leave farming, building barns for 70, 80 cows of 1000 square feet. I'm sure he'll run out of building surfaces to build silos because he's going into increased production. Mr Zwiglič said that farmers must prepare for the abolition of milk quotas in order to increase production. What if they don't have their own land? Not yours, but building land! I think it is right if we adopted this law in July for those congregations that have not yet adopted the UN, that it is right that we should now accept it for the congregations that have adopted the UNOP three years ago. Here, however, is the opposition from all sides only due to interference with agricultural land. The compensation granted in the previous term to your mandate also caused enormous damage to that law, including economic damage, as the compensation was charged from a complete parcel. For one entrepreneur, the compensation was almost as much as the municipal contribution to construction. This was also EUR 20 per square metre. Those who wanted to build housing had to go to the plot to avoid a measured contribution from the whole plot had to make two parcels, so that only the smaller one where the building stood had to be awarded this compensation. That's, thank God, fixed. In some municipalities, it also cost more than 100 projects in administrative units for this very compensation. It was overprotective. We are also waiting for a regulation on permanently protected agricultural land which will have to be installed in the UNO. 18 months is the time for this Regulation to be adopted and that municipality which will now be working with the UNSC must be installed in the UNOP by permanently protected agricultural land. How? Who's that profession? Who's going to give the data? Will the congregation do so on its own? The law has been adopted, the matter must be processed. Some people don't care just to keep something safe! And if there's any harm done! That's why we came so far. The Ministry of Agriculture is not even in the previous mandate – I hope now – to tackle the biggest problem, which is the cultivation of agricultural land. There have been a significant number of them and we have more of them than ever before, even now in this crisis, when the connection or the desire to build is practically minimal. So don't get carried away here because people really have had enough of us. If you have read any reflections on our debate yesterday and on what is happening in parliaments, you will soon understand and I will begin to think as my colleague Misic did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u161	Mag. It's a Jew, it's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u162	I'm afraid my well-respected colleague misunderstood me. We both know, dear colleague, that formalism in Slovenia is too much. We both know that they need to be reduced as much as possible in order to become comparable either to Austria or to Germany or to Finland. The solution in this way that we are going to break the Constitution a little, we are going to break one formalism, we are going to break another little, but the path is to anarchy and it's not going to hold up effectively. Perhaps, however, my dear fellow, we would also look into it a little bit and find out that the biggest backlogs were made by the Ministry of Environment and Space. If we checked this, we would also find that, at the end of my term of office at the agricultural ministry, there was only two more months to answer – which is still too much. But terrible progress has been made! As far as the growth is concerned, the growth is now significantly less than it was three or five years ago, because at least in the interim the agricultural production, thank God, has become profitable again. That's the reason. Unfortunately, the legal acts do not help anything. The removal of growth is a costly process, it requires funds, it costs money. This money, which was finally allocated to agriculture for the eradication of growth, was a purposeful compensation, and it was you who were very happy to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Gomboc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I also support the amendment of this law, especially for the sake of practicality, and also because I have been persuaded by the amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups, because – as the predecessors have already mentioned – there may be various violations or abuses. See, the second indent of paragraph 1 of Article 1 says: "Extension of the area of building land does not significantly affect the protection, protected, degraded, threatened and other areas where a specific legal regime is established on the basis of the rules, except in cases where the envisaged interventions are not contrary to those arrangements." As far as practical cases are concerned, I can say that we have in the Koroška case an entrepreneur who has been offered or obtained additional business. In order for him to carry out his business, he also needs to make a contribution to his production hall, which will allow him to employ 30 new people. And just because he can't get a building permit on that side of the hall, it's disabled. We also have examples of young farmers who want to expand their agricultural activities so that they can take part in tourism on their farm, and they are also allowed to do so. For example, a farm where they decided to farm at home to do farming, which would make them want to expand the barns in order to increase the herd, is precisely because it is on that part of the area that is quite close to the existing barn, a part that is not wally. It seems to me that this amendment to the article will deal with quite a number of such cases and may also remove some bureaucratic obstacles, which we all stress are too many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. And Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen! The one for whom yesterday's debate was lame doesn't understand the point. Yesterday we offered at least 20 important topics that we could discuss, and you did not accept any. You keep saying, "Don't move." Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not kidding. I mean what I'm saying. Don't tell me to cheat, if I don't agree with you, I have that right. That is why I think it would be right to delete this article because it would prevent – not systemic corruption – the rule of law from working anymore. We have adopted a spatial plan with all the documentation, with the whole procedure that has been prescribed in this country! Now this procedure is no longer in force because we have adopted a law whereby we have annulled the procedure and the parcels outside the areas that we have adopted in the spatial plan can spread beyond this procedure. If we are talking about administrative obstacles; excuse me, administrative obstacles are not in municipal councils, administrative obstacles are not in municipalities – they can also – administrative obstacles are in the procedures of ministries, with officials. Change that! Not that you are amending the law to follow the same procedure as before, but that the same municipal official who did not allow the land to be distributed by a spatial act will now allow this expansion. You don't really understand that you can't do that! Yeah, who else? Please, I've been listening, I've been nodding, and you've been thinking a lot. The problem is that with this procedure, then, one more thing is going on. [[...]] None of us, the Social Democrats, spoke of distrust for the municipal councils. Nobody! We talked, I'm talking about not trusting those who have so far allowed something to be done or not allowed to be built. With all those, I agree that the congregational councils have done absolutely well in their conscience, very well, and as well. As a result, spatial acts were also adopted. And don't talk about how long someone was mayor, because I can tell you for sure; but I can also tell you how we adopted spatial acts and what happened at the time. It doesn't even have to be that far back, and I never thought that I could create a policy here in the National Assembly alone — but not this way! You know, it's very easy for someone to say that next to the farm we're going to expand the agricultural area, that we're going to spread the crafts around the farm, which is, of course, right. Why didn't we do it in the spatial plan? Because in the debate we have found that this agricultural activity with a composteral or as it were called, biogas, it can do something that should not be done in this room, because it could do something in this space that it should not do. Therefore, it is not right to change quickly what we have been doing for years — simplifying procedures. You know, when Arso doesn't allow construction in a 15-meter band 10 centimeters, 30 centimeters, 5 centimeters, you can't go to Arso — that's an administrative obstacle! When we wait for Arso for two, three, four, five years – these are administrative obstacles! What we are doing now is to adopt laws that can be relatively simple and as you said, we also quickly turn from agricultural land to backland, and this is not due to the process itself. We have accepted the procedure, we have told those who have worked hard and accepted spatial plans that they are stupid, because they can be very simple Of course I agree that the conclusion of the municipal world must be. [[...]] The spatial plan shall be adopted in accordance with specific legislation, in accordance with the principles under which the spatial plan is adopted. But this is not what we now propose with this law. That's what we're trying to say. It's going to change a lot. In this case, I think it's just the rule of law, nothing else. And that's what we're talking about. With such a change, we relatively quickly come to the point that in every area, if it is appropriate, we can make a difference; that is right or wrong. Law enforcement says we can do this or we can't do it. It's not right. When the anti-corruption commission says something's wrong, then we can't accept it, we can't say it's their opinion. That is why I would say so; do we know, Mr Secretary of State, how many spindle zones do we have? Or we know how many zones we have that are empty and unoccupied, and we're opening up new zones. Right — where something needs to be extended. I can tell you that there are at least five spindle zones in our wider area that are empty, there is no one who can get there, there are no investors, there is nothing. We're opening new, new, new, because we say we need new, new, new. And I'm worried about what someone said, and that's what worries me: craftsmanship and rural tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is possible with this law, then we can move trade and tourism to the countryside. If we can do this with this law, then it's not right. It's not okay. For this reason, please, you do not accept the law in position, the law is adopted by the National Assembly, and I am also involved in this, even if I am against it. So, please, don’t talk about any misdirection and let’s just talk about it — and we’ve been talking about it for a while! One more thing, Mrs Schulin said that the Social Democrats are calling for No. [[...]] We never called, we never called! But Janez Janša called. It was John Janša who urged them to come to Parliament. And he was the one. And don't talk about somebody else doing it. It's not right to do that. That is why I am protesting this way because I think that the protests are justified if we listen to them, but they would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u167	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you for saying that again. First of all, if I misinterpreted my fellow Jew before, I apologize. He asked me about some inconsistencies with regard to the meeting. That's all I would have warned him about was that there was a regular meeting for December 6th at the time. In the meantime, the College of the National Assembly adopted a timetable for the adoption of the budget and the deadline had to be postponed. I apologize for that, too, if that's an issue. However, other committees made a similar delay. I don't think we broke that little constitution that way. I know your committee has not met, this is your legitimate right, but we have convened a meeting and none of the Members have felt deprived because the materials have been distributed in time and I think they have all had the opportunity to get to know the subject. As far as the views we read are concerned, the views of the architectural and engineering chambers are repeated. The same was true of the first novel, novel B, of the Spatial Planning Act, which was adopted in June. Even then there was talk about how this law would destabilize, degrade all the procedures so far, and cause some difficulty in this spatial planning. So once again, from all the congregations that had the opportunity to pass this law, we talked about congregations that had not yet adopted spatial plans, which is most of them, we all know, 47 proposals have come up. Of these, only 22 were approved, 11 were rejected, and others are still in the rescue. It is said that this is not a matter of some serious automation and of some kind of case, and that everyone would take advantage of this in terms of some denial of existing legislation and existing spatial plans. The Commission also had the same comments as the Chamber and other professional institutions to prevent corruption in the first law and in the present law. That's the same thing. But you can find out for yourself – and I said that the data is on the website – that this is not happening. Everyone has a chance to check it out and see for themselves. Earlier, there was also a talk about this maintenance of agricultural areas and growth. It should be borne in mind that this is probably decreasing for some other reason, such as the economic crisis, fuel prices and the like. A lot of our people use biomass back as an energy source, and that's good, at least from this point of view, to reduce growth. This should probably be encouraged in some other way. I don't think I'm threatening anyone, either, and I'm asking them to back it up. I'm making arguments, just like you. And, colleague Meh, we all have the right to give our opinion, and you create your own picture. That way, I'm not afraid of your squirming as we discuss. Each decision will be taken on the basis of the arguments put forward. Once again, I would like to point out that this law does not deny existing spatial legislation. It doesn't affect the ad hoc subject. In any event, the local community should later include these areas proposed for enlargement in spatial plans. Most of the time these areas are already in some pre-trial procedure, waiting for certain consents, decisions of one or the other ministry, one or the other institutions. As in the case that the plan has not yet been adopted, as in the case of some enlargements. And once again, I'm going to illustrate an example of where the biggest problem we're following in space is. I also come from an area that has a lot of protective regimes, and we have no problem with that. The problem is when the safeguard regime has been adopted on the basis of some arguments and is linked to a partial number which may be extremely large and which means in some area of protection that is not meaningful at the microlocation. Here, I hope you'll agree with me. In this case, we can look at the matter through this micro-case through this article. At that time, the same authority which speaks of protection and who ensures that this parcel is fully protected must also see whether this piece of parcel constitutes a threat to this protection regime. We are not just talking about water regimes, we are talking about various habitat protections, we are talking about everything that is going on in this spatial planning. Here we also have the opportunity of this legislator, the co-legislator, to take a constructive approach to solving one problem. Now he doesn't have a chance. He can simply write on the basis of the current basis he has, only negatively because the regime is there. Here we give him the possibility that with a specific case, after home, entertainment and looking for a solution in the direction or positive or negative, he must in both cases justify this. He doesn't have to do that until now. You know, and you've probably met up with cases like this in your long career. I know quite a few of them, but it's not like we're building this story right now. But this is actually a problem in space. We're sort of solving this somehow. And once again: it is not new objects, it is not a new activity, the activity must be existing and in a new, expanded part linked to that activity that has already taken place there. That can't change. It's clearly in the articles. The security guard at the local level, at the ministerial level, at the level of all the services involved in this process is large. The main safeguard is that this is eventually made public. Someone has to stay behind for this decision, even in the end, or we will be dealing with it in Parliament either through an investigative commission or through another body. It is precisely the fact that, on the basis of the previous novel, it is not as large a case as it was in some way announced that everyone will take advantage of it. Not everyone can, just where there is a valid reason for someone to use this article for their own salvation. That is why I think it is right that this solution should also be added in cases where the UNJP is adopted. It is important to know that some adopted them in 2008, 2009 and have been for quite some time. We are all committed to channeling certain European funds into this space; many have received a concrete project, would like to expand production or some activity, put a proposal into spatial plans to expand it, the environment and the local community and the municipal council support it, but through the process it may take two, three, four years, such as practice now, and such projects should also be allowed a reduced procedure until we adopt new spatial legislation. That is why once again: I hope that in some way I have convinced one of you to support this law because it does not allow for some systemic corruption, as the Commission has stated. It allows exceptions and exceptions to be allowed in some way, but these exceptions are, of course, strictly monitored and sanctioned. Now that we have the system, when we have the whole thing completely out of tune, you all agree, but there are anomalies, and no one can stop them. In this case, we have a guaranteed and supervisory function and a procedure allowing this exception and, on the other hand, we also have all these exceptions mandatoryly published on the website. I think that this is a lot of arguments for supporting the issue and thus allowing for some rapid development in certain cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you. And Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I didn't know whether to answer or not, but there were some things that I wanted to say that I wanted to say a little bit about my vision. We have recently made a change to this spatial planning law, as has been said, and since then a number of initiatives have taken place on this topic. It was precisely the intention of some things to be encouraged; those things that we have already said several times that we encounter as a problem when we walk in the field, when we visit different entrepreneurs, craftsmen who tell us what the problem is. They started with some production, five employees, then they get a new job, they hire ten people, and they expand a little bit, and so on, and then they run into the edge of the agricultural land, and then there's a problem. What some of you have mentioned is an empty rotational zone. Many times this is true, but you cannot expect one entrepreneur to go into the craftsmanship zone to buy a new land, but if it already has a hall that many and so many meters in it. He will always be in a dilemma, whether then, where the owner and land and the economic premises or hall or whatever he has, he will go now for some higher price to buy it into the craftsmanship zone, so that the mayor will fill his trade zone. Many times the problem is that in the trade zone the land is then expensive and everyone will consider whether it is worth it or whether it is better for them to try to expand it at home and where it has it. Therefore, it is likely that there must be one true relationship between one and the other. What we have heard, as we say, several times from the people we visit, was that they could not expand production by having orders to have a job so that we could work and hire new people. Mr Gaspar Mišič tells us every day, give us something already to do for the economy, to start an economy, that it will work If we block such things or thus restrict them, it is clear that we cannot make an economic start. [[...]] If we tell them we won't suit them, I won't listen to them understand their problem and help them solve it. They should be able to work with five employees and produce a year, I don't know, for a million instead of five million. That's why I already supported the law in the first phase of the amendment. It has now proved to be an obstacle to some congregations, so we have yet another amendment to this bill. I support both the law and this amendment, which has been tabled, which also speaks of adding services and crafts, and I am confident that this way we will again allow some to expand production, work more, employ more people and that we will actually do something for the economy. It is obvious that the spatial planners in the congregation did not know what they were doing but did not put this into the original law. Look, we know this takes ten years or more. It takes some year, two or three to prepare for the congregation before we even come to the proposal. In the meantime, we are undergoing major changes. If I speak only for the area I come from, the surroundings of Ljubljana; in the tens, the population tripled, the needs are completely different, things must go on with time, but not that we have been adopting a spatial plan for ten years, twelve years now, but – by the way – it is a little old because we prepared it 15 years ago, 12 years ago. We do have it today, but in the middle of it, like, a whole bunch of things have happened. As it is said, I therefore support the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u171	We concluded the debate, including the Government, the Secretary of State. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly highlight some of the constructive facts about these amendments, because I do not think that this was a clear and precise understanding of what this is trying to achieve. Once again, I must make it very clear that this is an enlargement in exceptional cases, and only with existing activities. In a number of discussions, it was heard about the intention of new interventions in business zones or by moving existing activities to the agricultural area. It can't be! It can't be! Only for exceptional cases of existing activity and, of course, in accordance with all existing spatial legislation in force. Cases are not excluded. We know very well what the municipal spatial plan is and what this amendment brings to this law. Even in practice at this time, because this matter is, I can say, also showed some practical examples during this half-year, when this law was in force. During this time, 26 municipalities submitted an application, a total of 60 proposals, and 32 proposals were approved. If we look at further data on surfaces: 28 square meters, 175 square meters, 950 square meters, 340 square meters, 1621 square meters and so on. We're talking about areas that are negligible. This is where the congregation doesn't use this stuff. In my opinion or in the belief of our Ministry of Professional Affairs, we anticipate that these applications will be increasingly reduced and that those most pressing matters will be the most pressing problems faced by craftsmen, entrepreneurs, economic operators and also the agricultural economies, which will be resolved very soon. Of course, it always does, I would say in every case, but whatever the matter is, there may be concerns, doubts, which, of course, also mentions the report of the anti-corruption commission. However, in the same process there are so many guards and so many procedures that I would say it is extremely limited. This is a two-step inspection both at the level of the municipality and at the level of both ministries. I must say that the congregations here are extremely cautious, most of the congregations turn to our ministry for suggestions, recommendations, and somehow with a very high degree of caution they enter before they only play a role to increase. Finally, I would like to mention that a building permit must also be obtained prior to the exercise or intervention of the premises. Certain procedural fuses are also prescribed for the building permit in accordance with other legislation, regulations and so on. This is also how all this procedure needs to be taken into account. I would say that these concerns are always possible, but perhaps also views – without taking into account the fact that we are all corrupt in Slovenia, but I say that there are also certain authorities that should ensure that corruption is prevented. Of course, also by the fact that the legislation itself makes it possible to do so as little as possible. It is thus proposed that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u173	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u174	So if a building permit is needed, how can we obtain it? Mr Secretary of State said we must have a building permit before then. And secondly, I've never talked about it being corrupt. No, that's not what I'm talking about. The others you spoke to!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you. We've closed the debate on the amendment. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the meeting which we continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Nicely greeted.
