ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! For the dragon year that began yesterday, and also for the use of the ad religion, as the old Romans said, one sharpener that keeps your pencils sharp. So ad faith, use the toast. We will start the third Tuesday session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 36 (5) of the Security Authorities Act, the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu provides the Riigikogu at least once a year with an overview of the activities of the Committee, the supervision of security authorities and surveillance authorities. Here it is, though not with the sharpest pencil.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U3	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry concerns offences referred to in the internal audit of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In the internal audit of the Ministry of Social Affairs, three NGOs created by the Ministry of Social Affairs and an official of the Ministry of Justice are examined by the Ministry of Social Affairs, who received funding from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The aim of this NGO is to develop a custody system for children who have been exposed to human trafficking. This NGO received a grant of 100000 kroons. Until now, the Ministry has worked with several other civil society organisations dealing with the same subject, but they did not receive support. The current Anti-Corruption Act states that an official is prohibited from dealing with a non-profit organisation of which he is a member, as well as a non-profit organisation whose activities he controls. We have a number of questions for the Minister of Social Affairs in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. I have also adopted an overview of the activities of the committee, which the Board of the Riigikogu takes note of. Now let's get to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 25 January: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 85 members of the public are registered as present, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U6	We are going to address the items on today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft law amending the law on collective agreement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I ask for a presentation of the Chair's member of the Legal Affairs Committee, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U7	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 16 January, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed draft law 153, draft law amending the law on collective agreements. In addition to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Seili Suder, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Marilis Proos, Chief Specialist of the Department for the Development of Working Life, took part in this meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The collective agreement law is amended as follows: First, Paragraph 11 (5) is amended and worded as follows: 'According to the term of the collective agreement, a collective agreement shall be deemed to have become permanent if neither party to the collective agreement informs the other party in writing that it does not wish to renew the agreement at least two months before the expiry of the term of the collective agreement. If the collective agreement becomes permanent, the parties are obliged to comply with the terms of the collective agreement until the conclusion of the new collective agreement or the termination of the collective agreement. Unlimited collective agreements may be terminated by either Party by giving notice to the other Party for at least three months, unless otherwise provided for in the collective agreement. From the moment the notice of termination of the collective agreement is made, the obligation to maintain a working peace arising from the collective agreement shall cease. ' Secondly, the text of § 17 to date is considered to be paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 is supplemented by the following wording: 'The provisions of Paragraph 11 (5) of this Act shall also apply to collective agreements concluded before 1 March 2012. ' Paragraph 2 of the Bill reads as follows: "This Act enters into force on 1 March 2012. ' I'm going to explain this a little bit. The current collective agreement law is based on the principle that, while a collective agreement is concluded for a limited period of time, the parties to the agreement retain the obligation to continue to comply with the concluded collective agreement. The obligation to continue the completed collective agreement will last until the conclusion of the new collective agreement. If a new agreement fails, such a solution will lead to the permanent continuation of the old agreement. There is currently no regulation in the collective agreement law which would allow the end of the current collective agreement to cease to be applied. This situation is contrary to the Constitution and has also been brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice. The purpose of the proposal is to bring the regulation of the collective agreement law into line with the Constitution and to lay down the rules of procedure under which the parties to the collective agreement which have expired as a result of the expiry of the deadline can cancel and terminate the collective agreement. The Chancellor of Justice has analysed the compatibility with the Constitution of Article 11 (5) of the Collective Contract Act and has concluded that this regulation is contrary to several fundamental rights deriving from the Constitution, in particular the principles of freedom to conduct a business and freedom of contract. The Chancellor of Justice has therefore drawn the attention of the Minister of Social Affairs, as the minister responsible for this area, to the need to take steps to amend the law on collective agreements and to bring it into line with the Constitution. In order to bring the regulation into line with the Constitution, it should be amended in such a way as to ensure that the parties to the collective agreement have the option of exempting themselves from being bound by the collective agreement after the expiry of the period of validity initially agreed upon. The amendment of § 11 (5) of the Collective Agreement Act is the fulfilment of the constitutional obligation of the Riigikogu, as the Riigikogu must ensure that the laws comply with the Constitution. In order to ensure compliance with the Constitution of the Collective Contract Act, it is not necessary to repeal § 11 (5) of the Collective Contract Act. In order to ensure compliance with the Constitution, if the current principle of the continuation of the collective agreement after the expiry of the original agreement is maintained, it is sufficient that, after the expiry of the initial period of validity of the collective agreement, both parties are given the opportunity to terminate the agreement by giving notice to the other party within the time limit laid down by law. However, there are no legal alternatives to ensuring consistency with the Constitution. The state must not accept a situation in which, over a longer period of time, there is apparently a provision which is contrary to the Constitution which restricts the fundamental rights of persons, including freedom to conduct a business or contract. How would we change the law according to this bill? Collective agreements are still concluded for a limited period. The principle that the collective agreement concluded after the expiry of the term of the collective agreement will continue to apply. The continuation of the collective agreement also means, unlike the current law, the obligation to maintain a contract for the parties to work, i.e. a ban on strike and retention. As long as the parties to an employment relationship are interested in maintaining a working peace, the collective agreement will therefore remain in force and the parties will have to comply with its conditions. The new principle is that either party may terminate a collective agreement whose term of validity has expired by notifying the other party of its intention three months in advance. (This is a cancellation of the collective agreement.) The granting of such a deadline is justified in order to give the other party the opportunity to react to the change under way, for example in order to open negotiations on the conclusion of a new agreement. Notification of the wish to terminate the contract ends the obligation to maintain a cease-fire. That means you can start a strike, and so on. The amendment of the law makes the collective agreement more attractive to the parties to the employment relationship as a tool for regulating the collective employment relationship. The amendment of § 11 (5) of the Collective Agreement Act is expected to revive and facilitate the conclusion of collective agreements. The employer may, on the basis of a collective agreement, grant workers greater benefits, confident that they will not remain permanently attached to them, and that upon expiry of the term of validity of the collective agreement it will be possible to waive them if the changed circumstances and the situation of the company no longer allow the benefits to be granted. Collective agreements to be concluded would also become more meaningful and detailed. An employer would not have any reason to refrain from entering into a collective agreement because of the fear that it would be impossible to get rid of it in the future and, in changed circumstances, the obligation to continue the collective agreement could significantly impede the company's activities or its restructuring and thus reduce its competitiveness. After the committee had discussed all these matters, the vote took place in the committee and the decision was taken: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on 24 January, i.e. today (by 7, against 1, 1 abstention), to appoint Valdo Randpere as rapporteur, i.e. I (all in favour), to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the first reading of the draft 153 (by 7, no 2 abstentions) and to propose to the Riigikogu Bureau that the draft 153 amendments be tabled by 16 p.m. (by consensus). I'm ready to answer questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U8	Thank you very much. Questions have already been registered. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There is no indication in the explanatory memorandum of the draft, although the norm requires it. Why is the Committee on Legal Affairs hiding the author of the draft and who has actually drawn up the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U10	That's an interesting question. It is very difficult to answer because there are many authors. But I can light up the back a little bit. This whole process reached me in a documented form in June 2010, when the Chancellor of Justice asked the Ministry of Social Affairs for an explanation and a request for information to report on this section of the collective agreement law. At about the same time, I myself found that before I came to the Riigikogu, I had a different way of working, that this part of the Estonian collective agreement law and also labour law had become obsolete, and I spoke about it with our party's then Minister of Justice, for example. The relatively lengthy development of this matter has been the result, first, of the fact that the Chancellor of Justice reached his position one year later. Last June, he sent a letter to the Minister of Social Affairs. I happen to have it with me here, and somehow I thought someone might be interested in it. I only read a few lines from this letter: 'Dear Mr. Pevkur! I appeal to you regarding problems in section 11 (5) of the Collective Contract Act. I initiated the constitutional review procedure on my own initiative in order to verify the constitutionality of this provision. As a result of the analysis, I consider that § 11 (5) of the collective agreement act is in so far as it lays down the obligation for the parties to the collective agreement to comply with the terms of the collective agreement at the end of the period of validity of the collective agreement until the conclusion of the new collective agreement, with the exception of the obligation to maintain a contract of employment, is contrary to the freedom of contract of the parties to the contract resulting from § 29 (1) of the Constitution, to the freedom to conduct collective bargaining and to conclude a collective agreement pursuant to § 29 (5) and to the freedom to conduct a business arising from § 31. " After that, he describes 15 pages of analysis and what he has done. In principle, it could be said that the initiative came from the Chancellor of Justice, who did a very big job because he did this analysis. The rest of the work has been done by the Committee on Legal Affairs. But there have been many people involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U11	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The previous Riigikogu adopted good legislative practice. The commission was then the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do you think this bill is in line with good legislative practice? On the one hand, it should be said, for example, that the social partners should be involved in the drafting process. On the other hand, like my previous colleague, I have no idea who has finally drawn up this draft. You referred to the Chancellor of Justice and pointed out that the Committee on Legal Affairs had put together this draft, but, as far as I know, the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs have not put together this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U13	Firstly, the question of whether this corresponds to good legislative practice. I have to say, Karel, this is one of the most sensible draft laws that has ever passed since I was a member of the Riigikogu, because there is, in fact, a very clear contradiction in the current law with the Constitution. The current law, you could say, even works against its own goals. In this sense, I believe that this bill that I am presenting here to you is one of the draft laws that the Riigikogu should be dealing with. But I didn't say it was only put together by the Legal Affairs Committee. I said that there are many people involved: officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, officials of the Ministry of Justice, members of the Legal Affairs Committee, Chancellor of Justice. This process has been long. I used to be one of the initiators of the idea myself, but I can't point the finger at the person who's like the father of this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U14	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U15	Thank you. Honourable waitress! By listening to you and not knowing whose statement I have read, I have had a firm conviction that you have not understood the concept of a collective agreement. I have been in contact with employers just as a collective contractor. It seems to me that you are here as an employer's representative, and you certainly want to abolish this paragraph, according to which, for example, the salary conditions set out in the 2012 collective agreement would also apply in 2020. Can it be said that this bill is beneficial for employers, but not for employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U16	It's hard to answer the question when you branded me more or less incompetent at the beginning of the question to answer that question. Well, what can I say? Nothing but that I've read all the union letters they've sent. The argument that they are not involved is wrong in that they have been very involved and have been able to express their views. They will continue to have the opportunity to do so in the course of the amendments. But if you ask this classic rhetorical question of whether it's useful for employers or harmful for employees, I don't think the questioner realized himself that we no longer live at the time when the employees were on one side of the barricade and shot at the employers and vice versa. What does this bill really do? First, if you start looking for a beneficiary, in theory, it can be beneficial for both parties. At present, the situation is that if a collective agreement has been concluded, its conditions may, after some time, appear to be burdensome for workers or employers. But they are not getting out of this collective agreement now, unless both of them agree. I think it is very difficult to find an agreement with which both would agree in exactly the same way one year or two years after its conclusion, because the circumstances are changing, the economic situation is changing, the economy is either rising or falling. Depending on that, you can always find one party who thinks it would be nice if this collective agreement were to apply forever, and the other party who thinks it would be nice if this collective agreement, which was concluded for one or two years, could be terminated after one or two years or after a longer period. I gave this example in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I will bring it to you, because perhaps you will understand better what we are talking about. When I studied at the University Faculty of Law in my time, we were taught such a simple thing that we have a constitution that creates certain rights, opportunities, obligations for people. We also have the possibility of concluding agreements with each other. For example, when we get married, we can make a contract that we will never get a divorce. It is probably a matter close to the heart of both sides at the time of marriage, making an additional agreement that we will never break up. It's a nice extra deal. The only mistake is that this Treaty is contrary to the Constitution, because those who marry have the right to divorce. The same must be true for collective agreements and labour laws: if you conclude a contract, you must be able to give up that agreement. The law on collective agreements has been drafted in such a way that trade unions understand it (which, unfortunately, seems to be understood by the questioner too) that an open-ended agreement is an eternal agreement. That's not the way it's legal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U17	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U18	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I ask: what is the point of a collective agreement that has been concluded as a result of difficult negotiations, if the employer can arbitrarily end it? Does this draft contribute to the principle of legal certainty? Let me ask you another question: are you still aware that a contract that has become unreasonable can still be cancelled under the Law of Obligations Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U19	Honourable questioner! With this question, you have shown, frankly, that you have not quite understood what we are talking about. It is not about the employer's being able to turn down a valid collective agreement at any time with any pretext. The employer or employees may cancel a contract for which the term of validity has expired. If the collective agreement is concluded for one year or two years, these are normal terms for working life in Estonia, then after that time, one of the parties can cancel the contract with three months' notice. I think it's perfectly normal. What's more, the rest of the world thinks it's perfectly normal. What was the second part of the question? Am I aware of the possibilities in the Law of Obligations Act that a contract may also be cancelled under the Law of Obligations Act? This claim is legally incorrect. The Law of Obligations Act provides an opportunity to terminate the contract in exceptional circumstances and more or less in an emergency. There are two possible herds in this question. The first pack is that it is essentially up to the court to assess whether it is an emergency or an emergency. We don't have a precedent, we don't know what the judges will decide at this point. They can freely decide that this situation is not exceptional enough to terminate the agreement and they may not approve it. Plus, there's another more likely pack. As a lawyer, I would vote for it. In fact, according to the current collective agreement law, the collective agreement ends, but the parties are obliged to comply with its terms, but the law of debt does not regulate the possibility of canceling a non-existent agreement. The parties do not have a valid agreement, but they must comply with its conditions. That's probably what nine out of ten lawyers would tell you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U20	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U21	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, What I am saying is that this bill came as a surprise to the representatives of the contractors. This was confirmed by the article of the Chairman of the Trade Union for Seafarers, published yesterday in a daily newspaper. It is no secret that employers' representatives have recalled their representatives from the Council of the Unemployment and Health Insurance Fund. It seems that the introduction of this draft into the Riigikogu is trying to smooth out relations with employers. But my question to you is this: what is the interest of the state, whether it is a cease-fire or as many strikes as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U22	That's another good question, written about the good old spirit of a hundred years ago in the class struggle. I think the right answer to that is as follows. You probably understand that yourself. The current collective agreement law has actually led to no new collective agreements being concluded. Employers are not interested in concluding collective agreements that last forever. I only know one regime where eternal treaties were signed and a thousand-year-old country was spoken. I don't recommend everlasting contracts to you either. Rather, this legislative amendment will make it easier for collective agreements to be concluded. There is nothing more natural than that an employer and an employee negotiate, enter into a collective agreement, but they will only do so if they know that these conditions and this agreement are limited in time and space. When a contract is concluded without a final horizon, no normal person, whether an employer or, in fact, an employee, dares to enter into such a contract relationship. This has been acknowledged and confirmed by trade union representatives in their interlocutors now that this bill exists, even though they have chosen another rhetoric to appear in the newspapers. We also often see in this Chamber that when cameras are activated, reasonable arguments disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U23	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I was surprised at the orientation of the first questions, as if the draft had no author or if it did not know exactly who the author was. I will take the bill and see that both the draft itself and the explanatory memorandum have a very clear name and signature. I mean, he's supposed to be treated as an author. Secondly, I would point out that if the parties enter into a good-willed, good-faith contract for a certain period of time, then it must be assumed that their interest and desire had been to agree on that deadline, after which a new agreement will be concluded. You can't expect what's ever been agreed to to last. Finally, the question: will the amendment proposed in the draft also help workers who will be able to get a real solution in a situation where the employer does not want to renegotiate the collective agreement concluded during the economic crisis and make a new, better agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U25	Good question. I answered that part before. Indeed it is. I cannot honestly say here any reason why one or the other party, employer or employee should feel that he has been harmed. Rather, it is exactly as you described that there are both cases in life, both sides. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has also, by the way, given the signature of this explanatory memorandum, explained on the basis of his long working life how he has concluded collective agreements in different situations, in different economic circumstances, and always felt different about it. Sometimes this contract has been beneficial to the employer, sometimes to the employee, but it will only become clear later. After the times have changed, the circumstances have changed, the economic situation has changed, there is nothing more normal than the fact that the parties to the contract come back together, negotiate and agree or not to agree on the terms of the new collective agreement, but they will not survive in enslaving conditions for one party until the end of their lives. The reality is that the company's only way out of such a contract is to liquidate the company, and the only way out of such a contract is to leave that job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U26	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U27	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, thank you very much for taking the initiative to bring the collective agreement law into line with the Constitution! But I have two specific questions for you about the effects of the bill. Firstly, how do you consider this to affect our economic environment and the business climate? Will it affect this more in a positive or negative situation than we are talking about creating new jobs? Secondly, our friends Social Democrats often set an example for the Scandinavian countries. How has this issue been resolved, for example, in Finland and Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U28	Thank you. I welcome this question. The first question has actually been partially answered, but I can clearly say to our friends Social Democrats, if they have not yet understood it, that it is very likely (I can say it almost firmly) that this legislative change will improve the situation on the Estonian labour market and the Estonian economy. This will certainly encourage the creation of new jobs, which will certainly encourage collective agreements to be concluded. You can make very sad faces on the side of the Socialists in this Chamber, but if you speak face to face and heart to heart with the union leaders, they will now reassure you of one problem: no new collective agreements will be concluded. However, the conclusion of agreements is exactly what trade unions should contribute to, promote and act on. New collective agreements are not concluded because no one wants to enter into some sort of eternal trap. The second question was how the matter has been resolved in Finland and Sweden. In Finland, it is the case that the law on collective agreements allows a collective agreement concluded for an indefinite period to be cancelled at any time at three months' notice, a collective agreement concluded for a period longer than four years is considered to be equivalent to an open-ended agreement if four years have elapsed. Upon expiry of the time limit, the law does not provide for the continuation of the collective agreement. Nor does the Swedish law on collective agreements provide for the continuation of the conditions of the collective agreement by the lag om medbestämmande i arbetslivet. The same logic is actually seen in the vast majority of European Union countries. I repeat: there is no tradition of eternal treaty in today's legal space. Estonia is very exceptional in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U29	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! Contrary to your constant repetition, as if there were some class anger drivers, I would like to confirm that the aim of the sots is normal working relationships between employers and employees. Hence our great interest in this subject. This is certainly a surprise for you, but there are also many entrepreneurs among the members of the Social Democratic Party, and I too have had the opportunity to do a different job before becoming a member of the Riigikogu. Consequently, I ask: do employers' representatives, as you know, support this draft unambiguously or what their opinion is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U31	Thank you. I welcome both your little tip or hint and the question of employers' position. I happen to have with me the employer's opinion on this bill, the feedback they gave. The papers are starting to get a little messy, but I'm about to find it. It wasn't a very long letter, I can read it to you. Here it comes. Still won't. But the position of employers was that they support this bill. They considered that, irrespective of the expiry of the collective agreement, the obligation to maintain a working peace should continue to apply at a time when the parties to the concluded collective agreement are negotiating a new collective agreement. It was their only objection. This objection, to be honest, if it were to take the form of an amendment until 7 February, could be considered quite seriously. There's a little legal problem. It is necessary to regulate very precisely when to consider the collective agreement negotiations to have begun and when to consider them to have ended. However, if this definition exists, it can be considered that, at a time when a new collective agreement is being negotiated, the mutual obligation to work peace is maintained. This was the only addition or complaint from employers to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U32	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It has been good practice for more than ten years that draft laws on employment relations will be discussed with the social partners before the draft is submitted to the Riigikogu. Where were we so busy this time that we didn't follow this good practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U34	First of all, I would not say that we are very busy because, as I said, the Chancellor of Justice has been working on this for two years. Employers, employees and the Ministry of Social Affairs have been aware of this. In addition, already in December, our intention to put this bill into practice was announced. Since then, both employers' and trade union representatives have been contacted and asked for feedback and opinions. They have had every opportunity to give them and enough time. There is still time until 7 February to propose amendments to the draft law. I can't imagine the form in which this dialogue could still be held. All the more so as we have also agreed in the Committee on Legal Affairs that we will invite the parties between the two readings to the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and have every opportunity to influence it by proposing amendments to the draft law. The current coalition is not such a coalition that throws good ideas into the corner simply because they come from trade union representatives or social democrats. If there are constructive proposals, we will certainly take them into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U35	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the explanatory memorandum of the draft, a few lines have been written about the effects. But my question concerns how this bill affects individual employment relationships. As far as I know, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also drawn attention to this. Do you think that the draft does not affect individual employment relationships, or do you not consider it important in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U37	Thank you. That's a good question. It should normally be the case that individual employment contracts contain important provisions governing employment relationships, such as remuneration. If they don't, it'd be a little surprising. In that case, there is a call for everyone, both employers and employees, to clean this up. The collective agreement should be in addition to the existing employment contract and the expiry of the collective agreement should not in any way affect the existence of an individual employment relationship. All the more so as, as has been said, the collective agreement is supposed to be concluded for a year or two today. If there are such problems, I would recommend that employers and employees review these matters very quickly and correct them, because the contract of employment between the employee and the employer must, in any case, remain. That has also been the point of the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U38	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U39	...or there have been other reasons, it has been possible. My question is...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U40	... do you consider this state's behaviour to be correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll start by saying that we've learned the same specialty at the same university, but at a slightly different time. I am saddened by the postponement of all the provisions that are at all cost to the staff member. Let's look at the Employment Contracts Act. The entry into force of the provisions favourable to the employee was postponed until 2013, the provisions favourable to the employer began to apply in 2009. The unemployment fund's money was now nationalised, which the unemployed would need very much at the moment, etc. When it comes to collective agreements, it is not the case that workers' representatives are ghosts. I know very well that once a collective agreement has been concluded and the employer has asked for the collective agreement to be suspended for some time, because he hasn't had any money...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U42	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U43	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U44	Since the bell rang a little earlier before you could finish your report, I didn't understand the question. Do I consider this state right? Yeah, I think that's right. I didn't understand the question, but just in case, I'm gonna answer you yes, so you don't misinterpret my old lady. But the question could be what I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U45	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Good fellow Commissionman! I drew attention to this in the Commission, Valdo. Our colleague Tõnis has ridiculed this, which is why I will ask it again. I'm not talking about barricade or class fights, I'm talking about the draft regulation of regulation in force on 1 January. § 41 "Introduction' states that the names, positions and contact details of the following persons shall be mentioned in the second sub-section of the introduction: the authors of the draft and the explanatory memorandum, including the representative of the working group, the language editor and the lawyer who verified the legal quality of the draft and the explanatory memorandum. I don't see it in this bill. That is why my question is very simple. I expect you to say no or yes. Does this draft comply with the norm of the drafts introduced from 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U47	Good fellow Commissionman! If you want me to answer yes or no, I'll say yes. I can explain that. I understand you're not waiting for this answer, you'd want me to stick to this formality, that there's no translator or anyone. I'll tell you again: I've dealt with it a lot myself, the Chancellor of Justice has dealt with it, the Ministry of Justice has dealt with it. If you had access to my mailbox, but you didn't have it, you'd see how long I've been dealing with it, how long I've been sending different versions back and forth between several people, and you'd understand my embarrassment as to why I can't answer you. I can do a very simple trick and say, okay, that's Marko Pomerants and that's it. From the beginning, Marko Pomerants has been the father of this thing and the fact that he forgot to write the name of the linguistic helper or adjuster here may be due to the fact that he himself has literary ambitions and he did the job himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U48	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U49	Thank you. This draft law makes the employer's economic interests a very clear primary priority, while the social interests of workers are clearly left behind. I'm going to ask you again a question you didn't answer. Why were the social partners not involved in the debate, as has been a good practice in the past, and as is obvious in other European countries? Why was the Ministry of Social Affairs not working on the drafting of this draft, although it is clearly part of their field of activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U50	You were able to make two false claims in the short term and one question I can't remember. Repeat the question, you asked me a question. You claimed that the social partners were not involved. That's not true. The fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs didn't deal with it isn't true. But in the meantime, you asked me a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U51	Thank you. I, however, chair the hearing. The answer to the question was contained in the reply of the respondent. Let's keep going. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You described the employer's position nicely. At the same time, employees' representative organisations, both the TALO and the Confederation of Trade Unions, have also submitted their views on the draft. Why don't you tell me what the contractor's point of view is, and what do you think these points of view are?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U53	Thank you. Good question. The contractors have sent us their views and they have been long. But I have to say, unfortunately, to the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, which sent its opinion on four pages, that if they have a collective agreement with a lawyer or someone they have used, this collective agreement should be cancelled and better lawyers used, because their objections are full of legal inaccuracies or false claims. However, an interesting objection to this was also asked by you in the Commission that this draft law could conflict with the international treaties, charters and conventions to which Estonia has acceded. The trade union, of course, also referred to such a possible contradiction. I looked into it. I'll just point out one point, but that's a good example. The trade union claims that our draft law is contrary both to § 6 of the Social Charter and to the ILO Convention. The Chancellor of Justice has studied the matter and writes it this way. I quote, this is a really good quote for the press too. Please note what the Chancellor of Justice says about these claims: 'Although ILO labour standards do not regulate the effects of the collective agreement after the expiry of the agreement and there is no relevant practice of the ILO supervisory bodies, the ILO has repeatedly denounced so-called "eternal collective agreements" in its publications. Thus, the ILO Committee on Freedom of Association, whose jurisdiction Estonia is subject to, has taken the view that such agreements entail a serious risk that a trade union with limited representativeness and uncertain future might be interested in concluding a collective agreement of the longest possible duration, thereby preventing normal social dialogue and ignoring the genuine interests of workers. ' Do you want me to repeat this quote from the ILO? Rannar nods his head, and then I repeat: 'The ILO Committee on Freedom of Association, whose jurisdiction Estonia is subject to, has taken the view that such agreements entail a serious risk that a trade union with limited representativeness and uncertain future might be interested in concluding a collective agreement of the longest possible duration, thereby preventing normal social dialogue and ignoring the genuine interests of workers. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U54	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U55	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will also ask a formal question, which you do not like at all, but I think it is still relatively important in legislation. In particular, I am asking about the chapter 'The Effects of the Law' in the explanatory memorandum. In its opinion, the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Government has also expressed the view that they have not been sufficiently written. I would say even more: these effects are essentially lacking, as they have not been analysed in terms of the impact on the business environment that Arto Aas asked for, nor in terms of the impact on trade union activities. The Ministry of Social Affairs has pointed out that the impact on individual employment relationships is completely unanalysed. However, this is a very important law. Don't you think this bill is a little rough to discuss here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U56	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U57	Thank you, Evgeny! You're assuming I don't like your questions. You're wrong, I really like your questions. I am very pleased that you have just asked this question, and I am very pleased that we are discussing it here. Because this discussion, these questions and answers have probably filled quite a few of the gaps you found in the chapter on the impact assessment of this draft law. I guess this series of questions has included effects. Quite a lot of things, I think, have become clearer. We will certainly continue to work on this bill, and we will deal with it between the first and second readings. In some respects, I agree with you, these effects have not been unwritten, but these effects are not always entirely predictable either. 99.9% predicted that the impact of this bill on the Estonian labour market is positive, the impact of this bill on the Estonian economy is positive, the impact of this bill on the interest of Estonian workers and employers in concluding collective agreements is positive, and this bill will increase this interest in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U58	Thank you. I have a more general question. Do you think that collective agreements are necessary or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U59	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U60	Estonia has joined international charters and international conventions with which it has committed itself to promoting collective agreements in every way. I share that view. I believe that collective agreements must be encouraged, and I am sincerely pleased that this bill does so; it promotes collective agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U61	Dear waitress, This debate has been going on for an hour. An hour ago, I didn't know anything about it. Now it gets more exciting all the time. As an outsider, I have the impression that there are some big secrets behind this thing that you don't want to talk about. The Committee on Legal Affairs must be an example of lawmaking for everyone else, but we have a draft that does not have an author who does not have a compiler that does not comply with good legislative practice. Why don't you explain to me what the real secret is that we've been discussing for an hour? What could be behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U62	The secret is very simple. Jaak, if you'd listened carefully from the beginning, you'd know I read a paragraph of a letter from the Chancellor of Justice. The secret is that § 11 (5) of the Collective Contract Act is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This paragraph affects the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia on at least three points or it violates at least three sections of the Constitution. That's the whole secret. But about the author, we already agreed that Marko was the author and father. Marko nods his head, so there's no secret. I was talking about how this started at first. This process has been going on for two years. I've got all this e-mail on my computer. Luckily, it's only on my computer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U63	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U64	Thank you, Madam President. We spoke before about the ILO's positions on collective agreements. My question in the Commission concerned, in particular, Article 6 of the Social Charter, which states very clearly that under certain conditions collective agreements must also be taken into account in the past. If you have assessed the external documents ratified by Estonia, including the Social Charter, how do you assess Article 6 of the Social Charter, which refers to collective agreements previously concluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U65	Thank you. Good question. Estonia has indeed joined the European Social Charter. In their letter, the Confederation of Trade Unions refers to the conflict existing in their opinion under Articles 5 and 6 of the Social Charter. On this point, I can say that this argument is not correct. Article 5 of the European Social Charter regulates the freedom of association of workers, the freedom of concentration in trade unions, which is also guaranteed by the Estonian Constitution. The regulation of the termination of the collective agreement is neither linked to nor bound by the freedom of association. This cannot be contrary to the freedom of association either. Article 6 of the European Social Charter, on the other hand, obliges the Republic of Estonia to facilitate the conclusion of collective agreements and to negotiate collective agreements to that end. The provision of regulation for the termination of a collective agreement is not contrary to the obligations under Article 6 of the European Social Charter. On the contrary, the abolition of the permanent continuation of collective agreements is in line with the idea of the European Social Charter and encourages the conclusion of new collective agreements as well as negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U66	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U67	Thank you. Honourable performer! Your recent statement is contradicted by the appeal to the Doctors' Association, which has just been hung up online and which says that the Riigikogu should interrupt the debate on this legislative amendment, because the amendment of this law is contrary to the principles of European social policy and worsens the situation of workers. I ask for a substantive answer and ask not to give any questioners, whether they are living in the last century or making false claims, as you have done so far! I'm asking for a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U68	Thank you, dear Heimar! I haven't given up on everyone in the past century, especially I couldn't do that for you, because it turns out that you've learned how to use the Internet while you're sitting in the hall. Honour and praise to you! But you actually repeated the last question. Speaking of the referral of the Medical Association, it has to be said that there is probably a letter from the Confederation of Trade Unions that has been made a little bit of copy and paste. I do not see any legal deterioration in these arguments. There is no conflict with the European Social Charter in this bill. If you, Heimar, reject everything you read on the Internet and think with your head, tell me quite honestly, Heimar, do you think that if you make a contract for two years, that this contract should last forever? Do you think that an open - term contract is synonymous with an everlasting covenant? No self-respecting lawyer can find it. A contract without a time limit is not an everlasting contract. I think that's what somebody in the hall doesn't understand right now or doesn't want to understand. But that's the way it is. The fact that a collective agreement can end at some point means only that workers and employers are interested in concluding new collective agreements, not fleeing from them like a plague, as they are today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U69	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U70	Thank you. I will continue my question. I don't quite agree with you that our intuitive, amateur argument about the effects of the law has somehow brought us closer to the truth. Your intuition says that with 99% probability it improves the business environment. I think somebody's intuition says that with 99% probability, it'll make the workers' situation worse. Still, experts should have thoroughly analysed the effects of this law. But I ask the question so beautifully asked by your party partner in processing another bill: how can a responsible member of the Riigikogu take a stand on this law if the experts have not thoroughly analysed the effects of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U71	I don't know how much you wanted to ask now, or what you wanted to say, but I'm still gonna tell you that these effects aren't unanalyzed. One part of these effects comes out of the draft explanatory memorandum, the other part is very clear from today's discussion. If you call it a discussion of amateurs or dilemmas, it's on your conscience. I have dealt very seriously and deeply with this draft, including all the objections raised in the letters that I have received from the Confederation of Trade Unions and the TALO, including those that have been preconceived to the President of the Republic of Estonia, warning him that this law should not be declared in any way. Trade unions have written these letters. I've received feedback from employers. If it pleases you more, I'll go further, and I won't say 99.9% anymore, but I'll say 100%. Believe me, Evgeny, this bill will improve the situation on the labour market, because no eternal treaty, I repeat, can be justified in any way. One more time, Evgeny, we are talking about a lawman, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia on three points. We can't ignore it, we can't ignore it. The President has been in this very chair to talk about how important it is that we make good laws that are not in conflict with the Constitution. That is what the Chancellor of Justice has done. I do not understand, quite frankly, why some part of the Riigikogu is fighting in favour of maintaining a paragraph that is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U72	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U73	Thank you. Good waitress! We have talked a lot here about the fact that the current law is not in accordance with the Constitution. Of course, the Constitution has endured with minor changes, but mostly unchanged for quite a long time. In fact, you might ask why he was made like this in his day. But when we argue about authorship and initiative, I ask whether there is a little feeling that the current version is a problem for a particular industry or for a particular company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U74	If I understood the question correctly, you would rather call on us to amend the Constitution, which is an interesting proposal in itself. However, if we stick to the draft law amending the law on collective agreements, I am certainly not saying that this is one of the problems of a company or industry. I cannot accept the argument that the current version of the collective agreement, which prevents the labour market parties from concluding new collective agreements, would be a problem for one company or one industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U75	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U76	Thank you. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party have also signed a single agreement. I don't know if it's fixed-term, permanent or permanent, but it's called a government union program. It says here that the principles of good practice for inclusion are applied. Do you think that this point was fulfilled in bringing this bill here or in preparing the government union programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U77	Thank you, Rannar! Firstly, the coalition agreement or coalition agreement has been concluded for four years, so it is time-bound. The other part of your question was whether we have involved social groups and parties whose interests are affected by this legislative amendment. I say we are. I was even a little disappointed or surprised by how sluggishly these parties came along at first. This knowledge reached them in mid-December, at which time information about the draft law amending the law on collective agreements went out of the Legal Affairs Committee. The initial reactions were nonexistent, a little excitement has started to emerge now, in mid-January. I don't know why. But the statement that we have somehow brought the bill to the Riigikogu in secret, and only now the parties have discovered it, is wrong. In fact, they've been aware of that. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has also spoken personally to all of them, and I have been in contact with quite a few of them, including the national mediator. There's been a lot of contacts. We have indeed tried our best not to raise this issue at all in this Chamber. It's a little unfair that the question is now up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U78	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U79	Dear waitress, If you place yourself in the role of an employee with a collective agreement at his place of work, do you feel that there is something seriously worrying about this legislative amendment, for example, for the contractor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U80	I'm who I am. I'm trying to be a responsible person and think that if the company is doing well, I'm doing well, and if I'm doing well, the company's doing well. Those times have passed when, as has been said, there was a class struggle, one person had tools, and the other one fought against the owner of the equipment, and at all costs it was necessary to see the conflict everywhere. I certainly don't see any problem with this legislative amendment. I'd rather see it positive. If I were an employee working in a company where there is no collective agreement and where the employer is clearly not interested in concluding a collective agreement, because he does not want to be trapped forever in what this agreement may become after a while, I would be very pleased to hear that such a bill is being discussed in the Riigikogu. But just like that, I'd be happy if I was an employer and I could hear it. I stress once again that this change is beautifully neutral in terms of interests. Both sides should be positive, because this change will put an end to an absurd situation in which one contract can be valid forever. On the other hand, this will put an end to a situation where no one dares to enter into new agreements precisely because they can remain in force forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U81	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Do you have an overview or could anyone else have an overview of how many collective agreements have been concluded in the Republic of Estonia today? If this good law is adopted and will apply from 1 March, it would be interesting, for example, in a year's time, to see whether the number of contracts concluded has increased or decreased. Do you have an update on that? This question is really simply a matter of interest. How many collective agreements are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U83	That's a very good question. I was interested in that myself. I didn't get that number anywhere. Perhaps it would be possible to get that figure if the trade unions who are watching today's discussion sent us this data. Otherwise, it's very, very difficult to find out. That would certainly be a very interesting knowledge. I believe that there will be more of these agreements in the future thanks to this change. I'm very interested in finding out if that's the case or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U84	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U85	Thank you. You said that this amendment has been widely discussed with the parties. However, it claims the opposite in its referral to the Riigikogu. It is written here that amending the law on collective agreements without discussing with employees is not appropriate for the rule of law. They ask the Riigikogu to stop discussing the matter. Hence my question: why are some of the future Contracting Parties so opposed to this law, which you say is a very good law? I'm asking you not to be familiar and not to speak out of my face!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U86	Dear Mr. Lenk! I'm really sorry if I went too far with the family! We've been on top of you so far, but if you want, we can do it in this hall. First of all, of course, it is good to see that one document can work so long with your head and ask a number of more or less identical questions. I assume that the Estonian Arstide Union has something to do with either the Estonian Trade Union Confederation or the TALO. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the TALO have been involved, they have given their answer and I expect them to represent a certain number of trade union alliances. Why do some trade unions feel that this change is negative? What the ILO has said, I quote twice at the request of Rannar: the low-impact trade unions want to conclude collective agreements with a particularly long duration, which are not in any way favourable to the labour market or the economy, because of the fear of even greater loss of influence. I think that's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U87	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, thank you for your relevant and comprehensive answers! I believe that those of the colleagues in this Chamber who wanted to learn more about this bill certainly became wiser. But there have also been many philosophical reflections on this subject. In summary, can the waitress briefly say once more what is the 'world-historical importance' of this draft so that it does not disappear in the middle of all this long talk?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U89	Thank you. Good question. Perhaps it is appropriate to conclude this round of questions with a small summary. The proposed amendment to the collective agreement law is, in principle, intended to achieve two objectives. Firstly, we want to eliminate the contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, and this is in itself linked to this contradiction with the Constitution, there should not be contracts in the Estonian legal space that will be valid forever, even though they have a period of validity. These are the two things we want to change. We want the collective agreement, which will be concluded for one or two years in the future, indeed to be valid for one or two years or more, if both parties so wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U90	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U91	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have stressed on several occasions, as an important main motive for initiating this draft, the contradiction of the current provision with the Constitution. Can you tell us what happens procedurally, what should be the next step of the Riigikogu if this bill is not approved by the Riigikogu? In what way and with what steps can the Riigikogu bring this provision into line with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U92	That's eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U93	Thank you for a good question. First of all, I don't really think there's an alternative. But if I were to theorize, I can say that a more thorough revision of the collective agreement law is currently underway, which has been being discussed for years. Maybe we could do that someday. Although, in principle, this option precludes the Chancellor of Justice in his letter, which he concludes in this way: 'I would also stress once again that the contested provision infringes the fundamental right of at least three employees, the employer and the party to the collective agreement. That is why I am hoping for the swiftest possible elimination of unconstitutionalism. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U94	Good waitress! No further questions for you. Thank you very much to Valdo Randpere for his presentation and answers! I'm opening negotiations. First of all, as a representative of the political group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U95	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of April this year, 20 years will come from the first tripartite agreement between trade unions, the government and employers. Since then, collective agreements were also concluded in institutions and organisations. Of course it wasn't massive. Employers were very careful, and often the disputes lasted for years, agreements were reached as a result of difficult negotiations, and relations had to be cleared by a national mediator. During the recent recession, these agreements were very rarely born in Estonia, but there has been progress in recent times. Contracts cover, for example, the entire energy system, bus companies, Tallink now has a contract, not to mention previous agreements. Today we can say that 23% of our workforce is covered by collective agreements. This is quite a good result for Eastern Europe. This means that workers and employers have been agreed, for example, on pay, hours of work and rest, holidays and many other working conditions, usually subject to conditions which are more favourable than an individual contract of employment. After all, a collective agreement means a collective contract of employment. That is why it is absolutely incredible that in Estonia, in one of the Member States of the European Union and the ILO, or the International Labour Organisation, a draft law suddenly appeared on Parliament's desks, which gives the employer the opportunity to unilaterally cancel a collective agreement that has become permanent and to get rid of the agreement in the past by failing to fulfil its obligations. The explanatory memorandum considers that such regulation does not make economic sense, in addition to restricting the freedom to conduct a business and the freedom to contract. It is all the more strange, I want to emphasise that the reform of collective labour relations, such as dealing with the law on collective labour dispute resolution, is part of the current government's work plan and is being done now. Now, however, only one point is wanted to be changed in advance at the utmost speed, which, unfortunately, is so extensive in substance that it brings to an end years of work. If an open-ended contract can be revoked at random, then there is no need for it anymore. Things have only been done in back rooms, and the social partners have not been involved. In order for the government not to receive the minus points, the draft was drawn up not in the government, but in the coalition ambassadors' camp in the Riigikogu Legal Committee. In its opinion, the Confederation of Trade Unions stresses that it is demagogical to justify the drafting of the draft by reference to Nordic labour law. After all, it is a well-known fact that the Scandinavian countries have for more than a hundred years a deeply rooted social partnership culture, where employment relations are largely regulated by collective agreements rather than by legislation. This will ensure consistency in the conclusion of collective agreements in these countries. The Estonian state has no comparable practice, which means that the explanatory memorandum to the draft has compared completely incomparable things. In legislation, this activity is considered to be incompetent and unacceptable, says the position of the Confederation of Trade Unions. In addition, the positions of the Chancellor of Justice concerning the need to ensure stability in employment relations and to take account of the requirement to continue the terms of the collective agreement even after the agreement has expired. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves was informed that the Confederation of Trade Unions sent a public address to President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, asking for an intervention in the process of amending the collective agreement law initiated by the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs, if necessary. It is also explained that the current Law of Obligations Act still provides for the possibility of declaring an exceptionally unreasonable, so-called burdensome collective agreement. It can also be said that so far there has never been a situation where a collective agreement concluded years ago would have caused some companies so much difficulty that it would have been necessary to cancel it exceptionally. I would like to reiterate that there is a great deal of attention to collective agreements in the countries of the European Union and that, if we are to make such drastic changes here, it will immediately also receive the attention of the ILO. After all, we are going directly against the principles and practice of the European Social Charter. According to these principles, the Member State must create favourable conditions and a favourable climate for social dialogue and direct the parties to the conclusion of agreements and not to their conclusion, as we will probably read out of this draft on behalf of employers and which, unfortunately, has also been approved by Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Moreover, we are again experiencing that the document, which should be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, deals with the regulation of work relations, after all, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where there is, however, a relatively low level of competence in this area, is intended to be adopted in an accelerated manner. We also noticed this in the case of the Employment Contracts Act, which was given for processing by the Legal Affairs Committee. The Centre Party Group considers that this draft, which gives employers the opportunity to unilaterally and without justification to terminate permanent collective agreements, goes against the principle of legal certainty for people, the draft only attaches importance to the economic interests of the employer, leaving aside the social interests of workers. In view of the above, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I propose that the draft be excluded from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U97	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union of Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U98	Good afternoon, honourable President and honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will also take this opportunity to negotiate on the basis of my role as Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I followed very closely the questions that were asked in this Chamber and I made a small table for myself, which contains the questions concerning the draft and its content, and those which are not really concerned. There were not many questions about the content, but I hope that the amendments that the Committee on Legal Affairs can discuss during its sittings will be well drafted. Now, from the question of Helmen Hunter, how many collective agreements are there? I was just looking up, everyone has access to these data, the Social Ministry website has this database (it can be found if you go a little further along the links). As of today, 178 collective agreements have been registered there, both in the private and public sectors, museums, opera theatres and elsewhere. As regards good legislative practice and standard practice, I agree in part with the criticism. The waitress explained why. Indeed, very different parties have contributed to this draft and, in my opinion, it is not quite ethical to comply with the norm requirements simply by signing the name of a particular official there. I think that, at the end of this reading, we will certainly make improvements to the explanatory memorandum, and this draft will be more exemplary in terms of technical design. I also agree with the comments on the effects. There are certainly places that can be analysed, and they should be reflected in the explanatory statement. These comments were also made to us by a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Government when he visited the Committee on Legal Affairs to evaluate the draft. Indeed, these effects are in many ways estimated and depend slightly on the starting point of the viewer. When it comes to the social partners' attitude to this particular draft, to this regulatory effort, these are classic views. Now, in terms of inclusion, whether this has been done enough or too little. It is true that the intention to bring the draft proceedings was announced in the course of last year. This is one of the possible legal ways of initiating the draft. As far as contacts so far are concerned, I have physically met Harri Tali once, and today I am meeting with the Tarmo Crisis. But when the first reading is over and we begin to agree on work plans for the next weeks, representatives of trade unions and employers, including the Chancellor of Justice, will be invited to take part in our discussions and will be involved in the work of the Commission. The substantive issues concerned the current possibility of implementing the debt law and the complexity of this option. Speaking of what might be the outcome of this process, I think that individual employment contracts will also be... I'll have two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U99	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U100	... better reflected. I've had two experiences myself. On behalf of the state, as Minister of Social Affairs, I negotiated with the contractors in good times. In that case, the shearer supported me. When I took up the office of Minister for the Interior and had a collective agreement with my colleague, Pihl, but the time was quite different and had to start collecting costs, this particular shear was useful for the contractors. After all, both social partners are interested in working peace. The laws must be consistent; we must be guided by them. As far as the competence of Commission officials is concerned, I recommend that good colleagues do not share their assessments. I am satisfied with the work of my officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U101	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Grand Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U102	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U103	Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we can observe how the Riigikogu perhaps takes our esteemed partners from the coalition to take different attitudes and deal with draft laws completely differently. The time distance between two moments isn't long. A short time ago, there was a draft tabled by the Social Democrats in this very Chamber on rescue services and special pensions, i.e. retirement pensions for rescue workers and deminers. It was a very necessary bill. The Commission has also recognised that this is very necessary. It was acknowledged that the whole issue of special pensions for special services has been stuck for a very long time. However, this particular draft was not left in the process because the Government of the Republic is planning to review the whole package of special pensions and it was said that, in order not to separate a part of the whole picture, it would not be dealt with. There was a vote and the draft was rejected. This is exactly the same case. Reform of collective labour relations has been launched under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In coordination with employee representative organisations, the collective agreement law, the collective labour dispute resolution law and the statute of the conciliator of the collective labour dispute are subject to review. That means the whole package. The previous speaker, Valdo Randpere, said that we have no barricade. Really, there is no barricade. Both employers and employees have seen that collective labour relations and related laws need to be reviewed. Why, then, are we now taking out one point, Article 11 of the Collective Contract Act, and trying to solve this problem in complete isolation? This same norm rule states that this would only be possible if it were a particular urgency. What makes this provision particularly urgent? There is no explanation. Let's go back to the norm rule that the previous setup brought before us so wonderfully. Indeed, the rule states that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law must contain the names of the draft and the explanatory memorandum, the representative of the working group and, for example, the lawyer who checked the legal quality of the draft and the explanatory memorandum. Why are we really looking so hard at where the bill came from? Apart from the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has rightly referred to a possible breach of the Constitution, there is no urgent procedure for the draft. The Chancellor of Justice's reference, of course, is also a very good reason, but if we knew who and what purpose the draft had been drawn up, we would be able to discuss all of this better. Until then, we knew that our good colleague Marko Pomerants has been both Minister of Social Affairs and Minister of the Interior. Now it turns out that he's also good from a tank that has set out its wide breast to defend this bill and doesn't care if it's shot open in the chest. As regards the rules on the regulation of the drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu, this rule includes, in addition to the paragraph that states that the names of the drafts must be indicated in the explanatory memorandum, as well as the requirement that the explanatory memorandum include "Coordination of drafts, involvement of interest groups and public consultation' (Article 50 of the Code). However, this part of the draft explanatory memorandum does not exist, simply because coordination, stakeholder involvement and public consultation have been omitted in drafting the draft. A very simple reason. I must admit that, unlike my colleague, Mr Randpere, I cannot say that this is a draft law that complies with good legislative practice and with the norm rules. The draft does not comply with good legislative practice or with the norm. When it comes to matters of substance, there is a very serious deficiency that this bill has, and was also pointed out by the Ministry of Social Affairs, that the amendment does not take into account individual employment relationships or what changes may be in individual employment relationships, i.e. it does not protect the acquired rights of employees. This claim that the whole of Europe is living differently is demagogic. The Nordic countries live in a very different way, and their entire collective labour package is different. However, as regards the fact that the acquired rights of workers remain valid even when the collective agreement expires, such practice exists in several European countries, such as Germany, where the individual rights arising from collective agreements for workers are very firmly protected after the collective agreement expires. One point in the draft relates to the deadline for cancellation of the collective agreement. It is said that cancellation should be possible at three months' notice. Let's see what's real. Nothing's going on in three months. Within three months, the wish to terminate a collective employment relationship may be dealt with by a national conciliator and his work, together with all procedures, may last for several months longer than that of three months. Surely a three-month notice period is not enough. Finally, the European Social Charter. It is not good to read only the first points and the last points in Article 6 of the Social Charter, as Valdo Randpere has so skilfully demonstrated here. If the last point still says that the collective agreements that have been in force in the past must be taken into account, then we should also take them into account. In this context, the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed not to stop reading the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U105	Thank you. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Kalle Jents Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we are overly focused on one wrong assumption in this Chamber today. In particular, there have been constant claims on the part of the opposition and social democrats that this amendment is intended to be implemented in order to favour the interests of employers and to harm the interests of employees. I would like to make one argument here, which was actually spoken by the rapporteur, Valdo Randpere, in replying thoroughly to the questions: if we do not make this legislative amendment, it will be detrimental to the employees. I have worked as a private company manager for 15 years, I have also worked in the public sector and I have seen these collective agreements. First of all, it may be too much drama. What is important in working relationships? It is still important to have a contract of employment; it is important to have conditions and additional conditions; it is important to have good company practice. There was no collective agreement in my company, but there were summer days, Christmas bonuses, children's winter days, etc. This is the case in many companies today, even though these things are not included in the collective agreement or there is no collective agreement at all. The fact that collective agreements are now as Valdo Randpere repeatedly stressed that they will apply forever and ever, is why the employer makes sure that, for God's sake, nothing like this can enter there that he may not be able to fill in in two or three years. I think that if both sides have the opportunity and the right to cancel the agreement with reasonable notice, collective agreements will become more meaningful. Employers would certainly put more benefits in there. Last week my group and I went to Lääne-Virumaa. Quite a number of companies saw changes in the labour market. We come from the time of the recession, from the time of the recession, and we think that when employers get this right, all collective agreements will be abolished and no more benefits will exist. But what did we see in Lääne-Virumaa? We saw free lunches, saw entrepreneurs transport people to work on free buses. We know that unemployment has also fallen in Lääne-Virumaa, today it is 7.5%, but it was once 15 to 17%. In fact, we already have a shortage of labour and businesses are interested in having collective agreements setting out such conditions as to enable them to be employed. So, ladies and gentlemen, I completely agree with what Neeme the Great said that this three-month deadline should perhaps be longer, but this is all about further debates. However, I think voting out of the procedure for this draft law would be very short-sighted. Rather, let us discuss the matter further so that this amendment can be made sensible. But certainly, we have made other labour market relations more flexible (I am thinking here of the Employment Contract Act) and when we catch up with the collective agreement law here, I think it will be good for both employers and employees. These fears are redundant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-24_U107	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. Since the Bureau of the Riigikogu has received a proposal from the Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft 153 after the first reading (for the sake of my verbatim report, I state that these are identical proposals, the Parliament's Home and Rules of Procedure Act has been discussed, the Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes not to stop the first reading of the draft, we consider them identical proposals) and this proposal needs to be voted through, we will start preparing the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the proposal by the Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft law at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 37 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 50 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 153 amendments by 4 p.m. on 7 February 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, The agenda is exhausted. Thank you for your participation and I wish you a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 11.48 a.m.
