ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address the question on behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. This inquiry was prompted by Mr Aaviksoo's reply to a written question concerning the health of conscripts. Jaak Aaviksoo, as we know, is now replacing Mart Laar in his post. This reply identified data of great concern. The fact that in 2011, only 36% of those called for military service were eligible for military service, which is too little. Our young men are one of the few population groups whose health is constantly monitored. When we look at this dynamic, we discover that every year the proportion of young men whose health allows them to serve in the military is reduced. Three years ago, it was 41%, now 36%. As a result, we have six questions for Mr Pevkur and we also hope to get constructive answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now I'll give you a few messages. On Wednesday, 18 April, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. There are 87 comms registered, 14 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to today's agenda. There are two points on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U4	I would like to draw attention to the first item on the agenda. Today, it is a procedural matter of significant differences compared to the first reading of ordinary draft laws. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the "Deputy Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice" by the Chancellor of Justice. It shall include a presentation by the representative of the commission for a maximum of 20 minutes, a presentation by an official candidate of up to five minutes and questions to the rapporteurs. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask both rapporteurs an oral question. This will be followed by negotiations. I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the first presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to § 37 (1) of the Chancellor of Justice Act, the appointment of the Deputy Chancellor of Justice-adviser is a decision-making power of the Riigikogu. Consequently, the Constitutional Committee discussed draft 211 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the "Deputy Chancellor of Justice - Advisor' at its meeting on 9 April. On behalf of the authors, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder went to the Commission to present the draft. The Commission also heard and asked questions from Hent-Raul Kalmo, candidate for the Deputy Chancellor of Justice's advisor. The Commission decided to support the draft and to make one technical specification of the draft with the agreement of the draft author. This was the appointment of the time for the Riigikogu decision to take effect. Following this technical change, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided by consensus to present the draft as amended at first reading. The Commission also decided to propose to put this draft decision on the agenda of the plenary session on 17 April, to put it to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also decided to propose that the candidate for the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, Hent-Raul Kalmo, present a presentation to the Riigikogu's plenary session for up to five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U6	Thank you very much. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U7	Thank you. Has there ever been a question in the committee as to why the Deputy Chancellor of Justice-adviser should have been appointed at the level of the Riigikogu? Would it not be more reasonable for the Chancellor of Justice, who has been appointed by the Riigikogu, to form his own team?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U8	To be honest, we did not have such a question during the Commission's debate. The present procedure follows from the law of the Chancellor of Justice, in particular, as I said in my report, from § 37 (1). How can we address this issue in the future? I think that is a good question, and the Commission could discuss it, but we have now been following the law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U9	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U10	Paul-Erik and I have been discussing this issue and I will continue with it. The Chancellor of Justice is, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, a single institution. He's not a member of the government, he has nothing to do with he's a one-man institution, a man like an orchestra, alone. What does his deputy have to do with the state? He can't sign any papers unless he's an actress, can he? There's nothing he can do, maybe he can sign the gas bills, and that's it. Now the question is: do you see any logic here as to why such a provision has ever entered the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U11	As with the previous question, it is difficult for me to say what was the logic of adopting this law at the time in order to give this competence to the plenary of the Riigikogu. But, as I said, every law lives its own life, and if really people in the Chamber think that this competence could be different, that the Chancellor of Justice could have the right to form his own team, then, as I said, we will certainly take it up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U12	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! Did the Commission also mention what tasks the Deputy Chancellor of Justice could carry out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U14	As it emerges from this title, he is a deputy advisor and the range of topics is all that the Chancellor of Justice deals with. He can't do anything other than what the Chancellor of Justice has to do. As it already sounded here, this is one of the teams necessary to meet the objectives of the Chancellor of Justice. The topics of the Deputy Advisor are the same as those of the Chancellor of Justice, everything depends on how the Chancellor of Justice plans his work. I understand there are two deputy advisors at the Chancellor of Justice's office and how he shares the work between them depends on the Chancellor of Justice himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U15	Thank you, Deniss Borodich! Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of the candidate Hent-Raul Kalmo, Deputy Chancellor of Justice of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for the opportunity to speak before your honorable assembly. In these few minutes, it will not be possible to go into detail, to deal with individual cases, so I will limit myself to a more general comment on the role of the Chancellor of Justice. The Estonian Chancellor of Justice has a rather unique role to play precisely because the Chancellor of Justice is independent. He is not a legal adviser to one of the branches of state authority, but operates outside a classic system of state powers. I have the feeling that from this point of view, the Chancellor of Justice has given rise to a rather specific role, which I believe has so far been very well carried out by the Chancellor of Justice. And this role lies primarily in the preparation of non-final decisions. In this sense, the Chancellor of Justice is largely in a consultative role. I have the feeling that this specific competence should continue to be taken into account in the design of legislation in the future. The Chancellor of Justice should play a role in enabling him to maintain his authority, on which the Chancellor of Justice's positions, which are not sanctioned, are also based. Furthermore, it seems to me that this role is due to the fact that the Chancellor of Justice cannot be a competitor of any branch of state. In particular, the Chancellor of Justice cannot be a competitor of the judiciary and, in this sense, I believe that he will never be an alternative to the court. I have the feeling that the Chancellor of Justice can first and foremost shape general positions and this more general role of directionist is also confirmed by the draft law amending the law currently pending before the Riigikogu. With these general remarks, I would limit myself to that. Thank you again and I look forward to the questions of the members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U17	Thank you very much for your presentation. Any questions for Hent-Raul Kalmo, the candidate for the Assistant Chancellor of Justice's advisor? Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'd like to continue with the question that already sounded here. It was about your future role if we support your candidacy. What could your role as Deputy Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice be, perhaps, which areas could be covered by you? The representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was unable to give a precise answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U19	In general, the Deputy Advisor shall consult the Chancellor of Justice throughout his/her competence and in this respect he/she shall be in contact with all questions. So far, I have been personally involved in economic matters in Section II of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. But if the Riigikogu supports my candidacy, in my future activities, the emphasis will be on the norm control, particularly as regards the control of legality and constitutionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U20	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U21	Thank you. The fact that the Chancellor of Justice may not always be able to be proactive enough, even though the Chancellor of Justice, or in many cases his deputy, is present at meetings of the government, is a consequence of the law currently in force. In your opinion, could it be considered to amend this provision, or perhaps by regulating practices, it is possible to achieve an immediate constructive criticism of the presence of the government at the meeting? In that case, perhaps we would not later end up in situations where criticism has arrived so late that the decision-makers have not made any more decisions, agreements have been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U22	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I consider the importance of prior checking to be very important myself. On the other hand, I feel that ex ante controls and so-called ex post controls must complement each other. Ex ante control, indeed, is important and I think that this should be given great emphasis from the point of view of procedural economy. On the other hand, it cannot replace the competence of the Chancellor of Justice in the context of ex-post monitoring. So I agree that ex ante controls need more emphasis in the future than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U23	Please, any more questions for the waitress? There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Hent-Raul Kalmo! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to 211 final votes and to adopt it as a decision. Let's start preparing for the vote. Before the vote, allow me to point out that pursuant to § 79 (2) (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure, this is a secret vote. Please let us prepare for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the "Deputy Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice" 211. Please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote With the result of 86 votes in favour, no one is against, one abstention has been adopted as a decision on the draft. Congratulations, Hent-Raul Kalmo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Peeter Võsa, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U25	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The drafting of the draft act is due to the need to bring the law on enforcement proceedings into line with the law on the expropriation of immovable property. So what's the problem? The law on enforcement proceedings shall lay down only the decisions of the county governor as an enforceable document in the expropriation proceedings. Orders of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and orders of city or rural municipality government are not provided as enforcement documents, which precludes expropriation. So here's the situation. Pursuant to subsections 16 (6), 36 (4) and 40 (2) of the Detention Act, when expropriated, the expropriation officer is ordered in general cases by the county governor, by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications upon expropriation for the construction or acquisition of a state road or public railway, by the municipality or city government upon expropriation for the construction or acquisition of a local road. The bailiff shall be ordered to write down, assess and, if necessary, deposit, take over and transfer the property of the expropriated immovable property, pay the compulsory rent and compensation to the guarantor and to other persons whose rights have been adversely affected by the expropriation. Paragraph 2 (1) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure provides for the enforcement documents to be completed by the bailiff. Its point 14 provides for an enforceable title in the proceedings for the expropriation of immovable property only for the decision of the governor of the land. Thus, these two related laws are contradictory to each other. The proposal is as follows: It is necessary to amend the Code of Enforcement Procedure in order to carry out the activities of the bailiff necessary for the construction of a state road, public railway and local road in the expropriation procedure. The proposal is to amend Article 2 (1) (14) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure and to bring it into line with the law on the expropriation of immovable property. As a result of the amendment, the decisions of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the decisions of the municipality or city administration are also enforceable in the proceedings for the expropriation of immovable property. This situation is, in our view, reasonable and also applicable to the Code of Enforcement Procedure in force until 1 January 2006, of which § 1 (1) (16) provided for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U26	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Peter Võsa. I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U27	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby report to you on the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 9 April, chaired by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee, and Tiina Kärsna in the minutes. The members of the committee were Laanet, Anvelt, Gräzin, Jens, Suur, Võsa, Kabrits and Randpere, officials of Liivamägi and Laide. There was no Priit Toobal. Deputy Chancellor Marko Aavik of the Ministry of Justice and Head of the Secretary-General Kätlin Joala of the Central Party faction were invited. Peeter Võsa presented to the Commission the content and objectives of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Central Party Group, essentially speaking about what you heard from him a moment ago before the honourable Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic's decision to support the initiation of the draft was also presented. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by today's date of 17 April and to close the first reading and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 2 May. Initially Neeme the Great was appointed as rapporteur, and later the circle was decided in favour of Andres Anvelt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-17_U28	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, any questions? It's all clear, there are no questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft 183. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 2 May at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 10:26 a.m.
