ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 41 comms registered, 60 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Let's get to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are eight issues that have already been registered, I promise two issues that have been registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U2	The first question is Mr Andrus Ansip, the Prime Minister, from Mrs Ester Tuksoo to Mr Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U3	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! One of the essential elements of the new financial perspective is, of course, the agricultural budget. The Minister of Agriculture has argued that Germany supports the Baltics' wish to increase subsidies in the next financial period. I would like to ask you that if you go to Council meetings and communicate with representatives of other countries, what are the opinions on the claim that agricultural subsidies in the Baltics should be equal to those in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U4	There has been no question on the agenda of the Council on the financial perspective or the current multiannual budgetary plan with a new name. But between us, of course, we are also discussing these issues. At the level of such communication, of course, everyone agrees that direct payments should be equalised in the Member States, and the European Commission has come up with this proposal. Only it will not satisfy us that it will take so long to equalise direct payments. I believe that we will achieve a much better solution for direct payments than the European Commission has proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U5	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U6	Some business communities have expressed the opinion that when our government started negotiating and supporting the euro zone rescue package in Europe, one of the conditions could have been the increase in Estonian agricultural subsidies. It might have had a little more weight than, for example, collecting signatures and sending them to Brussels. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U7	In this sense, I think badly that in Estonia's foreign policy there will never be a link between issues that are not intrinsically combined. We have approached all problems on a theme-based basis and have sought the best solutions within the scope of the subject itself. We have not made any deals with any other issues by compromising or, on the contrary, by gaining any additional benefit. This would not be good political practice. It would not speak of a good political culture. We need to talk about things the way they are. When we are talking about agricultural policy, we should remain focused on agricultural policy. It makes no sense for us to talk about the fact that ensuring the stability of the euro is in Estonia's interest just as much as it is in the interests of other eurozone countries. In my opinion, this would not be a good feature of us if we asked for additional bonuses for the stability of the euro area. At the same time, the question of equality is correct. Agricultural payments must be equal for everyone, and no one is opposed to this in a declarative way. However, there is currently no consensus among the leaders of the various Member States on the deadline for equal treatment of farmers to become a reality in the European Union. We demand faster harmonisation, those who pay more to the single budget want slower harmonisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U8	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U9	Prime Minister! Today is the final Question Time for this session and I wish you a beautiful summer and thank you for your answers. But one more question I have, it starts with the word 'if'. If you were given the choice of reducing the agricultural budget or the Structural Funds budget in the next financial period, which would you choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U10	It is relatively unethical to propose such choices, and I believe that we will not be put before such choices in our negotiations. We have two major themes to discuss in principle. One relates to the general agricultural policy and the other to the cohesion policy. But let us assume that we have not two, but 12 or 20 of these diamond circles. Each problem must still be resolved separately, to find an optimal solution that is fair to everyone. After all, we cannot accept the fact that injustice remains true on one issue and that in the other we are simply getting some kind of relief. We want the optimal solution in everything, as good as we can get at the moment. Both these issues are extremely important to us, and on both issues I hope for a much better solution than the European Commission has now proposed. It has to be said that what the European Commission has proposed is quite good for Estonia, but there are two details in which we want to make it even better. These are the equal treatment of farmers in the Member States for the ceiling of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U11	Let's start by asking questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U12	Prime Minister! How do you see the financial perspective of Estonia in general? Last year's economic growth was largely due to one-off measures, and economics expert Heido Vitsur has just pointed out that this growth was due to a previous drop of 20%, but also to one-off activities such as Ericsson's bringing production to Estonia to a large extent. News from Eesti Pank has just come through the BNS that the economic growth of the euro area is also very low: this year's forecast is between 0.5 and 0.3%. How do you see Estonia's perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U13	Eesti Pank improved Estonia's forecast for economic growth just today. It is true that one commercial bank made this forecast worse, from 4.2% to 3.8%, but it still means that there are quite large growth prospects compared to other European Union countries. Eesti Pank improved the forecast from 1.9% to 2.6% if I am not deceived by memory, and this is quite a significant change in forecast. I guess this is all happening in the context of a relatively high degree of uncertainty. We do not know what economic trends will be in Europe as a whole. Ericsson has certainly had a symbolic meaning for the Estonian economy. The fact that Ericsson decided to build the factory specifically in Tallinn is a signal to a large number of investors from Sweden, Finland and elsewhere. Because while Ericsson already trusts the Estonian investment environment, other companies, especially small ones, are not going to carry out separate analyses, but are guided by authority. As many as 500 companies belonging to Finnish capital started operating in Estonia last year. Estonia has managed to keep its public finances in order, and this organisation of public finances attracts direct foreign investment here. And, above all, foreign direct investment will create new jobs, with additional production and growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U14	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U15	Good Prime Minister! The financial situation of the European Union is critical and complex. In the financial field, all kinds of firewalls are currently being built in the form of various funds. Do you think that our Riigikogu will have to meet this summer to discuss the ESM issue and take decisions on the European financial situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U16	I do hope that the Riigikogu will meet in the summer to discuss joining the European Stability Mechanism. I have said this from this speaker before that the war was not over when Bretton Woods decided what the financial framework of the post-war world would be. Then it was decided to set up an International Monetary Fund. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has been very effective for decades, helping countries in severe difficulties. And the currency fund has not lost resources, but, on the contrary, it has increased its power over decades. However, those countries that have benefited have risen again thanks to the International Monetary Fund. It was therefore no wonder that Estonia decided to join the International Monetary Fund without heated debates after the restoration of independence. At the time, our participation in the International Monetary Fund was 4% of gross domestic product. Why, when the euro was created, did not foresee that the euro would also need its mutual assistance fund, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), it is very difficult for me to explain afterwards, but the current crisis has actually brought out that the old way cannot go any further. A European stability mechanism must be established and it is also in Estonia's interest. The firewall must be so high that the fire does not flow from the neighborhood to our own home. And the more secure the firewall protects us from the fire, the more we can save resources, either by extinguishing the fire that broke out or by restoring the fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U18	Next is Mr Simson's question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U19	Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, On 1 January 2013, the electricity market will be opened to domestic consumers and this will lead to a price increase which the Ministry of Finance forecasts is considered inevitable. The consumer currently pays 11.41 euro cents per kilowatt-hour for the Home1 package. This price will take the form of a basic tariff, network service, renewable energy fee, electricity excise duty and VAT. Apart from the basic tariff, the State will be able to influence everything in the coming year. Thus, almost three quarters, or 72,4%, of the national consumer price of electricity, can be affected. What is the basis, then, for saying that there is nothing the state can do to mitigate the effect of rising electricity prices next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U20	I would like to begin by clarifying one important detail that you did not quite correctly reflect on your question. Indeed, you said that opening up the electricity market would lead, or we would be a little more cautious, to price increases from 1 January 2013. However, we consider that a completely new European emissions trading system will be launched on 1 January 2013, which means that most Estonian electricity producers will have to start buying CO2 quotas on the market. If we look at the foreseeable market price of the CO2 quota, we can say even the worst price for electricity resulting from opening up the market, imagining that opening up the market will actually prevent a high price increase due to European climate policy. I hope my thinking was understandable. That's one. Secondly, I have repeatedly said that, above all, there is a need for an agreement on renewable energy charges, both in the short term and in the long term. This is certainly an area where we need to find a balanced consensus that we are developing renewable energy, but not too much at the expense of consumers. Also, it is wrong that the government does not seem to monitor the extent to which the price of electricity affects our consumer price index, the extent to which it affects different households and what the associated transfers to the payment of income support may be. I know the Ministry of Social Affairs is working on it. We will certainly plan more money for income support in next year's budget than is necessary. So we are certainly also dealing with the short-term social impacts associated with the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U21	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have an interesting way of showing the bad news as positive, and I mean your words that opening up the market will prevent any price increases that might result from buying CO2 quotas. However, the opening-up of the electricity market, on the basis of forecasts, means that the basic tariff will increase by 40%. So the price increase will prevent the price increase? But if the support for renewable energy, which you have talked about, were to be reduced by 50%, this increase would be 8.2% for the household consumer. And if the Central Party proposed a further reduction in electricity excise duties, household customers would expect an increase in electricity prices of only 4.5% next year. Thus, the government has an opportunity to mitigate the price increase. You are now saying that an agreement must be reached. Why is this agreement not being reached, and why is the government not taking concrete steps to reduce the price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U23	I have not heard any serious statements from the opposition on the amendment of renewable energy tariffs. None! You don't have the government's responsibility today, do you? We also have the responsibility of the government to enter into a reasonable agreement with investors who invested in renewable energy that would not harm the Estonian economic environment. That's a serious question. The fact that I myself am deeply convinced that renewable energy charges are too high is likely to be clear to everyone. But we must act responsibly in order to find agreements with those who have made the investments so far. You, who are in opposition, I have not heard any of your views! There are suspicious thoughts as to why you are so silent on this matter. So come up with real drafts on the amendment of renewable energy charges, or perhaps you will also help us move negotiations with producers, you will show Parliament's will. Don't do big words here! As far as the electric excise is concerned, we'll discuss it. However, we must take into account that if we want to support poorer and harder-end families by introducing an exemption for electric excise duty, this support would fall evenly for everyone. In my opinion, common sense must be won, because we must read the money at our disposal together. Teachers' salaries need to be increased, pensions need to be increased. We have to count every penny! It is probably reasonable not to support these families by introducing a single exemption for electricity excise duties, but by granting them social benefits. I have already said that Pevkur's plan to increase the share of income support in the budget is likely to be on the table by the government in August.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U24	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. If you cannot make agreements with your coalition partner or entrepreneurs, do not blame the opposition. The opposition has come up with a constructive proposal to reduce the current electricity excise duty in Estonia four times, i.e. to the minimum permitted in the European Union. If you are unable to reduce the price increase on the second question, please accept the good proposal. My question, however, concerns your sentence that we must count every penny. Therefore, you do not feel that it makes any sense to reduce the price increase at all. On Monday, the Auditor General visited the Riigikogu and said that the company, which adds a pretty large part to each electricity bill, has not read every cent. He collects network charges from us, all consumers, in order to improve the condition of the electricity networks, but instead he has spent quite a lot of money investigating the gas market. How do you explain that studies are being carried out for the network fees paid by me and you and all people, which is not a company obligation at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U26	The preparatory work carried out by the core network company Elering on gas market issues has required relatively marginal amounts. In practical terms, the core network tariff is not even affected by nail black. Now, why do we need to deal with the gas issue? For the same reason it's a longer-term perspective. If we take these steps, we must also take into account that if we discuss the price of our electricity in five to ten years' time, the warm price, then perhaps they will say why we missed the right moment in Europe, perhaps in the global gas market. This is a far-reaching opportunity, and I think that the country is acting wisely here and in the light of the experiences of several European countries. If we go this way in any way in the gas network, we are not setting up any new business here. I can assure you that the government has not made a decision to invest in the gas economy, and if we ever have such a choice before us, we must certainly consider this very carefully in this Chamber as well. But one more comment. We currently consume 40% of electricity in the open market, 60% at regulated prices. I looked yesterday at the electricity production price on the open market, which was EUR 2 per megawatt-hour less than the regulated price. Yesterday, the price of the Estonian power exchange was 29 euros per megawatt-hour, the same price on the regulated market was 31 euros. It is one day, but it is an example that price changes in the market are very difficult to predict. What do I mean by that? I do not want to accuse you, but also call on you to submit renewable energy drafts to call on you to work in cooperation with the government to explain to people...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U27	Mr. Secretary, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U28	... what it means to open up the market for every consumer. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U29	Two minutes to answer you and one minute to ask you. Watch the time! I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Küttt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I actually had a question about income support, because you have said here in advance that, in the event of a possible increase in prices, the weakest people and those in need will be supported by income support. But you've already answered that question. I do have a difference of opinion on this, because child support, which currently takes into account in the aspect of income support, can leave the family on the line so that it does not actually receive support. Because of the child benefit, the non-recipients of the family's income support fall. But there was this strange expression in my ears. Maybe you'll explain what you meant by "dangerous thoughts"? The Social Democrats are also members of the opposition, and you said that this behaviour of the opposition makes you suspicious. What if you're so cute and explain it in two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U31	I'd love to! We are talking about the price of electricity, and we all understand that renewable energy has been one of the biggest growth components in the last four years. The Competition Authority has proven that there is a significant overcompensation here. It is not me or the government or the Prime Minister who is responsible for overcompensation, but the law adopted by the Riigikogu in 2007. You're the legislators. You will also put forward all kinds of drafts, for which you know that a responsible government has a hard to do with its best will. On renewable energy charges, I have not read any drafts. The question is, why aren't you asking me this? That's where these suspicious thoughts come from. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Why don't you? I'll give you an idea, come on, put the government on the line! We will show the producers that there is a large majority in Parliament who wants to resolve this issue, not just the Minister for the Economy, who is negotiating with producers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U32	And now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U33	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Two days ago, the Committee on Economic Affairs heard the concerns of the management of the Association of Construction Material Producers. Their biggest concern is the price of electricity, which increased by 35% after entering the free market. On the basis of the electricity price structure, they look very seriously at us as a country in terms of taxes, which has been mentioned today. You said that you wanted to do something about renewable energy, and you really have tried to do something about it, and we hope that these efforts will culminate in a good result. However, we have proposed here that the renewable energy charge should also be compensated by money for the sale of CO2 quotas, not at the expense of consumers. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U34	That's a wider question. If we want to support renewable energy so that we have an energy portfolio with environmental cleanliness in mind, the one-off investment grants that you are currently thinking of are the most expensive luxury for Estonia's national economy or budget as a whole. While the current support scheme provides for a 12-year grant, taxpayers should, in essence, table this amount once from the budget or, let's say, from the money from the quota sale, which is also the taxpayer's income. It's pretty unreal in economic terms. It is certainly more sensible if we still have a very well-tapped balance point, where consumers are not very heavily burdened and producers have a certain degree of certainty for a longer period of time. This will be cheaper for us than the solution, where we should start looking for opportunities for direct one-off investment grants. It's very expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U35	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. I understand this is a very interesting subject for everyone, but we have a lot of registered questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U36	Next is Mr Pikhof's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U37	Prime Minister! If you're talking about child support reform, you'd have been expecting something a little bit tighter than that. The EUR 10 extra money you offer to families in poverty next year a few months before the municipal elections reminds us of the purchase of votes rather than of the reform. If you had supported the Social Democrats' draft to triple child support, this would have been a man's word and families would have felt real help in raising children. Without that feeling, many middle - income families also have to give up their desire to have a second or a third child. My question is whether the real point of your so-called reform is to abolish universal family benefits at all or whether you want such a time that a parent has to go to the municipality every month, with his hat in his hand, to get 30 euros for the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U38	I'm sure we'd be willing not to triple child support, but even three hundred times if there was money coming from somewhere. We have as generous sponsors as your party does not have a state, I mean. We must therefore see how taxpayers' money can be used as efficiently as possible. The policy of the Reform Party, as you are well aware, has always been such that we want to help those who really need the help of the state. We do not think it is wise to collect money in the same way from all taxpayers and then share it equally again between all. I also do not understand your irony of need-based child support; this is nothing Estonian-specific. Let us remind you that child support is very, very much needed in many countries of the European Union. For example, in the Czech Republic, families whose income is less than 2.4 times the minimum subsistence allowance receive support, and the allowance for a child up to six years old is EUR 19. We know 19.19, or more than in the Czech Republic. Child benefit also depends on the income of family members, for example, in Iceland, Italy, Lithuania. In Lithuania, no allowance is paid if the income per family member exceeds EUR 152 and the allowance per child is EUR 15.2. Malta, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain also depend on the income of the family for the payment of child benefit in these countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U39	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U40	Thank you. Prime Minister! You yourself are right here in front of the Riigikogu, with your hands on your heart, saying that 61 euros per month cannot be handled. Growing-up children whose family lives below the living limit have to cope with 2 euros a day. At present, the state child benefit is only EUR 19 per month and, embarrassingly enough, the government considers this to be a great deal for families receiving income support. At present, the state pays income support for such families by EUR 19 less. If your promise came into effect, the income support for families in deep poverty would be reduced by EUR 30 child benefit, in other words: the income of the poorest families will not even increase by one cent. My question is: is this your conscious choice, or is it because of ignorance? Is this the family policy of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U41	Income support is paid on the basis of all family incomes and child benefit is exactly the same as salary or pension or any other income. And once again: before you start ridiculing this EUR 19, you should look at how much child benefit is paid in other countries of the European Union. I am far from the idea that with EUR 19 per month someone should live, that some children should have enough of this EUR 19. It is the income support that you have referred to that must guarantee a person a minimum of subsistence. But let us look at the amount of child allowance for other countries of the European Union: Bulgaria EUR 18, the Czech Republic EUR 19, Greece EUR 8,22, and this is what is being taken away now. You're always complaining that we're helping the rich Greeks. In the case of children, this argument is in no way valid: one child's grant of EUR 8.22 and is now being taken away. Latvia pays EUR 11.4 per child per month, Lithuania pays EUR 15.2 per child per month. And let it be said once again that no allowance is paid in Lithuania if the income per family member exceeds 152 euros. In Poland, the allowance is paid to families whose income per family member does not exceed EUR 122 per month and the allowance for children under five years is EUR 17. Slovakia has slightly more support than Estonia: the first child and each subsequent child receive 21,99 euros per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U42	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U43	Thank you. Now I've come to the house of clarity: this reform of yours is a complete scam. Those children who live in deep poverty do not get EUR 61 more of this EUR 30, but go to the income of their families. In these countries you read here, the birth rate is very low. We don't want to get there. You have made an effort to ensure that a family with two underage children would have an additional income of nearly 250 euros a year. The reform you have proposed does not provide a solution for 63000 poor children. At the same time, it must be said that this is also not a typical reform party reform, where subsidies are directed to the richest. The Socialist draft to triple child support was simply pushed under the weather, although it would help children in very many families out of poverty and send a clear message to society that every child is welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U44	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U45	What is the real purpose of your plan? Do you want to buy people for ten euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U46	It is relatively difficult to answer any of your bile and rude questions. Our goal is to pay 30 euros to the first child from 2013 and 40 euros from 2015. We would like to pay 115 euros to the third child from 2015. You could say that what this 115 is would cost a lot more than that. But this EUR 115 for a third child would be the highest support in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The biggest support! This 40 euros would also raise Estonia to the level of very wealthy countries according to the amount of child support, and we have nothing to be ashamed of when we talk about 40 euros. I wouldn't condone 10 or 20 euros. You could put yourself in the situation of people who are very welcome every 10 euros, not to mention 20 euros. There are families where EUR 20 is very helpful, not to mention those with three children and where EUR 115 for a third child is very much support. In Finland, the first child's allowance is EUR 100 per child per month. We would pay the third child 115 euros a month. Yes, I dream of becoming one of the richest countries in the European Union and we are moving that way, but we are not yet at Finnish level with our incomes in 2015, but we want to start paying child support to a third child quite well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, two issues now registered on the ground. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U48	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm asking about administration. Does the Government of the Republic have some calculations on the table of how much money the state would need to pay for child support on a need-based basis and how expensive is it to continue the current system? Would the need-based payment, including its administration, make it clear who really needs support, become more expensive for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U49	I do not see any significant increase in the cost of grants being paid on an ad hoc basis. Yes, that certainly means one-off spending: one software development must be carried out. But there will be no further large difference in amounts. According to the proposed plan, the boundary should be the limit of relative poverty. Relative poverty is internationally defined at 60% of the median wage and, in my opinion, it is relatively easy for the Ministry of Social Affairs to retrieve this data from the tax administration. This certainly does not mean going behind a cash register door every month, as Mrs Pikhof said, there are no such intentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U50	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! It is very nice that there are 27 countries in the European Union. There is always someone to compare yourself with once stronger, once weaker. If we wanted to compare Estonia with other countries, for example, in terms of HIV infection, then we are the first. But my question is, like many other questions in the Chamber, because we do not have a proper plan in this area. The Ministry of Social Affairs is still working on something. Can you tell me when it could reach the Social Affairs Committee and when in this big hall? Some of the questions would definitely fall away if there was a plan. Or is raising the issue of child support now due to the general political situation? Perhaps the interest of both the media and the public is directed away from other subjects?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U52	The Reform Party has been working in depth on child support issues at group level for the last two years. As a result, six scenarios have been developed to reduce the number of children at risk of poverty. We have now chosen one of the main scenarios, and this has been proposed as a public debate. These calculations are largely based on primary data from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs are also involved in these calculations. I very much hope that we can continue this debate in the autumn at the level of the draft law here in the Riigikogu and I believe that the reform can already be launched from 1 July next year. I am quite convinced that this reform will result in a significant reduction in the number of children at risk of poverty and poverty. Let us recall from the relatively close past how we decided to raise the crisis against pensions. It was called populism; some people were required to reduce pensions, but we could not do so under any circumstances, because 48% of people aged in retirement lived at risk of poverty and even 80% of pensioners living alone. The only possible way was to raise pensions, and it also produced good results. The number of pensioners at risk of poverty during the crisis did not increase, as expected, but decreased. It was not a coincidence, it was the result of the government's determined action.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U53	Thank you, Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister said, we will certainly continue to address this issue in the autumn. Today, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U54	Next is the question by my colleague, Priit Toobal, for Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, a brief remark for the Prime Minister. The only one who at the time insisted on lowering pensions was your party partner, Mr Unt, then Mayor of Valga. But that's it. The question for the Minister of Culture is as follows. Yesterday's National Broadcasting Council decided to bring a stop to the further development of the new building on Tuisu Street. I'm not hiding my pleasure at all in this decision. It was decided to proceed on the basis of existing real estate located in the city centre. But also the existing real estate located in the city centre needs to be renovated, a little upgrade and built up to solve space problems. The Ministry of Culture said clearly no to the new building on Tuisu Street, giving up its additional funding, but what is the position regarding investments concerning the objects located in the city centre? Of course, no calculations have been made yet, which will cost, but what is the principle position of the Ministry of Culture? Are you ready for extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U56	You have a little misconception about things. The Ministry of Culture does not say yes or yes or uhh or anything about investments concerning national broadcasting. According to the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, the financial and budgetary matters of national broadcasting are resolved by the National Broadcasting Council. I don't think it makes any sense that the national broadcasting budget goes through the Ministry of Culture's budget line. Since we have no legal possibility of influencing the activities of national broadcasting in any direction, I see no reason why the Ministry of Culture should deal with their budget, including their investment issues. So this question, a respected member of the National Broadcasting Council, has been put to yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U57	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U58	I'd still use the briefing to ask you. I can talk to myself later. There was a letter on the National Broadcasting Council's desk yesterday, in which the Chancellor of your Ministry announced that additional funding for the new national broadcasting building would not be considered possible. That is what I meant by not providing additional funding. My second question concerns cultural investments made available to local authorities. You are probably already negotiating the budget next year with the Minister of Finance. Have you discussed the extent to which cultural investments and cultural objects will be supported next year through local authorities? Is this trend in the same direction, in the same direction of growth, or rather in the direction of decline?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U59	I have already answered that question in this Chamber. The projects launched, which have been the subject of agreements with local authorities, will be completed. We don't do any new projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U60	A question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U61	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. How is ERM funding health? It's kind of quiet in the house right now. Has the government made a decision, or is this a matter of some sort? And when it comes down to it, will any investment opportunities for other cultural institutions seeking investment through cultural capital be hanged for the next ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U62	As a member of the Riigikogu, you know that in its decision, the Riigikogu has named those important cultural objects of national importance for which the money can be used. Just to remind you that these are the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the Estonian Art Museum, or Kumu and ERM. The part of the Art Museum has been paid 100%, so the money can be redirected to two places in the future. In the case of ERM, this is not a problem of lack of money at all. It is a question of bridge financing, i.e. covering the costs of this period, which lies between the last payment made to the builder and the last payment made to the builder. The government will have to discuss the distribution of investments over the next four periods. Hopefully, it'll be in the near future, and then the construction should go off.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U63	Now, please, Mr Toobal, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. On my next question, too, we have discussed with you in this Chamber before. Only casting concrete is not a cultural investment; an investment in people is also an investment. I mean, people's pay. Has it become clearer during the budget negotiations that in 2013 there are plans to increase the salaries of cultural workers who receive public funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U65	Yes, the Ministry of Culture has submitted a request to this effect to the Ministry of Finance and will be discussed after the summer economic forecast is received, which is expected to take place in August.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U66	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! This was about the national broadcasting budget, but I have this question: would it not make sense to consolidate this money into the treasury in the same way as the sickness fund and the unemployment fund's reserves? The national broadcasting budget would be well under control, and with the budget holes, would it be over?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U68	If you're aware that there are reserves on national broadcasting, tell Toobal. He's a member of the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U69	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U70	Now, the next question, please. This is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U71	Honourable Chairwoman! Prime Minister! In Estonia, unemployment among young people is 22.7%. It is 15,800 young people, i.e. the University of Tartu, young people. Registered unemployed are among the young people ca Põlva city. 60% of registered young unemployed people do not have any professional training. 31% of registered young people are unemployed with only basic education and 5% do not have it, while the rest have secondary education. Youth unemployment results in people who are discouraged without any work experience, which means both rising social costs and tax losses and emigration for the country in the future. However, the exodus of young people as a result of the search for employment usually means that we are...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U72	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U73	... lost the future taxpayer. What are government plans to help young people find a job or continue their studies in Estonia in order to learn a specialty that meets the needs of the Estonian labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U74	Good questioner! I, too, consider youth unemployment to be a major problem in Estonia. At the same time, it should be made clear that, just as unemployment in Estonia is at the average level of the European Union and the euro zone, so we also have youth unemployment at the average level of the European Union. Among young people, unemployment is higher in almost every country of the European Union than among older people. This is explained in many respects by the lack of previous work experience, and Estonia is not, to any extent, an exception to this issue among the other countries of the European Union. During the crisis, Estonia has implemented a number of additional measures to reduce youth unemployment. It is the direction of young people to learn that I consider the most important measures. We have taken steps to bring back the learning process of young people who have interrupted their studies either in the vocational education system or in the higher education system. I am convinced that this has been a measure with quite good results. Youth unemployment has usually decreased in proportion to the reduction in unemployment at all. However, foreign direct investment reduces unemployment and has come to Estonia quite significantly. Estonia has been the country with the fastest fall in unemployment in the European Union over the last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U75	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U76	Thank you. Unfortunately, if you look at the development plans of the Ministry of Education, there are no ambitious plans for the professional preparation of young people. It is still satisfied that 32% of those aged between 25 and 34 do not have any professional training. With percentages, we can play both ways, but unfortunately, it doesn't help young people. I can also read the percentages of other countries. For example, in Germany unemployment is 8% among young people, in the Netherlands 7%, in Denmark 14%. It doesn't help our young people. The Finnish Labour Minister should come up in the coming weeks with a package of measures to ensure that all young people who are unemployed can study or go to work from next year. Have you thought about studying the activities of your Finnish colleagues and perhaps even following suit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U77	I fully agree with you that a third of all employees without vocational training are too much for the Estonian economy. Like you, I am convinced that education is the best tool for reducing unemployment among young people. However, I do not want to accept these pessimistic assessments. Of course, you can compare Estonia with Germany, Denmark and other countries where unemployment is essentially non-existent, but if we do not notice the positive trends that we have seen in the economy in recent years, we can easily deviate from the right path. Let it be said once again that unemployment, as well as youth unemployment, has decreased rapidly in Estonia. Youth unemployment was frighteningly high for only two quarters, since then it has been at the European Union average level. Nothing like Spain's 50% youth unemployment! But if you look for the best solution, the solution is in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U78	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U79	Thank you. Prime Minister! Over the last ten years, Estonia's population has decreased by 75,000 and a little more. And for three basic reasons: emigration, including the exodus of young people due to job-seeking, low birth rates of over 1,100 children were born last year, although the number of women of childbearing age is higher than the average life expectancy. My question is as follows. You've been Prime Minister for the most part of your ten years, what conclusions have you drawn for yourself? Are there changes in the direction of economic policy, including labour market policy, employment policy or social policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U80	There have been constant changes and changes are not interrupted, changes are also planned for the future. Young people's emigration and emigration as a whole are certainly a problem for Estonia, but not as big a problem as opposition politicians claim. If memory doesn't deceive me, according to the census, 22000 people have migrated from Estonia in the last ten years. When comparing youth unemployment in Estonia and Finland, Finland recognises that this is a problem for them. We, too, recognise that this is a problem for us, but at first we do not have much to follow from Finland. Because in Finland, according to Eurostat, this is almost the same problem as in Estonia. In Finland, youth unemployment is 19.5%, in Estonia 22.3%, or in the same order of magnitude. If we should learn from someone, we should learn from Austria in particular the unemployment rate of young people 8.9%, the unemployment rate of young people 9.4% from the Netherlands and, of course, Germany, where this figure is 7.9%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U81	I would like to ask the question registered on the ground, Mr Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It was very nice to hear a polite and always respectful person like you make a remark to my colleague, Pikhof, about saying rudely. But my question, too, concerns youth unemployment. As a result of the long-term campaign of European social democrats, the European Union has put the issue of "youth guarantee" on the agenda at both Commission and Council level. Governments are obliged to set up a system to ensure that within 3 to 4 months of compulsory education a young person can either continue to study or find a job. This system already exists in Austria and, as we heard from Mr Palo, it will soon become operational in Finland as well. The Estonian government, in the form of the Minister of Social Affairs, has agreed in the working groups that it could be in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U83	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U84	When could Estonian young people expect the so-called 'youth guarantee' from your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U85	This pilot project of the European Union, which you are talking about, involves eight countries and these eight countries are problematic in the sense that they have an exceptionally high level of youth unemployment. In a sense, we should be saddened that we were not involved in this pilot project, on the other hand, there is reason to rejoice again that we do not have a situation as bad as it is in these eight countries of the European Union. Let's wait for the results of this pilot project. I believe that there will also be success stories in the process, where Estonia has something to take over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U86	I would now like a very brief question from Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! If we adopt the Civil Service Act, officials who had significant benefits will lose them and find themselves in a completely different situation, even though they have made appropriate preparations and maybe even donated to some political parties. They are disappointed and even enter the labour market as inventors; they have no experience of productive work; they are discouraged people. How will they be dealt with in the face of unemployment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U88	The only thing left to envy is your fantasy flight and your ingenuity. I cannot imagine the disappointed and discouraged officials who have to fight for their existence in the labour market. I consider the officials of the Estonian state to be loyal, very competent people to the state, and I am convinced that the sense of justice is no stranger to our state officials. They understand perfectly what is appropriate and what is not appropriate. Some excessive guarantees that were necessary for state officials to restore the independence of the Republic of Estonia are no longer appropriate. It should be recalled that members of the Riigikogu had special pensions at one time, and maybe their introduction was really necessary at the time, but members of the Riigikogu no longer receive special pensions since 2003. And I have not noticed that the members of the Riigikogu were discouraged by this and that people at all gave up running for office in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U89	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because our Question Time is over. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking questions. Many thanks also for replying to the Prime Minister and other members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U90	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 18th working week Wednesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U91	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make an inquiry on behalf of the Centre Party Group and also a small gift to our Minister for Education, Jaak Aavikkool, and I very much hope that Mr Aaviksoo will not read this fine book until he gets home from the hospital, because it is also a challenge for the whole person. In November, Mr Aaviksoo responded to the question of the Central Party Group, which had to do with school textbooks, in this very remote area. He was forced to admit that there were a lot of problems in this area, and promised that he would come to this hall to dissect these problems when this was allowed by the degree of processing of the problem. With this question, we would like to draw the Minister's attention to another problem. I'll get a little quote, it's a Russian textbook for the 12th grade of the Estonian gymnasium. The quotation is translated into Estonian: 'young people drugged with herbal drugs will stand out in East-Viru County. For example, in Jõhvi, where most young people do not have money to buy alcohol, cheaper stuff is used. Smell petrol and toluol, match for ecstasy tablets. /... / Finding and catching drug addicts is not easy. They're not sitting at home, they're traveling and looking for a place to shove a needle in and enjoy the rush. " In Russian, then, ukolotsja i zabõtsja. As the subject of drug addiction is devoted to a whole chapter, students can also acquire the vocabulary: plum, businessman, toroopium, herbal drug or travka, procurrenny, drunken face, pjanaja roža, etc. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister. The first concerns whether this vocabulary really increases the competitiveness of Estonian young people in the labour market. How to assess the role of this text in shaping the image of Ida-Virumaa and helping to integrate Estonian and Russian youth? And how are we going to react to these things and strengthen the Ministry's control over the content of the textbooks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U92	Thank you! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U93	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic'. It's quite short, I'll read it out: 'In order to carry out the tasks of the Eastern Police Prefecture properly and to ensure public order in the region, initiate an amendment to the law to bring down the language requirements of auxiliary police officers from level C1 to level B1. ' I would briefly remind you that some time ago the special committee on the control of the Riigikogu's state budget went to Narva in Ida-Virumaa and there all four of the members of the Riigikogu received a referral from the Narva Council, which points out the problem that 40 police officers in Ida-Virumaa have not been filled in. In Ida-Virumaa, there is even an opinion that some cases, such as the murder of this girl Varvara, could have been avoided if there were a little more patrol cars and police officers on the street. At the same time, the language problem remains, even though it has been spent enormously. There are policemen, and we think it is more important how they work than whether they speak the official language well enough. So we will make our proposal and hope that all the groups will support it in the future. This is a very urgent problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U94	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the draft complies with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide to accept it within three working days. And if an inquiry complies with this law, I will immediately forward it to the addressee. And now the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed a leading committee for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Planning Act, initiated on 11 June, Leading Commission on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated on 11 June and related amendments to other laws, Senior Committee on Social Affairs; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Economic and Monetary Union, launched on 11 June, commission of the Finance Committee; fourthly, the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code, initiated on 12 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 delegates registered as present, 12 missing. Attention, please, there is one detail on the agenda. On today's 12th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Vice-President of the Commission, Rannar Vassilyev, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U95	The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft Civil Service Act 193 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? I will start with my colleague Eiki Nestor as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable MP Gräzin! For some reason, we have come up with a concept of speech, such as optimization. They'll optimize taxes, something else. And by optimizing it, as a rule, it means that a skilled reader uses the paragraphs of the law in the way he benefits, not in the way that the legislator meant when he passed the law. One of the most optimised laws is the current Public Service Act in Estonia. Sadly, it is not the taxpayer or the tax consultant or anyone else who optimizes the paragraphs of that law, but it is the same government that has initiated, adopted and lives by the law itself. In this sense, it is clear that the Public Service Act, adopted in 1995, has fallen behind in time, but looking at how much time it has taken to get him to change, the year 2012 has already been, the fear comes upon him. Next time, this law will be amended in 2029 - 17 years from now. The current law on civil service needs to be amended and the aim is to create a modern public service in accordance with the rules of this century's labour market. There can only be two basics. The first is that we, as voters, will always be able to contact a public servant with excellent knowledge and skills to communicate with us and deal with us. Secondly, it is important that the state, as an employer, is competitive on the labour market so that it can hire good workers. Unfortunately, the draft law that is to be voted on does not fulfil this objective. It has a different objective, and it aims to save costs. In this way, we are expected to achieve a result where we will continue to resent the public service, even though the vast majority of the people there are good and hardworking, there will still be repercussions. Another consequence is that this law of public service will be "optimised" and lied to ourselves, and we cannot avoid it. The important thing about the public service is that the restriction of rights that accompany certain agencies must certainly be balanced with the guarantees given to these people. Since the purpose of this draft is different, there is no balance. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of unilaterally reducing wages, limiting the right to strike and of completely deliberately ignoring the legitimate expectation that current civil servants have with this bill. For these reasons, the Social Democratic Party Group will vote against this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U97	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. I would now like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union of Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U98	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a historic day in the Riigikogu. It is certainly impossible to compare the amendment of the Civil Service Act, for example, with the amendment of the Constitution, yet this process has been going on for more than ten years. Now it will finally end with the final vote on the draft, and it must be said that the procedure for this law so far, not the good legislative practice, is becoming the past. And that's very good. Yesterday, the people of the Committee on Legal Affairs met with the leaders of previous Commission configurations, and at that meeting Jüri Adams, former Minister of Justice and Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, said that the transitional period in Estonia ended with Riigikogu IX. What did he mean by that? He meant that by then the basic rules for a single independent country had been established in most areas. But the country is in constant development, changing the whole environment around us. Let us not go far from home, let us take our home developments and education. In the case of access to education, especially general education, there have still been talk of kilometres, but it is in the case of higher education that we need to talk more and more about access to quality education in financial terms. It's important to the IRL! Just as changes in education are essential, we must update our public service. While the Master's degree and foreign language skills were rather rare in the early 2000s, the idea of not waving the Bachelor's degree today must now be accepted by the American virulian, the CEO of Molycorp Silmet, David O'Brock, at the lunch of opinion leaders in Lääne-Viru County. I missed this lunch myself because of my participation in the court administration council, but I read about it in the local paper. Of course, not all civil servants need to have a master's degree; everything depends on the nature of the work. As the bill says, as an official, a citizen of the Republic of Estonia with at least the full capacity of secondary education can be recruited, who speaks Estonian to the extent prescribed by law or law. Then comes the second paragraph, which extends this idea. However, not all people in public service need to be officials. This change awaits some of the current Estonian officials. A transitional period is foreseen for this change. You might ask how exactly this happens in each particular case. The answer is simple: in every particular institution, the job must be done on a personal or, rather, on a job-by-job basis. The law can be framed and we must be guided by the objective that it must be broadly suitable for a multi-thousand-member organisation as well as for a small institution. Much has been said about the pay system, and it will become clearer. The basic salary is still the basic salary. In Estonia, it is customary to compare any salary with the salary of the Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia. There is no such link in the draft we are discussing today. However, it is particularly satisfying for IRL that in the new law, apart from other sections, § 100 is nice that it is precisely the number of a parent who is pregnant and who is up to 3 years old who is raising a child. Of course, the parties look at this bill differently. The Sox are concerned about the ban on strike, officials are uncertain about their fate or status. Of course, when conditions become worse than they are today, people will not be happy about it. But this law will help us to move forward with our public service as we see fit for the next ten years. Very different proposals have been taken into account in the procedure of the draft act, regardless of the party's position in Parliament. It's time to stop yammering and adopt the bill as a law! The IRL votes in favour and calls for others to do so. I would also like to thank the compromise minister for justice, Kristen Michal, who has proven to be more successful than his predecessors in the case of ATS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U99	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. I would now like to ask for the speaker's colleague, Priit Toobal, as a representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U100	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I also gave a speech on the subject at second reading of the draft law on the Civil Service Act. I then spoke at length about the good and bad aspects of the law, but in my third reading I would only mention four more important points and four reasons why the Central Party Group is voting against this draft law on public service. First of all, item No 1, which is the most important: the draft law is still very confusing and not to mention the one who will be an official in the future and who will be an employee on the basis of an employment contract. This may create an unequal situation in neighbouring municipalities: in one municipality, for example, the financial manager has the status of an official, while in the other municipality, depending on the wishes of the head of the institution, the employee on the basis of an employment contract. The exact same unequal situation can arise in different ministries. The Centre Party cannot vote in favour of such inequality. Point No 2: The new law entails implementation costs. And if this leads to implementation costs for local authorities, the State should compensate for these additional costs for local authorities. The Centre Party proposed an amendment on this subject to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, unfortunately, was not supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Point 3: The draft allows a unilateral reduction in civil servants' salaries, and this cannot be accepted by the Centre Party Group. When wages are reduced, the workload must be reduced equally, either in time or in terms of work, in terms of tasks. And point 4: if the general law on public service is to enter into force by 1 April 2013, then, for some reason, the provision on redundancy compensation should enter into force once the President has declared the law. It seems to us that the government is planning a major lay-off in the public service. Why else would redundancy benefits need to be cut faster than the entry into force of another law? For these four reasons, the Central Party Group will vote against the draft Civil Service Act. I would like to stress that the Centre Party will not vote against the reform of the public service, but will vote against the bill on the tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Now, as a representative of the Group of the Väino Linde Reform Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, What do you think is the most common start of speech here in the Riigikogu Hall? It's like, "I didn't mean to come on, but I heard it and it said it like that, I couldn't do anything different when I came here. ' In principle, as a representative of the Reform Party Group, I could say the same thing today. Our group calls for a vote in favour of the draft law on public service. We ourselves will certainly vote that way. The fact that the Civil Service Act of 1 January 1996 has lived its time and needs to be changed is certainly not in doubt in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. It is pleased that the draft has finally come to the end, and it is also pleased that it has not only been done under the dictatorship of the government or under the dictatorship of one political party, political group or minister or committee, in fact, this draft is the result of the joint work of all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu. As a result of the compromise, the bill is exactly what it is. I don't think he looks like any political group or even the government. To remind you, at second reading, we passed 180 amendments in this Chamber of Parliament, and only 40, as I recall, were those that had not been taken into account or which had been taken into account in substance. This also shows that the draft has taken into account a wide range of views and compromises that could be made. So this nearly ten-year work on the amendment of the Civil Service Act has, in our opinion, reached a very well thought-out outcome. Yeah, you can argue with some questions, for example, whether the principle of legitimate expectations could lead to a loss of the benefits of certain officials in five or four years' time. It may be disputed whether the official has a legitimate expectation that, if he takes up public service, he will be made redundant under the same conditions as were in force when he took up his duties. These things can be disputed, but the opinion of our majority and, as far as I know, of the Estonian Civil Service Lawyer has, by the way, helped us a great deal in processing this bill, so that the principles of legal certainty have been adequately taken into account. As a result, I believe that we have only one option today: to vote in favour of this draft. So one great and thorough work can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U103	Thank you very much, Mr Linde. Since all the political groups have been able to do so, I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this draft as a law, please let us do a verification of our presence. 93 delegates registered to be present, no 8. Good Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law on public service initiated by the Government of the Republic 193. Please vote! 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 36 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U104	The next item is the third reading of the draft Defence Forces Service Act 172 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Group of the Raidma Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U105	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft represents the next major step in the organisation and modernisation of the national defence area. The previous law of this kind was adopted during the previous term of the Defence Forces Order Act. The next step, or the law of the Defence League, awaits us this autumn. And it will end this process by re-writing and re-writing the Peace and Wartime National Defence Act, expected next year. The Defence Service Act regulates the performance of our national defence duty and therefore, in one way or another, affects all of us. The law regulates both the time and the active service, as well as the substitute service, the reserve training gatherings and the possibility of a new voluntary compulsory military service and, on this basis, military service. The latter also opens career opportunities for women in the service. There are many changes compared to the current law. A small selection of them. Changes concerning military service can be pointed out as expanding the circle of those released from military service. This is particularly the case with doctors and nurses, as well as those who will be educated and will play an important role in national defence after training courses in defence and field medicine. The educational requirements for military service were also changed during the discussions in the Riigikogu. Prerequisites for military service were, at least in the past, basic education, which excluded many young people who, for one reason or another, have not reached the paper on basic education. Among them, there is a lot of practical country youth who, with field technology, are you on top and on the farm of valued men, but not so far in our defence forces. Some of them have wanted to join the army. In doing so, the educational requirement was lowered, and now a six - grade education is enough. The organisation of the service of the operational staff is a special form of public service and changes therefore need to be seen in the context of the newly adopted law. The pay system has been simplified, so-called "ranking fees" have disappeared. In the course of the procedure, social guarantees were improved, the exemption for compensation in the event of the death of a military officer was restored. The biggest change in terms of reserve training was in terms of definitions. For example, the term'reservant' now relates only to the gathering and the time of the study. Farmers were granted a period of reasonable exemption from so-called re-studies for the whole of their farm work, i.e. until 1 October. The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of the draft as a law. At the same time, I would like to thank all my colleagues from all political groups who have contributed to the process. In constructive cooperation, more than 380 amendments were made to the draft, and this certainly made the law governing the defence service, or our national defence obligation, better and more uniform. Now we have a great deal of work to do to bring the new regulation, along with its new concepts, to everyone that is affected by this law in one way or another. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U106	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. As representative of the Group of the Ülo Tuliku Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, talked a lot about what I wanted to talk about. I would complement his statement with the assurance that we are very much in agreement and that there were no classic opposition or coalition disagreements in the Committee on National Defence. I was impressed by all the work that was done there. The number of amendments had already been impressive - Mati Raidma mentioned 380 amendments here - and, if you add 444 additional linguistic corrections - it actually gives an idea of how thorough the whole debate was. I would like to mention the most active actors who worked on this bill. The draft was drawn up by a working group led by large-scale frame defence forces, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, all types of troops, the Defence League and the Defence Resources Board. I would also like to stress that the active service can be taken into service even after the draft law has become law without military training, if the profession of interest can only be acquired in the Defence Forces. The draft law no longer provides for a contract for the active service, but for the appointment of a person as a member of the public service. Initially, the person is appointed for a term of up to five years, while for a continuous service of 10 years, the person is appointed for an indefinite period. Each post has requirements relating to education, training, health and physical fitness. There will be an assessment of the compliance of the peacetime office. The condition for taking up active service is the existence of a duty of defence, including female active troops. This will ensure that all deputies from the Defence Forces can be involved in the reserve service. The current law does not allow this. I also consider it very important that, once the Defence Service Act is passed, young men who do not have a basic education will also be able to undergo compulsory military service. Mati Raidma did not say the relevant number, but it is probably interesting for many: there are over 3500 young men in Estonia. My thanks also belong to the Assembly of Estonian Reserve Officers for doing the work related to this bill, who spoke very actively in the creation of the new law. I would like to thank my colleagues from the National Defence Committee, thank you to the permanent staff of the National Defence Committee, headed by Aivar Engel, but special thanks go to the chairman of the committee, Mati Raidma, who, in his personal example, showed us all how to work on a bill. It was an impressive and wonderful experience, not just for me. I think we have made a law that is not ideal, but it is certainly rational and guarantees the development of the Estonian Defence Forces and the strengthening of defence capabilities for long years. I call on you all to give your vote in favour of adopting this law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. I would now like to ask my colleague, Marianne Mikko, from the Social Democratic Party Group, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not bothering you about this issue for very long, but I do not have much to add to the men who have spoken about it. It is true that our National Defence Committee is working consensually, and therefore I will briefly repeat what both Mati Raidma and Ülo Tulik have said. The draft law on military service has been prepared for a long time and carefully examined. As we have heard, almost half a thousand amendments were proposed, which we all dealt with. Our work was long and substantial. We argued, but we left the room where we discussed matters with the Ministry of Defence and representatives of interest groups, usually with consensus. This law is an expression of our will for defence, and according to the Constitution, it is the duty of male citizens to perform military service. The Social Democrats very much welcome the new approach to military service, where young women are also given the opportunity to participate in military service. It's an opportunity, and it's voluntary. We welcome the fact that this principle of equal treatment is enshrined in the law. Personally, I am very pleased with the reduction in the required level of education in the case of military service. I believe that this is a violation of the Constitution when it is written in the law that basic education is a precondition for military service. Now the law states that boys and girls can enter military service even if they only have six classes completed. If a young man wants to go to military service, but he doesn't have a paper to prove comprehensive education, I find his fundamental right is violated. At the same time, the Social Democrats are disappointed about one thing. We are disappointed that the injured men who served in the External Action Service did not receive the social guarantees that we had in mind. We proposed a dozen improvements, but they were not taken into account either by the Commission or, of course, by the Ministry of Defence. It is a pity that our proposals have not been accepted. But we will continue to stand up for men and women at war and injured in Afghanistan. The sum total can be said that the Social Democrats are in favour of this bill and press the green button.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Mikko. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Riisalu, a colleague of the premiere, as a representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U111	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have come to this remote control if my colleagues had not started bathing in the light of what the Defence Service Act really means for the Estonian state. Indeed, I am pleased that the Committee on National Defence is probably one of the few, if not the only, committees working on the basis of political consensus. We are arguing, but we are reaching common ground. We are not opposed, neither the opposition nor the coalition, because defence is something that all political forces should understand in the same way. Estonia has done well in national defence, and when compared with our neighbours from the Baltics, Estonia is indeed happier than Latvia and Lithuania. The adoption of the Defence Service Act has a very symbolic meaning: it will give a new rest to the entire system. It must be considered as abnormal that the Commission had to propose more than 300 amendments. This shows that the Ministry came with an axe to catch the cranes, but he was opposed by a professional and well-motivated National Defence Committee, who proved that the parliamentary regime in Estonia is still in force. A number of positive nuances have already been pointed out here, which I am not going to repeat again, but I stress once again that I am very pleased that everyone understands national defence in Estonian politics in a uniform way. The Centre Party will continue this course firmly and will support all national defence-related drafts that will benefit our people. In the light of this new law, I would like to wish the Defence Forces a great deal of success and strength in implementing these changes. At the same time, using this remote control, I would like to put to the heart that reforms must not go too far. The destruction of the old system must be thought-out and motivated, and any reforms must, above all, give priority to the human, the defence forces, the frame defence forces and also the defence forces, because, unfortunately, people are a limited resource and we do not have much more of them. I would also like to thank all those colleagues who did not interrupt the law, even though they did not understand what they were talking about at times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U112	Thank you. Since all the political groups have had their say, I will conclude the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law 172 on military service initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U113	We begin the third reading of the draft Act 173 on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 173 on the implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U114	We begin the third reading of the draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, please make a check on the presence! 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 174. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U115	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Family Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the family law initiated by the Government of the Republic 214. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U116	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft Act amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport 200, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U117	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act 223 on the Amendment to the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Please, let's do the presence check! 86 delegates registered as present, 15 missing. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 223 on the amendment of the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and related amendments to other laws. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[A little applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic 224. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U119	The third reading of § 502 of the Act amending § 198 of the Health Services Management Act initiated by the Government of the Republic is now on the agenda. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending § 502 of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 198. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U120	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic 205. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U121	The next item is the second reading of Bill 222 of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to ask my colleague Yana Toomi, vice-chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U122	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft which will be taken over by...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U123	I'm sorry! Colleagues, please lower your voice!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U124	... A directive of the European Parliament and of the Council which gives self-employed persons the opportunity to pay social security for their spouses when they register as participants in the activities of the self-employed person. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 30 May, 5 June and 11 June. We also discussed the proposal by the Centre Party Group that the state pay social tax for a spouse who is involved in the activities of the self-employed party, because these advances are too much for our self-employed persons. Unfortunately, the Committee on Social Affairs did not support this proposal. Other proposals to amend this text, which we discussed in this Chamber, were purely linguistic and I will not stop at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U125	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Five proposals were made to amend this draft law. Proposal No 1 is from the Social Affairs Committee and has been fully taken into account. Proposal No 2 is submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has ignored it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U126	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U127	Yes, please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, which is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, and which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 4 and 5 have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 222 is over. Ladies and gentlemen, the President takes a five-minute break. We'll proceed at 3:02.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U128	Dear Riigikogu, the break taken by the President is over. We will proceed with the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws is to abolish the regional centres of the Tax and Customs Board, to establish a service area with a sector-specific model instead of four administrative service areas. As a result of the amendment, the workload of officials is spread more evenly across the country, creating an opportunity for better implementation of the experience and competence of officials of the Tax and Customs Board. The abolition of regional centres is due to changes in customer behaviour: 90% of those who interact with the tax administration use e-services, the E-Tax Board/e-Toll environment, which is seen as a whole by the Tax and Customs Board rather than its regional units. Communication via e-channels does not require the tax authority to be located in the same city or county as the taxpayer, but allows for sectoral communication throughout Estonia. The service points of the Tax and Customs Board will continue to be maintained in all county centres. The taxpayer is able to turn to any service point with his question, but the tax authority is obliged to provide the taxpayer with all the services at the service point closest to his place of residence or residence. The money saved in the consolidation of activities is intended to be redirected to the development and fulfilment of the basic objectives of the tax administration, as well as to increase wage competitiveness. By the time the law is enforced, we want 1 October 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U130	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague Neeme the Great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. We use different administrative models in different institutions, many institutions still have a regional distribution. Do you think that this change could in any way affect inter-agency cooperation and inter-agency coordination? And if so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U132	Thank you. Do you mean administrative reform? I think that every change affects communication, that is not the issue. But the fact that different agencies use different structures and structural models, including regional distribution, is, in my opinion, very natural, and here I do not agree with critics.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U133	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will continue with the question of Neeme the Great because, in fact, I believe that there is a problem. The tax administration has indeed developed electronic services faster than other agencies, but other agencies will hopefully catch up. There is currently a situation where there are many smaller agencies where the territorial structure remains in force. Two regional units have the National Heritage Board and the Social Insurance Board, the Language Inspectorate has three units, and there are also seven and 15 regional units. Have you not discussed in the government that the operating models of the authorities could be developed in a coordinated manner? In this case, the functioning and structure of public authorities would be more coherent and logical. We have many smaller agencies than the Tax and Customs Board, which continue to operate on a territorial basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U135	In the context of this bill, I don't remember such a debate. But there is a problem as you say. Different agencies are at different stages of their organisation. There are also those who have delayed restructuring and are not thinking about how structural changes can achieve savings in the interests of their own employees and customers. However, in order for all institutions to have a similar territorial structure and a similar governance model, this request is, in my view, clearly overstated. There's talk of some kind of sneaking administrative reform. Each institution has its own specifics, each institution has a different frequency of contact with customers, the nature of clients, etc. In any case, it is incomprehensible why these regional centres still exist. It's kind of hard for me to explain this intermediate step. The whole problem was clearly highlighted by the development of e-service, which means that the average taxpayer no longer goes to the tax administration. It's that simple, you just don't have to. Therefore, there is no need for on-site units. But there's still a chance to communicate in county centers if someone has any specific problems or who can't handle the e-service. This option remains, but regional centres are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U136	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. In the light of this draft, can we predict the same development of other agencies, which ultimately means that regional centres will disappear from the structure of other agencies as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U138	I wouldn't dare to hold myself, my ministry, my tax administration, as a strong leader. This could rather be a question for the Minister for Regional Affairs or the Prime Minister, who has a clearer responsibility in this area. I don't want to speak for the others. They have a more direct responsibility for development. But I don't rule this out. Yeah, that's a way to think. However, the fact that I am going into other administrative areas is rather not, except in the context of certain budgetary disputes. We've come up with some suggestions. In general, ministries and agencies are relatively free in their choices. No one's going to do this job for them directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U139	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to clarify the issue of the use of the services of the Tax and Customs Board. The percentage of use of electronic services is really very high, 90%, but still one in ten will come. Is there not such a situation with this new structure that, for example, the lime must go to Narva and the Tartian to get some specific advice somewhere in the direction of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U141	No, of course not. I don't think it's been before either. In this sense, examples of festival talks may not be the most successful. The county centres are so that the taxpayer can, if necessary, go to the nearby tax office. Everything you need to serve a customer is there. I do not know that there would have been a need to go to regional centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U142	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Am I right to understand that this law will improve the opportunities for businesses and citizens to communicate with the tax administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U144	A more rational structure encourages better use of resources, motivation for workers and investment, even indirectly. You will certainly not recognise when a regional authority disappears. However, in order to strictly limit the costs of governance in the context of low economic growth, if necessary, and also in order for people to raise wages in the public sector, such changes are needed. It is nice that the Riigikogu has just passed a law that allows it indirectly. The Civil Service Act provides for a kind of reform that allows better use of resources and, accordingly, more motivation for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U145	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask Mrs Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Commission on 5 June. This was presented by Egon Veermäe, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Irish Põldma, and Deputy Director General of the Tax and Customs Board. As the good Minister of Finance has already introduced, these legislative changes are needed as the Tax and Customs Board wishes to move from a regional model to a sectoral model of action. In addition to the Tax Administration Act, 17 other laws are amended, but these amendments are of a technical nature. Now some of the issues raised by the Commission. The questions concerned whether the sectoral model is better than the existing regional model and whether the current frame of expertise in different regions has been taken into account. The centres that will deal with the different fields will be scattered across Estonia in the future and asked what the principles of communication between their main centres and their offices were how it works. And another issue was raised. To date, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has based itself on the competence that currently exists in the regions and has shared these areas throughout Estonia accordingly. But what if one or the other employee had to quit for one reason or another? How is it ensured that competence is maintained in these regions? The answers were, to say the least, exhaustive. It was confirmed that competence is guaranteed through training and training, and if more complex issues arise, either the region is driven or communicated with modern communication tools. Consequently, the Commission adopted by consensus the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the first reading on 13 June, to close the first reading and to set ten working days by which amendments would be tabled, i.e. 27 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U147	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sõerd, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna ask you a question like that. As it is likely that this draft could not be closed at this session, additional time will arise. Could the Committee on Monetary Affairs not, in the framework of this draft, or more broadly, address the issue of the structure of public authorities a little more broadly? At the moment, it is true that we have different sectoral models of action, with very different territorial distributions of bodies with a territorial function model. It doesn't make any sense. Could the Committee on Monetary Affairs address this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U149	Yes, I think it might be justified to have this subject in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but since these authorities, which have been indirectly referred to here, are in different administrative areas, I can, for my part, allow here on the table that I will propose to the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that joint meetings be held either in the summer or in the autumn with all those committees that deal with the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U150	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U151	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! One question: if regional tax administrations disappear, will the number of employees in county offices remain the same, decrease or increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U152	Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to address this question to the rapporteur-general. Personally, I do not know this until the details of the reform of the Tax and Customs Board, but the explanatory memorandum says that it concerns about 20 jobs and that the majority of them are said to be vacant. The Tax and Customs Board is facing a new challenge for people whose work is affected by restructuring. What it will look like in detail is correct to ask the representative of the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U153	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 241 amendments at 4 p.m. on 27 June. First reading of Bill 241 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U154	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary fee law and the law amending the Civil Status Act 219. Minister of Justice Kristen Michal of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U155	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Once again, this is a very good bill. Given that the day has been long and this is the last point, I will be brief this time. The purpose of the draft before you is to create the prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register for the introduction of electronic registers and files and for facilitating access to the data entered in the matrimonial property register. In addition, the procedure for informing the matrimonial property register of the property they have chosen when they are married to the draft in question is simplified, with the aim of reducing the workload of civil status officers. First of all, I will be very brief about what this matrimonial property register is in case no one knows. The matrimonial property register is one of the country's main registers, which records the property relationships chosen by the spouses, their alteration and termination. A matrimonial property relationship can be determined either as a unit of property, as a set-off for an increase in an asset or as a solution for an asset. In the case of a merger of assets, the assets belong to both parties in equal parts and most of the transactions must be carried out jointly. The set-off of an asset gain will give the spouses greater financial autonomy, while giving the economically weaker spouse clear guarantees, such as the protection of the family's common home. In the case of asset separation, the two parties are completely independent from each other in the material sense, there are no common rights to the asset, and the consent of the other spouse is not required when dealing with the asset. An entry in the matrimonial property register shall be made when the ratio of the set-off of an increase in an asset or of the asset separation is chosen or when the spouses enter into a matrimonial property agreement. The matrimonial property register is currently kept on paper and the processing of applications submitted is therefore time-consuming. The printing of the registration card is also uncomfortable and the volume of the paper archive is increasing. You must now contact the Real Estate Department for access to the matrimonial property register, and the data entered on the register card cannot be consulted using the web solution. Since the entry into force of the new Family Act on 1 June 2010, the number of entries in the matrimonial property register has increased considerably. Many marriage mates use the option of choosing an asset relationship that is already entered in the matrimonial property register when they are married. For example, in 2005, 504 entries were entered in the register, while in 2010 there were 1555 entries already. Last year the number of entries increased to 2507 and this is already a major increase in administrative burden. From this point of view, the Ministry of Justice considers it reasonable to make this register, which has so far been kept in paper form, electronic in order to reduce the administrative burden and to facilitate access to the data entered in the matrimonial property register. The adoption of the Bill as a law will create prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register in order to make the data entered there more accessible to persons. A person can still contact the Real Estate Department for access to the data entered in the matrimonial property register, but there are additional possibilities to use the website or contact a notary. Access to the matrimonial property register is free of charge in the detention department and through the website, and you must pay the notary fee when you contact a notary. The processing of submitted applications should also become faster thanks to the use of procedural software: applications will be reviewed in 14 days instead of 30 days. That's all for short. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U156	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. You have a question. Colleagues Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U157	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We also have marriages in an electronic register. Can't we go a little further from here so that our ancestors' marriages can also be registered electronically? Then you don't have to search the data on the page, but if you put what you want in the search engine, you'll get your family tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U158	Such family tree production programs are already available as free software, so it is up to everyone to decide how they study their family tree. However, if there is a desire to discuss this issue during the procedure on this draft, we can do so both in the summer and in the autumn in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U159	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Kabritsa, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U160	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law at its meeting on 4 June, with the participation of the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, the Minister's advisor Madis Timpson and the Adviser to the Ministry of Justice's Office for Legislative and Development Piret Saartee. The members of the committee were briefed on the state of play of the procedure in draft 219 and then answered questions put by the members of the committee. Since the Minister of Justice has already presented the draft very properly, I will not repeat its contents. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 June, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 27 June. It was decided to appoint Mr Kabrits as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-13_U161	Thank you very much. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the tabling of amendments to draft 219 at 4 p.m. on 27 June. The first reading of Bill 219 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 3.26 p.m.
