ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 16th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of all five members of the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu, I have the draft law supplementing the Penal Code. This draft complements the existing Penal Code with a provision criminalising the acceptance of anonymous, hidden or legal donations to a party. The draft measure restores § 4022 of the Penal Code, which was in force before 1 April 2011. The purpose of the draft is to supplement the regulation of the Penal Code so that there is a clear penalty for the acceptance of prohibited donations to political parties. While § 4021 of the Penal Code provides for a form of criminalisation of the party's economic activities and property, in view of the suspicions that the ban on donations to political parties has been violated, there is a need to provide for a separate formation of crime: a violation of the ban on accepting donations to political parties. This composition criminalises the acceptance of anonymous, hidden or legal donations made to a party. This will provide a clearer ground for criminal prosecution if there is a suspicion that illegal donations have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U3	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I and a number of other members of the Central Party Group have a question to be submitted to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. It deals with excessive alcohol consumption in Estonia. The World Health Organisation has set a target that in 2015, alcohol consumption in any country should not exceed six litres of pure alcohol per capita per year and should be close to zero for those under 15 years of age. In countries with high levels of alcohol consumption, intervention at the level of the population is considered to be the most cost-effective and evidence-based strategy, such as higher tax rates, banning alcohol advertising, reducing access to alcohol and random blowing checks by drivers. In view of the fact that, according to Emor's latest research, Estonians drank 11% more alcohol and drink considerably more alcohol than the WHO wanted, and that it is also consumed more than our closest neighbours, we have five questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U5	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hand over the form and report of the final report of the Committee on Inquiry on Residence Permits. First of all, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee of Inquiry, especially the advisers Tiina Ojasalu and Piret Luhacode, who have done a very good job. From 13 February to 31 May, 16 meetings were held and 21 persons were heard. On the basis of our statements, two cases were initiated on 8 March and 10 May 2012, procedures are currently under way. In conclusion, the combination of several factors, including inadequate regulation, shortcomings in supervision and late and insufficient response by authorities to the false authorities, led to the misuse of residence permits. The Commission did not find that Siim Kabrits was involved in the provision of services relating to residence permits, nor did it find that it was aware of the provision of these services. What were the Commission's proposals? Cooperation between authorities needs to be improved in order to find a quick and appropriate solution to the problems encountered at the points of contact between the various agencies. Officials must be encouraged to talk about problems early, without fear of condemnation or accusations. Stakeholders need to be more involved in making decisions concerning them. The legislative process must be transparent and understandable. It is worth considering regulation of lobbying. Migration legislation must take into account the needs of different sectors, including education, the economy and internal security. A cross-ministerial migration strategy needs to be considered. Migration mathematics must also be discussed in the Riigikogu. The powers of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-corruption Act must be extended to enable the Commission to act more effectively, explaining whether there are conflicts of interest in the activities of members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, they will be processed in accordance with the Act. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 30 May 2004, the following members of the Government will attend Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 85 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U8	We are going to address today's agenda items. Ladies and gentlemen, today's first item is Eesti Pank's annual report for 2011. The rapporteur is Andres Lipstok, Governor of Eesti Pank. I would like to remind you that every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question. Only the representatives of the political groups take part in the negotiations. Please, Governor of Eesti Pank Andres Lipstok!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you today the summary of Eesti Pank's first euro year. I will start my presentation with a brief overview of Eesti Pank's activities in 2011. I will then focus on the economic and monetary policy of the euro area, the development of the Estonian economy and the activities of the central bank in the context of the financial crisis in the euro area. First of all, Eesti Pank since 2011. It was hard work for Eesti Pank. First of all, all the work that the central bank had to do by exchanging currency for another had to be completed. Secondly, the introduction of the euro brought new challenges and, of course, greater responsibility. As an equal partner, Eesti Pank started to participate in monetary policy decisions affecting the euro area as a whole. Together with other central banks in the euro area, our main task is to contribute to maintaining price stability in the euro area. This means keeping the growth in consumer prices in the euro area as a whole at just below 2% per year in the medium term. Since the beginning of 2011, I am speaking as Governor of Eesti Pank in decisions that concern not only Estonian residents but more than 300 million people in the euro area. Thirdly, most of Eesti Pank's activities to date had to be continued: to supply cash to the country, to maintain payment systems, to contribute to financial stability, to collect statistics and to analyse the Estonian economy and the financial system. The changeover to the euro was a great recognition for a small Estonia, but also a great challenge. The euro came into use smoothly in Estonia. The smooth transition required effort from society as a whole, from residents and retailers as well as from businesses and banks. Everyone succeeded in the same way. The design of the euro area's 2011 monetary policy was difficult. The first and second half of the year were very different in the euro area economy. Both the global and euro area economies continued to recover at the beginning of the year, although the growth rate was slower than before. Prices of oil and other commodities rose, liquidity was high and pressure on euro area prices increased. In order to maintain price stability, we decided to increase monetary policy interest rates in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, and we did so in April and July. The situation changed in the second half of 2011 and global growth started to be hampered by a decrease in overall confidence and increased uncertainty in financial markets. This was because market participants were concerned about the development of a number of euro area public finances. Changes in the economic environment were accompanied by a sharp decrease in consumer and business confidence in August. While companies were cautiously optimistic in the first half of the year, investment and recruitment decisions began to be postponed from summer onwards due to increasing uncertainty. The slowdown in economic growth due to general uncertainty reduced inflationary pressures. This is why the Governing Council of the European Central Bank reduced interest rates to the lowest ever in November and December. Under normal circumstances, only a change in interest rates would be sufficient to influence prices and economic activity. However, the crisis proved to be so extensive that the effects of monetary policy transmission mechanisms were disrupted and the ability of commercial banks to lend to companies and households was significantly reduced. This is why we took a number of exceptional measures since August 2011: we supported the bond market in order to prevent the banking activities from being paralyzed; we continued to offer unlimited liquidity loans to banks; we provided banks with three-year loans on very favourable terms; we extended the amount of collateral suitable for applying for liquidity loans and, at the end of last year, we reduced the minimum reserve ratio from 2% to 1%. Looking back, consumer price growth in the euro area was faster than in the whole year and reached 2.7%. Inflation accelerated mainly due to increases in commodity prices. This is confirmed by a core inflation index below 1.5%, which means that the consumer basket increased so much without food and energy prices. Further inflation expectations are in line with our long-term inflation target. The emergency measures taken by the central bank were bold but necessary. However, these steps also have a cost. Risks in central banks' balance sheets have increased. Risk analysis and buffer building will need to be addressed more seriously in the coming years. Also, Eesti Pank, which has just completed the first year as a member of the euro area and whose equity ratio to monetary policy assets is one of the lowest in comparison with the central banks of the euro area, needs to be more closely addressed in raising it and creating guarantees. In this context, it should be borne in mind that the income and expenditure of monetary policy operations within the Eurosystem is shared jointly, according to the participation of each individual central bank in the capital. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank therefore decided to take the reserve ratio of the central bank to risk assets at a level comparable to the average of the central banks of the euro area in the longer term. The level of equity of Eesti Pank as compared to the Eurosystem must increase as much as Eesti Pank's participation in the Eurosystem. This means that the central bank's equity capital has to increase from EUR 0.37 billion to around EUR 1.3 billion. At present, Eesti Pank's equity capital is 0.07% of the total capital of the Eurosystem, while Eesti Pank's participation in the Eurosystem is 0.26%. Overcoming the euro area from the debt crisis does not depend solely on central banks. This requires that national governments implement as soon as possible the measures and agreements approved by the European Council and the Heads of State or Government of the euro area. Closer economic policy cooperation and a functioning and clear set of rules are in the interests of all of us. While the necessary adjustment of budgets may hamper economic growth in the near future, it will contribute to the sustainability of public finances and thus to the reduction of government bond risk premiums. The growth in the debt burden must be halted and a framework should be set up to support markets' confidence in the sustainability of public finances in the euro area. This is a common interest for all euro area countries. In addition to crisis response measures, attention needs to be paid to creating a stable growth area in the longer term. Structural reforms to enhance the economy's flexibility, competitiveness and employment will need to be addressed for the sake of growth capacity. The main objective of the Eurosystem central banks, including Eesti Pank, is to maintain more general price stability in the euro area in this situation. This is the best that monetary policy can do and what the central bank can do to boost growth and create jobs. Fortunately, in 2011, Estonia, unlike several other euro area countries, did not have to deal with the local crisis. The Estonian economy showed considerable adaptability in a generally uncertain environment last year. Overall, economic growth in the euro area grew faster and reached 7.6%. The economic development was much more balanced than before the crisis: the current account was in moderate surplus and domestic price pressure was contained. However, it had to be said again that food and energy prices affect the cost of our consumer basket more than in the old Member States of the euro area, so the increase in consumer prices accelerated to 5% in Estonia. Compared to the European Union average, Estonia's public finances are still in a strong position. During the crisis, we proved that we could quickly improve the budgetary balance in an emergency. Now is a good time to think about how to regulate conduct in good times. We have a medium-term framework for budgetary policy in the form of a national fiscal strategy for a long time. However, it is not clear how binding this document is when making specific decisions. For example, the budget strategy completed in spring 2011 set the objective of restoring the surplus of the consolidated budget in 2013. However, this target has been delayed in 2012. This raises concerns and shows that the current framework allows the long-term objectives to be changed too easily. Secondly, it does not provide a clear answer to the question of how to curb expenditure growth in good times. It is therefore appropriate to establish, in addition to the rules ensuring balance, rules restricting the growth of spending. They would reduce the volatility of expenditure growth, help prevent unjustified expectations and make cuts, if necessary, less painful. At the beginning of 2012, the Heads of State or Government of the euro area decided to launch the European Stability Mechanism earlier than planned. Eesti Pank has repeatedly emphasised in its relations with the public that central banks are being pushed into foreign roles. It is appropriate to transfer the foreign functions of the central banks of the euro area to the European Stability Mechanism. It has two advantages. Firstly, it is possible to shape the economic policy of the beneficiary country in the desired direction by laying down the conditions under which the aid may be granted. However, any monetary policy measures, as we know, cannot eliminate the causes of the debt crisis. Secondly, in this case, the control of crisis measures by national governments and parliaments will increase significantly and the cost of crisis measures will be improved. The right decisions can be made when you know what is happening in the economy. It is not only in our interest to monitor our own actions, but also the development plans and targets of other euro area countries (not only Greece or Portugal). The European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) still has the good qualities for which the Community was established in its own time. It is now necessary to make economic and monetary union work better, more secure and safer for the benefit of all of us. Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! To conclude my presentation today, I would like to thank you for your seven-year cooperation. Thank you for receiving and considering the messages from Eesti Pank. For its part, Eesti Pank has always provided you with its best knowledge. I hope that constructive cooperation between the Riigikogu and Eesti Pank will continue in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U10	Thank you very much to the Governor of Eesti Pank! We'll get to the questions. Please, first question, Taavi Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Bank. You were with this presentation yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where we had the opportunity to ask quite detailed questions, for example, about monetary policy. But today I ask what may be of greater interest to the wider public. I'm asking about the ESM decision-making process in an urgent procedure. The Commission also raised the issue that, even in the case of a fast-track decision, it is an absolute prerequisite for the decision to be required or accepted by the European Central Bank and the European Commission. As far as I am aware, the European Central Bank in turn has a consensus decision that requires the approval of either you or your successor. Am I right that in all these fast-track decisions, Estonians also have the right to veto?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U12	Thank you. More broadly, the urgency procedure for the ESM is indeed the procedure in which the European Central Bank's negative or affirmative position is also required to take a decision. Of course, it is such an important decision that the European Central Bank can only give a position at its Council level. The Governing Council shall be composed of the Governors of the 17 national central banks of the euro area Member States, plus the members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank. These decisions are usually taken in a consensual manner. In any case, if this topic should come up, the hand should also rise from the table that has the label 'Estonia' in front of it. During the days that I have remained in office, there is probably no reason to create such situations, but if there is ever a vote, then there must be an Estonian vote. Of course, the decisions are independent and the euro area as a whole is being looked at, but in order for this thing to start, the hands of Estonia must also be standing up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U13	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! As you said, for seven years you have worked with all the institutions of the Estonian state. How about we look at these seven years in this or last year's context? What is left of the heart and soul besides the euro, what joy or concern would you like to share with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U15	Thank you. The subject of my presentation is Eesti Pank's annual report for 2011. Of course, given that my term of office is over, I have quite a lot of awareness and thought through the questions you have just asked. I have also presented them to the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and to the good employees of Eesti Pank, for example. But I don't think the timeline allows for this whole period right now. Of course, the last thing I remember most. The introduction of the euro and its enforcement of the criteria that preceded the positive decisions were very difficult tasks. It's a lot to talk about, it's history, and it's really interesting. I would still limit myself to the euro. Of course, we can talk about the economic crisis, we can talk about the fact that Estonia came out of it relatively well. There was certainly a very large proportion of all those who make decisions for Estonia: you in this Chamber, your predecessors in this Chamber, the members of the government, whatever form these coalitions have been put together in the last twenty years, and, of course, Eesti Pank. Thinking about these seven years and also considering the experience of sitting in this Chamber, I would bow down to all the institutions I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U16	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! You said that Eesti Pank's equity ratio to assets is very low, which is one of the lowest of 0.07%. But what is this on average for the euro area central banks and what are the euro area central banks where the equity ratio to assets is very high?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U18	Thank you. I don't have this table in my head, so I can't point out one by one the ratio of the equity of one or another bank to the assets. It's not a secret, it's a completely public table, and we'll definitely send you that table. Larger and longer-term equity banks are at the forefront, as are those whose regulation for equity is slightly different (e.g. Germany, Austria, France). But I'm not gonna fantasize, I might be wrong. Malta, for example, is behind us. It's very important. Of course, we have done quite well now, we have not had the obligations arising from joint operations and we can not yet have them, and I very much hope that they will not come. But in order for us to be able to manage our affairs normally in the future, capital must be brought to an average level. This has been discussed in the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The strategy that I presented has been approved by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Of course, you can always say, and that is what the Minister in the Board of Eesti Pank said, that this leap must be very big. If trouble arises quickly, they will come to the government and the Riigikogu to ask for help, so that what is being raised now is better transferred money to the budget. We don't really think so, we're sticking to this 25% limit. With what's over there, you can increase your equity and not come to you asking for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U19	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you very much for this presentation and, of course, thank you very much for your very balanced and good work as Governor of Eesti Pank. I ask you in the context of 2011, but also in retrospect: if you now leave the office of Governor of Eesti Pank, what is your recommendation, as a highly competent monetary and economic person, or a message to the Riigikogu, today and tomorrow's decision-makers, that Estonian public finances will continue to remain in good health?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U21	Thank you. We have consistently delivered these messages to the government, in particular, within the framework of our mandate. One message I also described in my report was about revenue and expenditure. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the framework for spending in good times. After all, it is so human: if money is still well received, why not start doing all the good things right now? But history has shown on other countries, and also on our own country, that if it does not end disastrously, it will, unfortunately, end very badly. So it is important to continue soberly and rationally, which in fact has, to a greater or lesser extent, characterised both the government and the decision-makers, i.e. the Riigikogu so far. If this line is maintained, there should be no major surprises on the side of domestic finance and economic organisation. Of course, you can talk about taxes for a long time, but I don't have a mandate for that. On this subject, I could discuss simply as a person who learned about finance and was very interested in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U22	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U23	Thank you. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you for your presentation. I come back to what I asked you about yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The subject is a tax on financial transactions. In particular, the European Parliament has already adopted such an ambitious plan and approved the tax rates proposed by the European Commission for securities, shares and derivatives. Recent surveys show that 66% of those surveyed in the European Union support the introduction of this tax. The rapporteur, Ms Podimata, has said that the FTT is an integral part of the exit from the crisis, so that the burden of the crisis is shared fairly. The deadline for Member States to adopt the necessary legislation for this purpose shall be 31 December 2013. Estonia has not yet discussed this issue. Could Eesti Pank be the carrier of this topic and could we discuss this issue in the Riigikogu in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U24	Thank you. The question was whether Eesti Pank could be the subject carrier. The answer is no. Eesti Pank could not and should not be the carrier of this topic. The government of the Republic of Estonia, which should bring this draft before you, should still be the carrier of this topic at national level. Certainly, if this bill is reached in Estonia, Eesti Pank will be ready and obliged to give its opinion on this bill. Since there is no draft today, our information on what has happened in Europe is exactly what you referred to. In other words, today we do not have any documents on which to form an opinion. Therefore, I would not say no or yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U25	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of Eesti Pank, I, too, thank you for this presentation. Your cooperation with the Riigikogu has been very sympathetic, except that you come here every year, but the members of the Riigikogu have not asked you a lot of questions and maybe they have not been able to take advantage of this possibility of cooperation. My question to you at this very moment, when you stop acting in this capacity, is: what recommendation would you give to members of the Riigikogu for better cooperation with Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U27	Thank you, Esther! I think that from my point of view, cooperation with the Riigikogu has been very effective. How effective, it's hard for me to say. I think I would give the Riigikogu the same suggestion: keep the same line. It is true that there have been few enquiries and these enquiries may not always have been relevant to the financial day. There could be more to explain a few things, so you'd know more about the president of the bank. But I am certainly grateful to you that you have not brought me into the day's politics by asking questions. Even if there's been some kind of bullshit where you could have scored with the position of the bank president, you haven't. Thank you again for that! This has given me the opportunity to maintain this "independence" line, which, by the way, is being assessed, measured and monitored in Frankfurt. We have a mandate on how we need to communicate with parliaments and governments. This is an advisory mandate, not an intervention mandate. But if the question was such that you couldn't do it without intervention, then the inquisitor would probably not be satisfied with a different answer and the respondent would also be uncomfortable to respond a little round from this speaker. Thank you for not putting me in this fork! I beg you, don't fuck Ardo either! Then it's going to be okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U28	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I also thank you for your meaningful presentation! As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I was already able to ask most of the questions in the committee. I will come back once to the role of central banks in providing possible liquidity assistance to commercial banks. I would like to know this in the context of 2011. What are the conditions under which central banks are lending to commercial banks now? How much is this volume now, what role does the central bank play in Estonia, and has Eesti Pank also issued loans to commercial banks on the territory of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U30	Thank you. This lending, which you are asking about, is probably part of the extraordinary measures that the European Central Bank presented at the beginning of this year. These measures are primarily intended for those banks that, for one reason or another, have wanted to strengthen their liquidity buffer. Today it is not quite certain whether this trillion euros or a little more, which has been distributed to banks, has reached the real economy. Well, there's no statistics on it, it's a little early. But, of course, it is clear that the banks that have taken this money are better capitalised and probably more reliable in the market. If they start lending, in other words, when that money gets into the real economy, they're gonna have a little cooler resources. Eesti Pank has, of course, participated in these decisions at the level of the European Central Bank. Eesti Pank has not directly provided this assistance to our large banks. But I'm stuttering a little bit because I think a small bank has asked for this help once and for all. But here's the same thing as before: I don't want to speculate on numbers and names. I'm sorry! I can't tell you by heart, but I'm sure we'll let you know in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U31	Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U32	Thank you. Many thanks to the Head of Eesti Pank for a good presentation and even more thanks for the seven-year work, especially for the very successful conduct of the euro project! My question concerns Eesti Pank's assets and staff, which have been the subject of public discussion. More specifically, I'm asking about Maardu Manor. What is your personal opinion, as the outgoing Governor of Eesti Pank, now that you are free of all duties and stress? Could Maardu manor be given to the Office of the President of the Republic, for example, in the administrative field of Eesti Pank, so that it can become a truly dignified and solid residence of the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U33	Thank you for that question. At different times, this real estate issue has grown up for different activities and also for various reasons. Eesti Pank has once bought Maardu Manor. It happened a long time ago, much, much before my time, I don't even know if it was during the Otsason or Kallas. Eesti Pank has invested quite a lot in it to keep the house more or less in good condition. It's definitely not a top-touch mansion, but there's not much to blame for. Here's the first answer: no, we can't hand it over for free. If anyone wants it from us, we have to sell it to him. We have assessed the property, or rather, we have evaluated the manor; it is not even a property that makes it even more difficult. We have asked for an opinion from the Office of the President of the Republic as well as from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example. I think that even before we were able to formulate the question correctly, the answer was no. It's still about the money. Of course, the main activity of Eesti Pank is not related to the manor. Once this manor has come to us, and since we think it's our business to keep our property in order, we've done it. If there were any solution that would benefit the State and a common understanding, this process could be possible in terms of purchase and sale rather than giving. No one should have any doubts here. But today it's not on the other side. That's why we're trying to keep this mansion nice. I think that many of the people in this hall have used this manor either through different organisations or personally. It has been possible for everyone who has wanted to use this manor: the Office of the President of the Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Estonian Television, all kinds of filmmakers, wedding and birthday keepers, anyone. I'm not going to say with a loud voice who might be potential buyers if you just put this mansion on the market, for example, at the auction. I don't think it's in anyone's best interest. So we are ready to maintain and maintain this manor, and if there is any good idea of how it can be used better and more efficiently, I will say once again that keeping the manor is not the task of Eesti Pank, then we are always ready to talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U34	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much to the Governor of Eesti Pank Andres Lipstok for both the presentation and the seven-year fruitful cooperation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U35	Thank you. Once again, thank you for understanding, success, and any attitude in seven years! Thanks! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U36	I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Sõerdi to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak for very long because the Governor of Eesti Pank made a very thorough and informative presentation. But really, we can discuss the Eesti Pank report today, which covers Estonia's first year as a full member of the euro area. Estonia is now a fully-fledged member of the monetary policy decisions of the euro area as a whole and Eesti Pank's role in the joint activities of central banks is very large compared to the previous one. Of course, the full membership of the euro area brought numerous new tasks to Eesti Pank in the field of monetary policy. The report describes the technical introduction of the euro. It is a pleasure to note that Estonia's transition was smooth. As the analysis presented in the report shows, the impact of the introduction of the euro on price stability remained within the projected limits. As a whole, 2011 was marked by rapid growth in economic activity, as well as employment growth and a rapid fall in unemployment. At the same time, we saw a slowdown in growth in the second half of the year, due to the increased uncertainty in the external environment. After the last global economic crisis, the debt crisis broke out in spring 2010. Unfortunately, the rapidly established stability mechanism and the efforts of the governments of the countries at the heart of the debt crisis in 2011 did not bring a solution to the crisis. Rather, we saw the debt crisis in the euro area exacerbated. The European Central Bank was forced to continue with emergency monetary policy measures to ensure the stability of the financial system. The Eurosystem provided banks with large amounts of fixed-rate loans in 2011. In order to ensure the functioning and liquidity of tight government bonds, the Eurosystem central banks intervened in the sovereign bond market by purchasing sovereign bonds under pressure from financial markets. As a result of central bank bond programmes, the programme increased by EUR 75 billion by the end of 2011 to EUR 211.5 billion. Although the risks to price stability stemming from increased money supply were assessed as low in 2011, inflation, in combination with other global factors, was unfortunately significantly higher than the 2% target previously set. Emergency measures which may jeopardise price stability and the fundamental objective must remain one-off and temporary, as the Head of the European Central Bank promised when he took office. The rules governing the functioning of the euro area do not even indirectly allow Member States' budgets to be supported or financed. This must guide the European Central Bank in planning further measures and countering the effects of the debt crisis. The debt crisis can still be resolved by Member State governments, implementing both budgets, consolidation measures and expenditure restraint and structural changes to create assumptions for growth. The state of public finances must be the responsibility of the Member States themselves; it is not necessary to rely on exceptional measures by the central bank. In addition to the task of ensuring price stability for the Eurosystem as a whole, Eesti Pank also has a very important role to play in advising the government about which the Governor of the Bank told us. The planners of the state's budget strategy and annual budgets must take into account Eesti Pank's proposals stemming from the bank's economic forecast and the conclusions of the bank's monitoring activities. It is important to agree with the President's proposal that it is necessary to stick to the time limits for the restoration of reserves set out in the current and previous budgetary strategies, which in turn requires the budget surplus to be reached as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U38	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Kallov Kallo Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U39	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 Annual Report of Eesti Pank, discussed here today, is certainly different from all the reports discussed in previous years. For the first year, Estonia was a member of the euro area and Eesti Pank was a full member of the European Central Bank. This was the first year that the Governor of Eesti Pank took part in all decisions concerning the Eurosystem as a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. There are equal partners at the same table, as one small one can even be the same as the big one. The joint implementation of the Eurosystem's decisions in Estonia is now the responsibility of Eesti Pank. In the past, Eesti Pank's main task was to maintain price stability in Estonia, but now the main task is to contribute to maintaining price stability in the euro area. From time to time, there are statements, especially in the press, that since we are now part of the European Central Bank and decisions are taken by the European Central Bank anyway, we no longer need so many employees in our central bank. A much smaller number of people who would only mediate orders and orders from Europe would suffice. Unfortunately, this is a very simplified and inadequate understanding. Decisions are not taken from scratch, decisions are preceded by in-depth analyses of a wide range of working groups. Now our central bank representatives have the opportunity to participate in all these working groups, to say the word and to direct the decisions they make. If we wanted to have a say in all areas, the composition of Eesti Pank should perhaps be two or more times larger, which is certainly not feasible for a small country. We can't keep up here with the big ones. Here comes an important task for Eesti Pank in the new situation. It is up to us to decide in which areas we can also provide our know-how and where we feel confident, and to focus on these areas. In other areas that we are not actively able to cover, only the exchange of information is likely to have to be limited. The next extremely important change is that euro area central banks have additional credit risk, which is primarily linked to monetary policy operations. In the euro area, revenue and expenditure relating to monetary policy operations shall be shared in proportion to the share of the euro area central banks in the balance sheet of the European Central Bank. The share of Eesti Pank is known to be 0.26%. It can be said that the risks of Eesti Pank are also increasing as the financial crisis deepens in the euro area. Consequently, capital and reserve capital are of particular importance. Unfortunately, the share of equity, compared with the share of the national central banks' equity in the total capital of the Eurosystem, is the fourth, not the last, but still at the back. If we come specifically to the 2011 annual report, we can see that Eesti Pank's profit for the financial year 2011 amounted to 22.7 million euros. In view of the above, it would have been logical and reasonable to channel all profits into the bank's reserves. Unfortunately, it was decided to channel 25% of this into the state budget, i.e. EUR 5.7 million. This decision seems particularly unreasonable, recalling that in this Chamber yesterday the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance answered the questions, and we heard again more than once that the monetary affairs of the Estonian state are in the best condition and that our economic growth is the fastest among European countries both this year and next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U40	Would you like some extra time? Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U41	Also, if extra money is needed for ESM contributions, we will find it in reserves without any problems. It is certainly not less important that the two Vice-Presidents of Eesti Pank changed during the reporting period. As usual, this process seemed painful to some during the process phase and caused sharp statements from high - esteemed dignitaries from outside the bank. Now everyone is happy and happy, because the exchange certainly brought fresh winds to Eesti Pank. I would also like to wish new managers the determination and will to defend the Bank's positions more vigorously on reserve capital issues, so that one of the priorities of Eesti Pank cannot be called into question for a moment. Namely, the Governor of Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank are independent in their activities and must not receive orders or instructions from the government or other non-bank interest groups in carrying out their statutory tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U42	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The report has been heard and the debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U43	The second item is the Annual Report 2011 of the Financial Supervision Authority. The rapporteur is Raul Malmstein, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. Members of the Riigikogu are now also able to ask a question. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Board!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U44	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! Let me start with the fact that, at the beginning of this year, the Financial Supervision Authority celebrated its tenth year of operation. We are pleased to note that, although these ten years have not been easy, we have so far been able to monitor the financial markets and market participants in Estonia so that the state, or taxpayers, has not had to spend a cent to support the Estonian financial sector. This is certainly a significant result in very difficult market conditions in recent years. It is also a pleasure to note that market participants appreciate our professionalism. More and more financial sector companies operating in the Baltic countries have chosen Estonia as their home country and are now operating in other Baltic countries through their branches. This trend is particularly clear in the insurance sector. Last year, 2011 was a very difficult year for financial markets. Long-term fiscal problems in several euro-zone countries led to a loss of confidence in financial markets in the ability of countries to serve their debt obligations. Political steps have been taken to overcome the current crisis, leading to the change of governments and Heads of State in a number of European countries, as well as financial economic measures. Although the collapse of the euro area and the deterioration of the euro area currency have so far been prevented, the situation in the money markets remains a source of concern. The internal political stalemate following the Greek elections and concerns about possible new elections and the rapid escalation of problems in the Spanish banking sector have only increased market uncertainty. In spring 2011, the European Banking Authority (EBA) carried out a strong analysis of the 90 largest banking groups in Europe, which showed that, although banks had managed to increase their capital buffers by EUR 50 billion before the stress test, eight banking groups had problems meeting agreed capital buffers and 16 banking groups were very close to meeting minimum requirements in this respect. On the basis of the results of the stress analysis, EBA issued clear recommendations to national banking supervisors to strengthen bank capital buffers, inter alia by limiting potential dividend distributions and requiring deleveraging and additional capital to be mobilised where possible. Scandinavian banking groups operating on the Estonian market successfully carried out the stress analysis and thus the credibility of the Estonian banking sector remains high. One of the most important milestones of last year was the substantial start-up of the work of the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA). For all three institutions, this first year had a number of difficult tasks. It was necessary to organise both the development of new European regulations, where all three supervisors have an important consultative role for the European Commission, as well as to ensure uniform technical implementation of existing regulations throughout the EU internal market and cooperation with global financial market regulators. In addition, the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) started work with the European Central Bank. The Financial Supervision Authority is actively involved in the work of these bodies, with the member of the Board Kaido Tropp acting as Deputy Head of the Permanent Working Group of EIOPA on Information Technology and Reporting, and I myself am a member of the Management Board of ESMA. It should be stressed that the implementation of the new pan-European supervisory framework will significantly increase the role of these supervisory authorities in the development and uniform implementation of new pan-European regulations. In the case of ESMA, it is also important to note the receipt of a federal supervisory mandate for credit rating agencies operating in the European Union. As regards the ESAs, it should be stressed that the development of the European internal market in financial services is moving very quickly towards more harmonised and central supervisory bodies as a result of the financial crisis. This is certainly positive in view of the increasing integration of financial markets and the cross-border effects of their activities. In this way, it will be easier to prevent potential crises in the future and to ensure a reduction in cross-border supervisory arbitrage within a single European regulatory and supervisory framework. At the same time, it must be understood that the ability of the Member States, including Estonia, to direct financial law at national level is beginning to decline significantly. At the same time, the role of the Financial Supervision Authority in the development and implementation of directly applicable technical standards at European level is clearly increasing. Directly applicable technical standards are an important component of the new supervisory architecture of Europe. They will be developed for the uniform implementation of the Directives in the internal market. In the coming years, EBA, EIOPA and ESMA will need to develop hundreds of binding technical standards that are directly applicable to national law. The ESAs have wide-ranging rights in the development of regulations. The regulatory and implementing technical standards developed by the ESAs will be in the form of a Commission Regulation. In addition, the ESAs shall draw up guidelines and recommendations. The Financial Supervision Authority participates in this work and actively contributes to the development of technical standards and guidelines and recommendations on topics relevant to the Estonian financial market. The directly applicable acquis of the European Union must be linked to national procedural and substantive law. The implementation of the rules requires the establishment of adequate procedural opportunities for national supervisory authorities. It is important to avoid situations where the directly applicable European acquis obliges individuals, but there is no real and effective possibility of effective action in the event of an infringement or a risk of an infringement due to national legislation or dogma. This includes giving the supervisory authority adequate procedural rights and creating opportunities, as well as modernising and adapting the sanction system to the specificities of the Estonian financial market. Of course, it must be taken into account that the rights of the person are not unduly affected. It is important to ensure that directly applicable legislation is translated into Estonian in such a way that it is possible to implement it in a uniform manner and in accordance with the objective of the standard in Estonia. In fact, the legal force of legislation is equal in all languages. In this context, our responsibility and workload towards Europe are also clearly increasing to ensure that our national and financial interests are best protected. For the Financial Supervision Authority, the approval of the new supervisory board strategy by the Financial Supervision Authority was an important milestone in 2011. The new strategy sets out three important directions where financial supervision needs to make a significant contribution in the coming years. Firstly, strengthening the supervisory capacity of the Financial Supervision Authority. Secondly, the Financial Supervision Authority as an effective cooperation partner. Thirdly, the role of the Financial Supervision Authority in advising and directing consumers of financial services. To briefly describe these three most important lines of action, increasing supervisory capacity is and will remain the basis of our work. Changing and specifying regulations, as well as changing risk assessments in time and space, will inevitably lead the organisation and people to be prepared for change and new tasks. Although our work requires a lot of precision and contains a lot of routine, it does not mean that the work of financial supervision as a whole is routine, rather the opposite. Cooperation has been highlighted as another important strand of our strategy. The integration of financial markets and the cross-border activities of many market players operating on our markets require us to be strong partners, primarily in the Nordic and Baltic directions. In addition to very close cooperation at expert level in the various colleges supervising market participants, cooperation has also started at national level. Thus, together with the Governor of Eesti Pank, I am involved in the work of the Nordic-Baltic Macroprudential Forum, which must contribute to better identifying systemic risks and exchanging information in our region. We are also involved with colleagues from Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance in the work of the Nordic-Baltic stability group, which must help prevent potential financial crises in the region and seek solutions for greater and better integration of both legal and supervisory steps in regulating possible crisis situations. As a recognition of our work, my good colleague in the Bureau, Kilvar Kessler, is leading a sub-group of the Nordic-Baltic Stability Group, which deals with the analysis of legal issues relating to the cross-border reorganisation or possible liquidation of financial institutions. We are also active in the direction of Central and Eastern Europe, where we are led by my other good colleague in the Bureau, Andres Kurgpõld. When looking at the priorities for the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority last year, important supervisory activities in the banking sector were the implementation of one component of Basel II, the internal capital adequacy process Pillar 2. The reports on the internal capital adequacy assessment process submitted by the banks were analysed and a supervisory assessment presented to credit institutions was prepared. For cross-border banking groups, we presented our supervisory assessments of the supervision of the parent bank in order to produce a group-wide supervisory assessment. The focus of the 2011 supervisory assessments was primarily on qualitative issues such as governance, intra-group outsourcing of services, quality of internal audit and other internal control mechanisms, strategy and ownership issues. For the banking sector as a whole, last year did not lead to an increase in loan demand. Last year, the decrease in loan volumes continued at the same rate as in 2010. Banks issue loans in accordance with generally accepted good practice and it cannot be argued that the availability of loans is limited due to excessive prudence of loan conditions. The decline in loan portfolios is mainly due to a lack of customer confidence in the future, and thus the demand for credit has been suppressed. As in 2010, the quality of the banks' loan portfolios improved and the aggregate volume of overdue loans decreased both in absolute terms and in terms of their share in the loan portfolio. During the year, both long-term and short-term non-performing loans decreased. The credit risk stemming from the economic downturn that started in 2008 has largely materialised and banks have largely 'cleaned up' their balance sheets from bad loans. The normal servicing of loans that have become insolvent has, unfortunately, recovered in a few cases. Banks have realised around 60% of the discount reserves set up in previous years, indicating that the banks had been very conservative in setting up discounts. The level of liquidity in the banking sector is high and has not fallen since joining the euro area and the reduction of reserve requirements. The central liquidity management banks at the level of the parent banks use the liquidity surplus from the parent banks to repay the loans involved in previous periods. As a result, financing has become increasingly based on customer deposits. This, in turn, reduces the liquidity risk of banks and lowers the cost of the resource. The level of capitalisation of banks operating in Estonia was and is still high and profitability has recovered. High attention is paid to medium-term developments in the capitalisation of small banks, in particular for financial institutions which do not generate significant returns on their core business or whose growth strategy has so far resulted in high costs. The profitability of banks will certainly be affected in the near future by the further decline in loan volumes and by the low level of EURIBOR. During the reporting period, the Financial Supervision Authority carried out a number of supervisory procedures in relation to different authorisations. More importantly, the analysis of the restructuring of the Baltic structural units and the capital management decisions of Swedbank can be mentioned. In order to ensure the transparency of the banking market, we prohibited several shareholders of Krediidipank from exercising voting rights last year, as long as the structure and financing of the owners of Krediidipank did not meet the requirements of the Estonian banking market. In addition to regular sector analyses, we also participated in the supervision of the insurance sector in the implementation of EIOPA's pan-European analysis of strength, where for the first time important insurers in the Member States participated at solo level. The strength analysis was carried out positively by all the insurance groups that participated in this solo or group level from Estonia. The Financial Supervision Authority also carried out an internal strength analysis for life insurance companies in Estonia. The stress analysis showed that life insurance companies' assets have been invested conservatively and that the European bond markets have no significant impact on the compliance of societies with their capital requirements. The volume of insurance premiums for non-life insurance remained almost unchanged compared to the previous year, while insurance premiums were collected only 0.3% less than a year earlier. Given the small size of the Estonian non-life insurance market and the impact of the crisis, these factors logically lead to the expansion and expansion of insurance companies into cross-Baltic societies. This business model has proven itself well so far. In the life insurance sector, most of the Baltic insurance companies belonging to the same financial group have merged, and this process is still ongoing in the non-life insurance sector. In 2011, Estonian insurance companies collected approximately 22% of the insurance premiums from Latvia and Lithuania. With the accessions planned in the near future, risks located outside Estonia are becoming even more important for the insurance sector. In the life insurance sector, the volume and demand continued to decline last year. Compared to last year, the volume of payments collected in life insurance decreased by 12%. In addition, the volume of buy-backs of investment risk products increased significantly, especially in the second half of the year. As more than half of all payments in life insurance are collected from Latvia and Lithuania, the life insurance figures are significantly influenced by the economic environment in Latvia and Lithuania and by the memory of its customers. As a result, most of the insurance risks of Estonian life insurance companies are located outside Estonia. The return on investment in the life insurance sector was under pressure from negative developments in the securities markets and no life insurance company earned sufficient investment income to exceed the guaranteed interest rate. However, societies have sufficient resources available to cover this risk, but nevertheless the societies must actively review their investment policy in order to reduce the potential for interest rate guarantee risk to materialise in the future. As a new area of financial services, last year paying agencies were added to our supervision. There are currently eight payment institutions in the payment services market, five of them under full authorisation and three under limited authorisation. The payment institutions mediated EUR 1.1 billion of customer transactions last year, which, given the small number of paying agencies' customers, is an exceptionally high turnover. The Paying Agencies sector is highly profitable. The sector earned 11 million euros in revenue over the year and the productivity of the sector's equity was above 30%. It is equivalent to profits earned by sectors that are several times larger, such as management companies or life insurance. The on-balance sheet risks of the paying agencies are low, mostly consisting of deposits in banks or settlements with partners. However, given the customer base in the sector, where offshore companies with a largely opaque business model, there is an increased risk of money laundering offences for paying agencies. Based on the supervisory procedures so far, it can be estimated that several companies here are a business culture that stands out as a lack of compliance with the law. Unlike other supervisory entities, the supervision of paying agencies must be more based on direct control of primary materials. Paying agencies can also take less account of the effective functioning of their own internal control mechanisms. In the supervision of financial services, we have increased the volume of on-the-spot checks to comply with the instructions and legal requirements of the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority analysed the market for investment-risk deposits for market transparency last year, and regrettably it must be noted that the weighted average return for investors on the use of this investment instrument over the almost two-year period considered was negative. I am pleased to note that, on our initiative, a legislative amendment was introduced last year, which will strengthen the assessment of customers' suitability requirements for banks in the provision of the relevant investment product. In order to prevent market abuse and, where necessary, to deter potential market abusers more effectively, we continued our active cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and the prosecutor's office. In promoting financial literacy, our main focus was on schools and teachers. In cooperation with the Tallinn Stock Exchange, the Banking Association and market participants, we organised a number of thematic study days in several counties. The addition of financial services benchmarks was an important milestone in the development of our consumer website, which should significantly increase the transparency of the financial services market and improve people's ability to find the most suitable service provider. All in all, our actions have become more European-centred. In order to ensure the stability and credibility of Estonian financial institutions, we can increasingly rely on our good colleagues in Europe, just as they can apply our competence and skills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U45	Thank you for your question. But this is a question that should be predicted in response. It's always extremely unappreciative. When we look at the behaviour of the markets and remember what the Governor of Eesti Pank said about his work in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, it must be said that the steps taken by the European Central Bank in the meantime significantly improved the situation in the markets. This brought down the interest rates on bonds from different countries, which gave the opportunity to breathe more easily. At the moment, as I said, the situation is once again tense with regard to the outcome of the possible elections in Greece and the consequences thereof. Looking at the developments of the last week in Spain, where the country has had to intervene very strongly in support of its banking sector, it is clear that these issues are on the agenda again. So now it is extremely unappreciative to predict what will happen at the end of the year, but I dare say that there will be very difficult times ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U46	Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U47	Thank you very much, Mr. Raul Malmstein. You've been asked questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! As we know, despite budgetary tension, this year, the government restored payments to the second pillar of the pension. It is no secret that, during a certain period, pension pillar funds were cut. Here's the question. How do you see the possibility or action of the Financial Supervision Authority, so that banks do not simply burn up the people's own money as well as the government's added support to the second pillar, at least at the same level, if it does not increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U49	Thank you for your question. As regards the supervision of pension funds, we have substantially changed our supervisory model over the last two years. It is based on much closer cooperation with market participants. On a regular basis, at least twice a year, we organise meetings with management companies where we, together with them, thoroughly analyse their portfolio structure, their investment strategy, trying to figure out where potential risk areas might be. With reference to your question, I must say that we cannot guarantee that the funds will always work with zero yield. However, it is a pleasure to note that when we proposed, in the latest legislative amendments, to tighten the investment restrictions on conservative funds on the basis of sovereign ratings, this model has begun to work and conservative funds are currently working very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U50	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U51	Thank you. I have two brief questions. The first concerns SMS loans and consumer credit products. When we look at our banks and our insurance companies, which are under your supervision, we see that this market works quite nicely and the rules are respected, but there is more freedom and confusion in the consumer credit market. Couldn't the Financial Supervision Authority also deal with these authorities? What's your position? The second question concerns the balance sheet of your institution. For some reason a loss of EUR 60000 was incurred last year. What was the reason for this loss?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U52	Thanks for the questions. I'll start with the first one. As regards SMS and consumer credit, this is currently a matter within the remit of the Consumer Protection Board. Changing competences is obviously very difficult. This would require a very strong political will and a very significant increase in the workload of the Financial Supervision Authority. We would probably need additional resources to do this work. So, theoretically, we could deal with this subject, but it would require a very important redistribution of portfolios, as well as finding resources to deal with this work. As far as our losses are concerned, this is a purely accounting item. We always draw up our budget in such a way that we plan orientately 95% of our income base to collect supervisory fees and the rest of the money will be taken from reserves if necessary. This EUR 60000 shows that we used this amount of money from reserves. However, this does not mean that we have somehow broken the budget in the implementation of the budget, but rather that we still spent money prudently.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U53	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U54	Thank you for your question. I think this financing model will continue to be sustainable. The question is what is affecting us very much now and in the future, namely, in the financing model of the three European supervisory authorities. At the moment, the solution is that 60% of the budget of the three ESAs comes from national supervision, we pay a participation fee, and 40% comes from the European Commission. Given that these central supervisory authorities are growing very rapidly (e.g. there were 35 people working in ESMA at the beginning of last year, now around 100 people working there and perhaps 200 in a year), it is clear that their budgets are also growing at a very rapid pace. If, at European level, the financing model for these institutions does not change (it was our proposal that 100% of their budget should come from the European Commission or from the European Union budget as a separate line), then at some point our budget situation will certainly be strongly strained. Already today, the share of the membership fees of these three ESAs in our budget is quite significant. If it starts to grow rapidly, it means that we should either receive an additional supervisory fee from market participants in one way or another or find a new financing model. But this is a question that will also have to be answered at European level in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable performer! I read your address at the beginning of the annual report. There you say that 2011 is characterised by the loss of confidence in the financial markets in the ability of countries to serve their debt obligations. Maybe my question is a little political, but I'm still asking. In a year's time, there will be a new annual report. On the basis of the beginning of the year, are you forecasting a change in the confidence of the financial markets in the countries? Will it heal, stay the same, or will it go backwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U56	No further questions. Thank you very much for your presentation. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The second item is closed. Once again, thank you to all the waitresses!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U57	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I, too, want to welcome you and thank you for your good work in the difficult times that are currently taking place in the financial markets. But my question concerns the same thing Arto asked about. We can see from the revenue and expenditure account that the supervisory fees have come down a little bit, but the costs of the inspection itself have remained at the same level or increased slightly. How have you done this year's budget? Are you planning to stay on the plus side, or is the question that maybe this financing model will no longer be sustainable in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U58	We shall proceed to the third item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 32 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like a presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you briefly what has happened between the first reading and the second reading of bill 164. I would remind you that this is a draft submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which aims to restore Estonian citizenship to persons who have lost it due to a mistake by officials. The Chancellor of Justice has also referred to this problem. First reading of Bill 164 took place here in the hall s. 20 March 2008 and the first reading was completed. Amendments had to be tabled by 11 April. The deadline was six proposals, three from the Centre Party Group, one from the Social Democratic Party Group and two from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed proposals at its meetings on 30 April, 10 May and 14 May. As some of the amendments overlap, I will describe the general situation and will be happy to answer the questions. A few proposals from the Centre Party Group were not supported by the Commission, as their issues went beyond the framework of the draft. One proposal concerned the language examination of the elderly and the other was about giving Estonian citizenship to children whose parents are at least one of the stateless persons. The Commission supported the proposal to exempt the victims of civil servants' errors from the payment of a one-off state fee for receiving a new passport or identity card. This is how the person is expected to be compensated for the cost of the state's error. As a result, the title of the Act was changed and the new title became the "Law amending the Civility Act and the State Fees Act." However, the Commission did not support the proposal to reimburse expenditure on other grounds. If the loss of nationality caused additional damage to the person, he shall always have the opportunity to bring a claim for damages before the courts. A fundamental dispute arose as to whether the state retains discretion when restoring its citizenship, or whether Estonian citizenship must in any case be restored in the event of a civil servant's mistake. The support was given by the proposal to leave the State a discretion, since the automatic restoration of citizenship may in certain cases be detrimental to the person himself. In addition, I note that the person can give up the restoration of Estonian citizenship himself or herself, and in the case of 14-year-olds and younger people, their legal representative makes a decision. In any case, persons who have obtained citizenship because of a forged or false document or knowingly false declaration cannot return Estonian citizenship. However, they will have the opportunity to apply for Estonian citizenship by naturalisation when this law is passed. They don't have that chance right now. The Commission supported the proposal to consider a person to be an Estonian citizen from the day on which he or she applies for the surrender of the citizenship of another country, and it is important that the restoration decision does not enter into force afterwards. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda today, 29 May and to conclude the second reading. If, for some reason, the second reading is interrupted, the proposal is to set a new deadline of 30 May at 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U60	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I read this bill carefully again. There is such a provision that a person can be deprived of his or her nationality if he or she renounces his or her existing nationality. I understand that this is contrary to § 28 of the Citizenship Act, according to which Estonian citizenship is withdrawn from a person who is a citizen of another state but is not exempt from Estonian citizenship. But this provision does not extend to those who acquire Estonian citizenship by birth, which means that we go against the current law with this amendment. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U62	Thank you for your question. The amendment by the Social Democratic Party Group was also discussed in the committee, according to which the person would have three years to think about whether he or she would like to continue as a citizen of another country rather than Estonia or to return Estonian citizenship. The Commission discussed this for quite a long time. We found that such a time limit is not very reasonable. However, this provision is in the law, as I understood, in order to avoid double citizenship. A person must give up the citizenship of another country in order to regain Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U63	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U64	My question is the Commission's most controversial discretion. How do you explain why this discretion is necessary here? When we talk about the provision of our law, according to which the child of Estonian citizens is born an Estonian citizen, no one writes that the child of Estonian citizens may be an Estonian citizen. That would sound absurd. But here, this discretion is necessary. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U65	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this issue took the most time in the Commission. The reason why it was decided to leave the discretion of the State is that, for example, it might happen that the person could not be contacted. For example, five years ago, he lost his nationality, moved to South America and lived there, and if his citizenship was returned automatically, he might not be able to know in five years' time that, in addition to being a citizen of another country, he is also an Estonian citizen. This may be a rather unpleasant surprise for him, for he may not have taken it into account. Another reason is that some people may not want their citizenship back. In such a case, automatic surrender of citizenship would be detrimental to him or her.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U66	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If I look at § 32 (2) of the bill, I don't understand that logic. This section speaks of cases where these people are still not considered citizens. There are three grounds: he forged documents, made false statements, or knowingly made false statements. While the intentional nature of the infringement is a very important element in the case of counterfeiting and knowingly false declarations, the word 'consciously' cannot be identified in the case of the lodging of a document containing false statements. Why is that? Why isn't there the word "consciously"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U68	Thank you for your question. It may happen that the document contains false information even if the person is not aware of it. For example, he brings some kind of proof from a foreign register that already contains false information. In this case, on the one hand, the person is not guilty, but on the other hand, there may still be no grounds for giving him Estonian citizenship. That is indeed a difficult question. At present, a person who has lost his or her citizenship because of it will never get it back. According to the bill, he could get it by naturalization. In this sense, however, the situation is improving.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U69	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U70	Thank you, Madam President. I come back to the citizenship acquired by birth. The situation is that Estonian laws allow Estonian citizens who have received citizenship by birth to have double citizenship. I just spoke to the Police and Border Guard Department today. I was assured that there are dozens of citizens who have been granted Estonian citizenship by birth among those who have lost their citizenship because of an official's error. If we take away the second nationality from them, it will result in the same violation of the law that we are currently correcting, or court cases or whatever. Does the Commission realise that with this we will essentially open the door in order to combat double citizenship in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U71	Thank you! It was not really discussed in the Commission from this perspective. At the same time, I recall that the draft law is still talking about the restoration of citizenship, not so much about the additional possibilities of withdrawing it. Perhaps the law is about how citizenship can be given back to a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U72	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue on the same subject that Deniss Borodich asked about. The word 'consciously', which was included in the draft at first reading on the basis of a consensual decision by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has now been removed. This has been done with the argument that, if you put that word in it, it will be very difficult for the Police and Border Guard Board to take away documents obtained on the basis of falsified data. But you yourself also admitted that it is certainly possible for bona fide people to submit documents containing false information without being guilty of it themselves. Simply in another country's register, or even in our own country's register, the source data has been incorrectly entered or the official has confused the Excel lines when issuing the document, etc. It's not man's fault. Your response gave me the impression that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that bureaucratic efficiency is more important than the protection of people's fundamental rights. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U74	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, we did not deal with bureaucratic efficiency and comparison of human rights in the Commission. However, I agree with the description of your problem. Indeed, it may be that the document contains incorrect information because it came directly from the register, which is also incorrect in the register. But in that case, I also agree with your statement that it is very difficult for a country to compare its data with foreign registers, for example. That may have been one of the reasons why it was proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U75	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U76	More discretion. I try to be very polite about a member who has left the Riigikogu. We saw that in this residence permit story, discretion was not the best solution that would have satisfied society. Then why are we going back to this? Can't you use the examples you gave us to introduce provisions into the bill that would make this more specific and rule out discretion? I am making up an amendment here on the ground. It must be something clear and concrete, not that people will sit and decide again, and then we will read in the paper that someone, I don't know, will resign, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U77	Thank you for your question. This was actually mentioned in the Commission. I'm the one who suggested that we just ask the person. It did not suit either the initiator or the representative of the government. As far as the issue of residence permits is concerned, it was dealt with by another Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U78	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U79	Good waitress! Don't you think the law must always protect the weaker side? Take, for example, the person who had already been granted citizenship, he lived with the knowledge that he was an Estonian citizen, but one day it was discovered that this document, which was the basis for granting citizenship, contained false information, although not the fault of a person. Whose protection must the legislator now take? Is it for the protection of the state that it is true that citizenship must be taken away, or for the protection of a person who actually lived in good faith with the knowledge that he is an Estonian citizen? Do you not think that the role of legislator is to protect the weaker? The person who lived with the knowledge that he was an Estonian citizen is definitely weaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U80	Thank you for your question. It was more of a personal question, I understand. The Commission's position on this matter is not known to me. My personal view is that, as a rule, the law must really protect the weaker, but sometimes it cannot be done. For example, if the same citizen, who is certainly in a weaker position than the country, violates the law, then sanctions must be imposed on him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U81	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U82	Thank you. I'm asking about discretion. Paragraph 32 of the current Act does not contain any discretion. These persons shall be considered to be citizens, except in the case of a document containing false information. The Chancellor of Justice criticised only one thing in this provision: it is subject to a date limit, i.e. valid until 1 April 1995 for documents issued. He basically just asked us to take that date limit out of there. For some reason, however, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, at the request of the Ministry of the Interior, has moved on from there and has put a margin of discretion in it. Do you know whether there were such serious problems in the application of the law earlier, until 1 April 1995, that discretion should definitely be introduced here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U83	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I cannot say whether there were problems with this particular provision in the past. As far as the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is concerned, I realized that this whole process really began. At the same time, the Commission finally proposed such a full solution, i.e. a review of all possible weaknesses in the current wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U84	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U85	Mr President, I would like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U86	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have praised the draft during the previous procedure for the constructive procedure of the Riigikogu. I have to start eating my words to some extent today. I recall why this law was changed in the first place. According to the current law, if the state has mistakenly considered a person to be a citizen of the Republic of Estonia and given him every reason to consider himself an Estonian citizen by issuing documents and renewing them, the state must not take away the passport if an error is discovered, but must, I stress, consider that person to be an Estonian citizen. The only exception is that when applying for the original document, false or forged documents have been submitted knowingly. This is a very sensible regulation. The only problem was that, under § 32 of the Citizenship Act in force, this provision applies only to documents issued until 1 April 1995. This time limit has not proved justified and the Chancellor of Justice has asked to withdraw it from the law. That's all he's asked for. That is what the Social Democrats wanted to do in their draft. At first reading, all Members were in favour of this provision in this particular formulation. It was then decided in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to clarify the law so that there would be no confusion in the implementation of the law. Of course, the initiators agreed. The Ministry of the Interior submitted informal amendments to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the aim of writing the text more beautiful, longer and clearer. In the interests of constructiveness, the Social Democrats also agreed and made their informal proposals in order to preserve the meaning of the law in the new text. Unfortunately, the constructive nature of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs ended with the receipt of proposals from the Ministry of the Interior. This text, which is before you, is basically a hundred percent of the text of ministry officials, which, on its most important point, is completely different from both the current regulation and the originator's text. In fact, the current law requires state institutions to be imperative that those who have obtained citizenship in good faith should have considered themselves an Estonian citizen and have borne the duties of a citizen must become a citizen. However, the circumstances in which this obligation does not exist are exhaustively set out. Then the State has discretion. These are the facts of counterfeiting and misinformation, as has already been pointed out many times here today. In the draft of the Ministry of the Interior, these exclusion factors also exist, but even if they are not, perhaps even if a person has not forged anything and has considered himself to be a citizen in good faith, the Police and Border Guard Board may decide whether or not to grant citizenship. I find it absolutely absurd for an official to decide whether a person remains a citizen or whether his/her substantive citizenship is revoked. I admit that in addition to counterfeiting, there may be other reasons why, on the basis of this rule of law, a person should not be considered a citizen. For example, the Ministry of the Interior pointed out (which was also done today by Mr Korobeinik) that some people cannot be contacted and are therefore difficult to grant citizenship. Okay, so let's write down that a person has to agree to be considered a citizen. The problem would have been solved. Or a situation where a person has committed acts against the state in the meantime. Okay, let's write down the conditions set out in § 28 (1) of the current Citizenship Act, which exclude citizens from being counted as citizens, such as anti-state crimes, etc. But the main thing is that the conditions under which the Police and Border Guard Board begins to consider whether or not to grant citizenship must be exhaustively listed in the law rather than based on unpredicted circumstances. After the residence permit scandal, the Riigikogu could be cautious about giving discretion to officials on incomprehensible grounds. For example, an official of the Ministry of Internal Affairs admitted that one of the exclusion factors would be a letter coming from the Defence Police Department that this person should not be an Estonian citizen. I don't know if it's the distribution of history books or whatever. Even the Prime Minister admitted to us yesterday that this authority is listening to half of our country. The fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gives them the fundamental right to judge a person's citizenship is incredible. Let's think about it calmly, it's our proposal, and let's not do that stupidity. The second thing I want to stop at is the reimbursement of expenses to those from whom the passport has been unfairly taken away. According to the current draft, a person will actually receive a new passport and identity card free of charge, while the initiators also proposed to compensate a person for the unavoidable costs incurred by a person in connection with a harmful and incorrect decision by the state. This means a residence permit, an alien's passport and, depending on the situation, a national fee for naturalisation. In addition to moral damage, people have spent money to legalize their stay in their own country. How are we gonna make it up to them? I wanted to ironize whether we give them Broken Ryeflower or not, but I'm not gonna ironize because Broken Ryeflower would at least be something. Instead, it is said that under the State Liability Act, a person has the right to submit an application to the Police and Border Guard Board, and then the Police and Border Guard Board is considering a person's application. In the interests of constructiveness, I suggested that we not write anything into the law if the Ministry of the Interior promises that the Police and Border Guard Board will be obliged to explain to the people that under this law they have the possibility to pay the state fee. In answer, I don't know if that's really the way to do it. Think about how many people know about a law like the State Liability Act. At the moment, it is generally still the Russian-speaking people who are not already very well oriented in the Estonian legal system. I think this argument is mocking people. Citizenship is a key element in the realisation of fundamental rights of a person. It is up to you to decide how to name the state order in which the officials of the Ministry of the Interior sit on the heads of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decides to prefer bureaucratic efficiency over the protection of the fundamental rights of a person. I wouldn't want to call it a parliamentary democracy. The Social Democrats today exercise their right of initiative and ask for the second reading to be interrupted because it was not possible to make formal amendments on the new text of the Ministry of the Interior and the fundamentals I have highlighted today have not been discussed in sufficient detail by the Commission. I ask all members of the Riigikogu to use the interim period to think seriously about what I said so that we can adopt this draft as a law during this session in a form that protects the fundamental rights of people. Despite some setbacks, the initiators are still open for constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U88	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not asking for more time, because I'll be very brief. We raised a problem. We have received a promise from a member of the government, Ken-Mart Vaher, that the problem will be resolved. In essence, the problem has not been resolved and everything ends with an official deciding the matter. It should be pointed out in particular that people have suffered not only the damage that Mr Ossinovski was talking about, but also the various kinds of damage. A normal Estonian Estonian citizen may not perceive it, but there are actually quite a number of positions where you can only work if you are an Estonian citizen. I personally know two people who lost their citizenship and therefore lost their job and income. So it's not that simple. I spoke to Dawn Bee, Head of the State Department of the Police and Border Guard Board an hour ago. He once again proved to me that this is also a problem for citizens who have received Estonian citizenship. With this bill, we will put them in a position where they will have to give up the citizenship of another country, the possession of which is actually permitted by law. To conclude, unfortunately, the ministry led by Mr Vaher is pursuing a very hostile policy towards our people. A week ago, we talked to the minister about residence permits in this room. I asked why it is not possible for an old lady who lives alone and has medical problems to invite her grandson to live in Estonia. I have received the answer that this is possible, so we have to turn to the competent bodies, and they will decide. What do you think happened? The old lady went to the Police and Border Guard Board, she was given a paper stating that the law forbade her granddaughter, and was advised to go live in the country where the grandson lives. The old lady, on the other hand, has a disabled son living in Estonia, who is in a nursing home in Viljandi County. The lady now has to decide if she's going to live in another country for her own health and she's leaving her child here. That's how our good ministry actually behaves. So the Minister's words that sounded from this remote are, unfortunately, not true. We need to read with a big eye these draft laws that have passed a round of corrections or finishing between the walls of the Ministry. I'm afraid so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U90	Thank you. No more calls, let's finish the negotiations. Despite the fact that the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed that the second reading be interrupted, we will examine the amendments. The first amendment is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has decided to take part in the proposal. The second amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has decided not to take the proposal into account. The third proposal is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the decision of the commission is that the proposal will not be taken into account. The fourth proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the decision of the commission is that the proposal is partially taken into account. The fifth proposal is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the lead committee has decided to take full account of the proposal. The sixth proposal is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the lead committee has decided to take the proposal fully into account. Since the initiator has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law, the second reading is interrupted. The new deadline for tabling amendments is s. 15 May 2010 at 6 p.m. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U91	We will go to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Urve Palo, member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U92	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been waiting five years for this bill to be filed. Working as head of the company five years ago, I often wondered, and I was not the only one, even many of my colleagues from other companies were facing the same problem of why the state is holding back investment in people, which the state hopes to benefit from it. The state will suffer the damage, but what are the benefits? Now, working in the Riigikogu, I have the opportunity to finally propose that the state step into the 21st century with its tax policy and gain more value for human resources. I know that the Social Democrats have repeatedly come up with a similar proposal, but I have never had this opportunity before. Thus, the development of the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act was due to the need to enable employers to make a certain amount of money during the calendar year, we propose that the tax-free expenditure of EUR 400, which would promote the healthy way of life of workers, reduce ill health and, if necessary, support the recovery of the affected worker. This would improve people's health and, among other things, reduce the cost of both health insurance and labour costs in general by employers and the state in the future. It would also have an impact on companies' efficiency gains. However, the current special preferential tax can be considered as a brake on the development of workers and, consequently, companies, and thus on the economic growth of Estonia as a whole. In Estonia, where both the state budget and human resources are very limited, it is particularly important that we manage reasonably with these limited resources. For humans, health is an unrecoverable resource. For its part, the state must therefore do its utmost to support and direct people to maintaining and promoting health and to contribute to a rapid improvement in people's health. Therefore, companies willing to invest in the health of their workers should not be penalised. Unfortunately, however, the State is currently punishing companies that support sports, rehabilitation or other health promotion activities of their employees, whether health check or tick injection, treating these costs equally with wages and adding both income tax and social tax to their expense accounts. This makes such investments almost twice as expensive for the company and significantly hampers the company's readiness and ability to contribute to the health of its employees. At the same time, the same company's investments in machinery and equipment are tax-free. Where's the logic? Machinery and equipment are much easier to replace than a skilled workforce. The fact that expensive machines do not work without a healthy and dedicated worker has been forgotten. Today, the critical production medium is small and gray and weighs about 2 pounds [1.3 kg]. It's the human brain. Once the decisive factor in production was the land, then the machines and equipment, or capital, now it is man. People can be creative, come up with new ideas, introduce new rules and feel emotions. Machines and equipment can't do it. As they say, if you can touch something, it's probably not worth much. Today's competitive battlefield is not an engine or air conditioner. It's design, service, image, knowledge, or intangible things. And people, of course. Thus, Estonia is helped to turn low-income land into high-income and high-value-added products into an exporting country only by our own educated and well-healthed person. It is the task of the state to promote and promote healthy lifestyles and to direct people to them in order to maintain and promote the most valuable resource for the state. In addition to the marketing campaigns carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the National Institute for Health Development, the state is an important lever in changing and guiding people's behaviour in tax policy. According to the last survey on the health behaviour of the Estonian adult population in 2010, 15% of people are engaged in recreational activities every day or four to six times a week, and 21% between two and three times a week, 14% do sports once a week. The total number of people who do not exercise at all or engage in sports once a year is 32%. Regular athletes are among the highest earners. They also include the most highly educated people. More than half of people earn less than average wages in Estonia and it can therefore be assumed that if the employer could partially pay for health sports opportunities, this would significantly increase people's physical activity. It is also quite worth pointing out that half of Estonian adults are either overweight or obese, and this indicator is on the growth trend. People's habits, behaviour, and values cannot be changed overnight. Values that prioritise human health and a healthy lifestyle can be changed as a result of consistent work. This needs to be dealt with every day, especially with a declining and ageing nation in the country, as Estonia is. Why, then, do we undermine employers' desire to contribute to the health of their workers and thereby contribute to changing values in society at large? The mother or father who regularly conducts sports will also pass on the pattern of behavior to their children. You can't predict the future, you have to create it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of you to support a draft which, as a result of its implementation, will become exempt from the special preferential tax of EUR 400 per calendar year for investments in the most valuable resource of the Estonian state. This will help create the future of an Estonian country with high productivity and high wages, which is at least among the first five years of healthy life in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U93	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Sõerd, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You want to introduce a tax exemption to cover the rental costs associated with the use of sports facilities. After all, people practice a lot of outdoor sports: they cycle in the summer and run on a forest trail, skiing in the winter. I also asked Eiki Nestor, who was the initiator of the draft in the Commission: why is there no tax exemption for such open-air activities? He said he couldn't, because maybe this bike is also used for other purposes, not just for sports, for example, for the party council, so you can't. I'm asking you, why are you forcing people to replace outdoor activities in sports, indoors and spas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U95	Nobody's forcing anything. Businesses have the opportunity to support people's healthy lifestyles, not an obligation. If you look at the draft law, you will see that the line under which an entrepreneur can support the promotion of workers' health in the amount of EUR 400 per year is quite long. Once again, the entrepreneur must first be aware of the importance of promoting health, because the EUR 400 he pays to promote human health is his own money, it is not given to him by the state. There are many of these possibilities. Indeed, it is possible to pay for access to swimming pools, aerobics or gyms. For example, if a person works with a computer and needs a massage in his shoulder belts, it is also possible to pay for it. All of this depends on the nature of the person's work, the wishes and opportunities of the entrepreneur. If anyone wants to go running in the woods, it's very nice. This bill will certainly not prevent us from going into the forest in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U96	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U97	Thank you. In itself, this initiative is not new, and it is a positive one. But I would like to clarify the payment for foods for health care on the basis of medical indications prescribed by the occupational doctor. Aren't we planning on opening Pandora's box here? Eventually, all food may become'special' tax-free.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U98	Thank you for that question. First of all, we should definitely trust the doctors. I can't imagine that a healthcare professional would recommend buying with this money, I don't know, cookies, candy or coffee, but it may be important to have milk or some other product in certain work-specific situations. However, any good proposals that help to make this bill even better and to take away threats that someone thinks might open Pandora's box are welcome. Between the first and second readings, we will certainly be able to deal with the amendments very carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U99	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U100	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As a result of the emotional question of MP Sõerdi, I ask whether there is any restriction on his right to make such an amendment to this draft that bicycles and sneakers would also go under the special advantage. I think he can do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U101	Good questioner! Of course, such a correction can also be proposed. For example, it can be suggested that an employer can pay EUR 400 a year for sports equipment free of the special preferential tax. Such a proposal can certainly be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U102	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U103	Thanks! Based on the emotional conversation between Sõerdi and Nestor, I would like to ask you the following. I couldn't figure out why it's better or preferable for me to walk in the middle of the street, for example, in the gym.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U104	I certainly don't make assessments that are better. This is decided by the person and decided by the employer. If a person wants to walk or run in the fresh air, there you go. Well, that depends on the weather. It's a free choice for a human being. I like it when a person can decide for himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U105	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. Have you, or even the Social Democrats, not had any contact with an employer who is willing to pay people sports grant and a special bonus tax on it? I happen to have been in contact with an employer like that. I was the CEO of this facility myself. We had, as I recall, a sports grant for every employee in the old money for 2,000 kroons. We were happy to pay off all the taxes on it. People were healthy and good, and they were working. All the beautiful things you described were there, but they also paid taxes. Don't you have an opportunity or an alternative left in that bill somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U107	Thank you, good questioner! As I said at the beginning of my presentation, I myself, when working as head of the company, was facing this problem. We paid 3600 kroons a year, or 300 kroons a month, for employee health promotion and sports opportunities. But we also paid taxes on it. Instead of 300 kroons, we could have supported a person in the amount of 500 kroons a month, because that is what it really cost us. There are companies like this now, but to a small extent. Why do I say a little bit? If we look at the potential tax policy effects of this draft, we can see that at present all declared expenditure relating to sport and health promotion is on a line such as the free transfer, sale or exchange of a stock, a security, a property right or a service at a price below the market price. In 2011, there was EUR 3.5 million. Business lunches, summer days etc. also go down there. If you add more insurance here, it is clear that the tax revenue was just over EUR 2 million. These amounts are very, very small. This shows that companies do so very modestly because the promotion of health is subject to special preferential tax. These figures show this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U108	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U109	Thank you. Apart from the acquisition of sports equipment which is not covered by the draft, is it currently subject to special preferential tax on walking or running outside, provided that it is free of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U110	As far as I know, I haven't gotten a bill like that. I go running into the woods myself from time to time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U111	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U112	I'm asking for your answer. Has it ever occurred to you that the small amount of money may not be due to the fact that businesses are not prepared to pay taxes, but rather to the fact that they do not value sports, and this tax, whether it is or not, does not change that attitude? Perhaps it should be done to raise awareness among entrepreneurs about the benefits of employee sport for them and, in this way, for the whole of Estonia, the Estonian economy, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U113	Thank you. That's a good question. That's what I think. I said in my speech that the Estonian state can direct people to healthier lifestyles by means of campaigns, which are also being carried out, but the best way to do this is tax policy. This is the lever that the state holds. If tax policy shows that investments in this area are exempt from special preferential taxes, as is currently the case with investments in machinery and equipment, it shows that this is an important activity. It also makes entrepreneurs think that maybe this could be done. As I said earlier, this money is not provided by the state to businesses; in any case, the company must find the EUR 400 itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U114	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U115	Good manager! Good waitress! I don't think it's a bad idea to support employee sport. But the final point here is to decorate the recovery offices at the workplace. We know that there are also so-called "jobs" in a large number of private homes. Does this give me the opportunity to create a gym home free of tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U116	There are, of course, very specific demands for rehabilitation offices, and they are again determined by the doctor. But when we talk about rehabilitation in Estonia at all, it is a very, very big disgrace and a bottleneck in Estonia. Rehabilitation is paid by the state for one month and, if prescribed by the doctor, may be paid for another month. But we know that very often it takes months to recover from stroke, heart attack or car accident and to rehabilitate. When a person recovers, he is once again a resource in the labour market, if he does not recover, then he is a 'coster of tax revenue'. That is why it is very important that, if the country itself cannot do so, that we do not at least punish entrepreneurs if they want to support a certain amount of the person's recovery and return to work. But once again, if you have any doubts that such things will be done in apartment buildings somewhere, reasonable suggestions for improvement are very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U117	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U118	Thank you. It was mentioned here that running outdoors is not a topic at all, that it is free. I ask: if the employer pays for bicycle training, ski training or outdoor aerobics, is it subject to special tax or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U119	Personally, I think that if a person goes to a bicycle club, for example, or somewhere else, for training in the fresh air, with an invoice that is a cost, it is the same as the promotion of health in a closed room. Once again, if there are doubts that the draft law does not determine in sufficient quantity and precisely everything that could be covered by the promotion of health, then the suggestions for improvement are really very welcome in order to make this better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U120	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U121	Thank you. Can we talk about the outdoor chess ring here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U122	Thank you. One meeting at the back of the hall is overshadowing what is happening in front of this hall. Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U123	Thank you. Good waitress! Your discussion and reflection on the poisons we inject into ourselves in the form of vaccines encouraged me to ask the following question. Was it the Commission's position, or is it from the government's point of view, to question the current vaccination system very strongly that we should stop vaccination and send people to a cold shower?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U124	No, that was neither the Commission nor the government's position. That was my assessment of the vaccine. Personally, I vaccinate myself so if I feel bad, I'll have a shot of cognac. So for me, this vaccine could be excise-free, at least a bottle a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U125	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U126	Thank you. Good waitress! In essence, the Commission is opposed to spending more money on sport and health recreational activities with this bill. Why is the Commission opposed to this and voting on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U127	Thank you. Actually, I've already called it quite a few times. This whole sport side has very little impact on the state budget. We are still talking about the following points: they were the main reason. But since this draft proposes not only to allocate EUR 400 per employee per year for sport, but there are five other points here, that is why.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U128	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U129	Thank you. Good waitress! I understand that the Commission's discussion was still rather in the key that it was a positive draft, but there could be a change in some points. The only one who really opposed the bill was the government. In fact, these good proposals could be taken into account during the second reading, starting with the exemption of one bottle from excise duty. Maybe the decision not to finish the first reading isn't good. Wasn't it under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U130	This is your assessment, you have the impression that it is a very good and positive draft. The six members of the Commission were not impressed, the five were left, so the opinions were split in half. According to some members, this is a bad draft; more or less the parties had a different opinion. So the voices almost split in half.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U131	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Any requests? There's no call. Since the proposal of the lead committee is to reject it at first reading, we must vote on this proposal. We're preparing for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the leading committee to reject 208 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 40 against and no abstentions. The draft law has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 12.34 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U132	Why not? But with the chess ring, of course, the question is, it's brain gymnastics. So chess is a separate question. That's an interesting idea. You can also propose an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U133	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U134	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Do you think that the employer might also be interested in having proper teeth and a shiny smile for his employees, for example, who serve customers? Could the employer also invest in it? After all, this is something that basically promotes service quality or a service culture. So teeth. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U135	Very well, I think. We have also discussed, within the framework of the draft law, that dental care could be included in these 400 euros. If an undertaking decides to support dental care, why not? A healthy tooth is not only an aesthetic sight, but it is also one of the pillars of human health. Again, we know that the Estonian state supports dental care with almost non-existent amounts. So if the entrepreneur is willing to come here to help, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U136	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U137	Thank you. My question stems from my fellow Members' questions. Juku-Kalle Raidi's questions indicate that his health activities are so elitist that not all people may understand them. I don't know how to help him either. Aivar Sõerdi would really like to get some help. We know that one of the types of popular sports that has recently become increasingly popular is that people go to ski marathons in winter, on bike marathons in spring and autumn, in summer, and so on. People go there with work groups, which means regular exercise in the area and proper exercise in health sports. Could the payment of the participation fee for such events be covered by this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U138	Thank you. Personally, I think we should. As you said, in order to go to the marathon, you have to train a lot in advance. Once again, there is a need for motivation and incentive to get somewhere. I think it could definitely go down here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U139	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Urve Palo. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of Erki Noole, member of the Chair Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft law 208 on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 14 May. The draft was presented by Eiki Nestor at the Commission. The purpose of the draft is to enable the employer to spend a certain amount of money on the health sports of his employees and to improve their health without tax costs being incurred. To this end, part of the expenditure will not be considered as a special advantage in the future. The Government of the Republic also assessed this draft: the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. I will present a bit of the debate that was in the Commission, and I will comment on the debate and on the questions. I think that during the debate currently taking place in the Chamber, the main focus has been on supporting sport spending. If we look at the six points that state what is not considered as a special advantage, it is certain that the coverage of the rental costs associated with the use of sports facilities will have the least impact on the state budget. I think the accent's in the wrong place right now. Questions have just been raised about the payment of healthcare and reimbursement of expenditure on medicines. Perhaps a bit of emotional debate was also raised by the fifth point: paying for foods that health care on the basis of prescribed medical indications by an occupational doctor. For my part, those who are overweight or, frankly, fat have the most advantage of eating caviar if they want to lose weight. Is there a medical indication or not? In addition, the issue raised above concerning the fitting-out of rehabilitation offices at workplaces was also discussed. Those were the questions and the discussions. It was also discussed that the initiators of the draft did not point out exactly how much impact the budget would have. The fear is also that tax optimisation could begin. More or less this form of debate in the Commission was under way. An example was also provided that one euro put on movement or sport would bring back 3.5 euros to the country. After all the excellent discussions, the Commission also made some decisions. The first decision was consensual: to send the draft to the grand hall of the Riigikogu on 29 May, i.e. today. The second proposal was to reject the draft, with 6 votes in favour and 5 against, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U141	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, could you be more specific about why the Government of the Republic does not support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U143	The Government of the Republic had five arguments. One argument was that only working people would benefit from the draft, whose employer agrees to compensate for the costs included in the draft, while the cost of the tax credit would essentially be borne by the rest of society. Every new tax credit will make tax administration more difficult and expensive and will increase the risk of tax fraud. According to the drafters, they do not have information on how much employers finance activities and treatment aimed at the prevention of health sports and diseases of their employees and pay additional employee health insurance contributions. However, the drafters assume that there is little coverage of such costs, which is why the implementation of the draft law does not significantly reduce the collection of taxes into the state budget. This assessment could not be accepted by the government. Perhaps the most important reason is that the special benefit is a specific type of remuneration which is taxed on income and social tax. These were the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U144	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U145	Dear waitress, As the debate on the previous draft revealed, the decision of the coalition members is determined not by their own common sense, but by what the Government of the Republic thinks, in fact, by an official of a ministry. Therefore, I have a question: do you think the Government of the Republic wisely did not support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U146	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! People have healthy hobbies and unhealthy hobbies. Milk is healthy and, of course, it is not subject to excise duty, vodka is unhealthy and excise duty is completely imposed. A moderate exercise in health is certainly beneficial to people, and it could be encouraged in any way. But at the same time, top sport is obviously harmful to health. Couldn't top sport have some additional tax burdens that could help develop health sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U147	When I look at this whole bill, it seems to me that it was wise, because I think there are some points that have not been thought out here. Yes, there is a risk of tax fraud or of optimising costs. Although I think it makes sense to lose the special advantage of sport in itself. As I said during the 184 debates on the draft submitted by the Centre Party, the hardest distance for a person is from the couch to the front door. This is where the company can influence its employees, and they can be driven by a swimming pool pass. There was a question of compensation for public sports events. My personal opinion is that companies should not do this. Is this a health sport? There is one way around, but there isn't the other way around. Most middle - aged men and women have practiced sports in their youth. If sport is practiced only in youth, the will usually goes 20 metres ahead of the body, so that occasionally competing is no longer very healthy or at least not in the first few years when you have come back to the sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U148	Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U149	Thank you. You very well presented the government's positions in your presentation. Did you get the impression that the special incentive for both health expenditure and sports expenditure is by nature an extremely positive and good thing? There are quite a number of reasons, above all technical reasons why it cannot be supported in any way. Did the government also find anything positive if healthcare expenditure and sports expenditure were to be exempt from the special preferential tax in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U150	The government's assessment was, how to say, very formal. We can actually lose cigarette excise because we can always find a positive approach. For example, if one family member is a little calmer, he does not beat another family member. So you can always find a positive moment in anything, but if it's so positive from a broader perspective, I'm not quite sure about that. Returning to the question, I say that the government's assessment was very pragmatic and very correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U151	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U152	Thank you. Erki, please tell me, you did not discuss the following in the Commission: if such a law were already in force, how should the road administration's journey be treated on this basis when it was actually going to sport? Would this law promote such sports as this or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U153	I can't say that. It is important here that the tax officer's assessment of how this trip is formulated. Basically, if the family doctor reported that a healthy dinner would require food, for example, Norwegian fish, then perhaps it could even be put down there. I can't tell, but I guess this thing is a little spread out. For example, the acquisition of medical aids. If an employee has broken his knee, is the bicycle a medical aid in this case or is it not? That is a controversial question. It also obviously requires a subjective approach from a tax officer whether he accepts these documents or not. I think that is one of the main reasons why certain points are not necessary or why they were not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U154	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U155	I'm asking the government's point of view. If, after a warm summer, the employer decides to vaccinate his employees against the flu, with the aim of reducing his own costs, because he has to pay five sick days and actually reduce the cost of health insurance, and if he puts EUR 100 on it, he will have to pay the state 21 + 33 = 54 cents for every 100 euros. For what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U156	When it comes to healthy lifestyles, I think that taking a cold shower every morning and maybe 10 to 15 minutes of walking in a stick (can even cancel this walk) is much healthier than vaccination. Many people are also very opposed to vaccines. I don't think we should go into very chemical trends in society. We should not think that human health comes only from all kinds of vaccinations and so on. We saw a few years ago how the country put very large sums of money on one of the vaccine madness, but the vaccine wasn't really used. My personal assessment is that companies should not have to pay for vaccines. And then why just a flu vaccine, you might want to get ticked, and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U157	Thank you. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U158	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! About a year ago, when the so-called Land Tax Exemption Act was under discussion in this Chamber, at first reading, it could be said that it was actually the Land Tax Optimisation Act, but after the first reading from the Commission, when it came back to the Chamber, it was already much more meaningful. In the case of this bill, did you not discuss in the Commission that it could go on, all the risks of optimization that the government is talking about, and all the other problematic points, and, for example, to arrive at the adoption of this law before discussing the next budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U159	There was no such discussion. We discussed how to deal with this bill in the hall. But since Urve Palo started his presentation with the fact that he is extremely happy to submit this bill again for over five years, I think the Social Democratic Party could come up with a much better bill and I would like to present it to us again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U160	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-29_U161	Now we should define what is top sport. Is the 20th prize athlete at the Olympic Games top athlete or enthusiast? We certainly have a different view here. I don't think top sports are more harmful to health than health sports. I can also tell you from my experience that the biggest traumas I experienced were not as a top athlete, but as a sports enthusiast. The last time I was traumatized was when I played football for the Estonian Parliament's team. So we're going to stick to what's more harmful, either top sports or health sports, definitely different opinions. Similarly, milk is likely to be very harmful to anyone who is lactose intolerant. This does not mean, of course, that milk should be subject to excise duty.
