ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, on the issue of the pay gap between women and men. As you know, according to Eurostat, the difference between the wages of men and women in Estonia is the largest in the European Union. In 2009, the difference in the average gross hourly wage of Estonian male and female workers almost doubled the average in the European Union, and nevertheless, Estonian women still work more than other European women. However, this pay gap may be even greater, as Eurostat takes into account hourly wages. It can be added that the level of education of Estonian women is higher than that of men, and in 2010, for example, women made up 70% of graduates. As we all remember, the Riigikogu adopted a decision on the initiative of good colleagues in the autumn proposing to the Government of the Republic an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women. So we are investigating what the government has done to solve this problem, and what are the latest data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U3	There's no more calls. Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law on ratification of the agreement on privileges and immunity between the Republic of Estonia and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. In the Riigikogu, Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Competition. Thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when these two drafts are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U5	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft anti-corruption law, launched on 6 March. The Steering Committee is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law on public service initiated on 6 March. The Steering Committee is also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has been forwarded by the Government of the Republic s. a On 8 March, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's communication on a strategy for the protection and welfare of animals in the European Union for the years 2012-2015, and appointed a Committee on Rural Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. March 22nd at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has returned to the performers an inquiry to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal on 8 March. The reason was that the inquiry was not in accordance with § 139 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, as it did not concern the enforcement of the laws governing the powers of the Minister of Justice. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Next, I will vote on this week's agenda. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall vote on the agenda for the eighth working week. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda for the eighth working week has been adopted. Now let's start answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U6	The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta, Deniss Borodichi, Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luigas, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toom on the 9th day of February 2012 regarding the availability of cash and bearing the number 110. The President of Eesti Pank Andres Lipstok answers the inquiry. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be presented to the public by Deniss Borodichi, the representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! In January of this year, the people of Virtsu were shocked by the news that the settlement's last ATM was being shut down in the area. The resentment of the local population was justified because the nearest ATM would be two kilometres away if Virtsu's machine gun was closed. Unfortunately, there are still areas in Estonia where access to cash is significantly limited. Small islands such as Vormsi, Ruhnu and Piirissaare have been completely neglected. Thus, the residents of Ruhnu are forced to use the help of the local shop to get cash, where the merchant charges a fee for the cash. The decision of commercial banks to close ATMs in less-populated areas can have a significant impact on Estonia's regional policy. The Prime Minister has said, commenting on the situation that the state cannot put pressure on any bank to ensure that ATMs are available. At the same time, § 34 (8) (2) of the Emergency Act in force in Estonia provides for the availability of cash as a vital service. Paragraph 13 (2) (4) of the Law states that the interruption of the continuity of the vital service may lead to the imposition of an emergency situation. According to the Emergency Act, Eesti Pank is the organiser of the maintenance of the vital service. Paragraph 37 of the same Act also provides for the obligation to prepare a risk analysis for the continuity of the service. Consequently, we have four questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U8	Thank you! I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by Andres Lipstok, Governor of Eesti Pank!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, thank you for the opportunity to answer questions from 11 members of the Riigikogu concerning the provision of vital services under the Emergency Act. The first question: 'What has Eesti Pank done to ensure that all residents of Estonia have access to vital services (cash)? ' First of all, Eesti Pank ensures the availability and safe preservation of a sufficient reserve of euro banknotes and coins in the Republic of Estonia to satisfy the cash demand of residents and companies. Secondly, Eesti Pank, as a cash-circulator, makes cash available through commercial banks operating in Estonia and companies operating in Estonia. Cash is available from Eesti Pank to all commercial banks operating in Estonia who offer cash services. Question 2: 'How does Eesti Pank ensure the continuity of the vital service (cash) in the Estonian islands? ' The possibilities for islanders to receive cash do not differ significantly from those offered in sparsely populated areas on the mainland. In several small islands, such as Kihnu, Vormsi and Piirissaare, there are post offices in Estonian Post, which offer postal banking services in cooperation with SEB, including cash withdrawal services. Older people can order a pension delivery service from the Estonian Post. However, speaking of cash as a vital service, I recall one of the cash operations that took place about 15 months ago. I am, of course, talking about the exchange of kroons into euros. The turn of the year was exceptionally snowy, the road conditions were very bad, but despite difficult conditions and tight timetables, Estonia's biggest cash changeover ever passed very successfully. Even the most distant Estonian places were supplied with euros in time, and the cooperation between the state institutions and the private sector was brilliant. It can therefore be said that solving exceptional situations regarding cash in Estonia has also been practically tried and practice has proven that we can do this. The third question: 'What is the cooperation of Eesti Pank with commercial banks to ensure the availability of vital services (cash) for residents? ' Pursuant to § 34 (9) and 35 (1) of the Emergency Act, Eesti Pank is responsible for coordinating the continuity of vital services and advising the providers of vital services. As the organiser of the continuity of vital services, Eesti Pank cooperates with commercial banks on several levels. In order to deal directly with the tasks arising from the Emergency Act, these are risk scenario analysis, risk assessment, coordination of business continuity plans, test planning and regular meetings of the relevant working group. In addition, on the initiative of Eesti Pank, seminars have been held with key partners, such as communications service providers. Speaking of everyday life, Eesti Pank has close contact with commercial banks in organising cash circulation. Cooperation with them is done every day according to the demand for the issue of cash or the introduction of Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank has contracts with seven commercial banks to receive and issue cash. Situations for issuing cash in exceptional circumstances or for depositing in Eesti Pank are also considered. Question 4: Does the risk analysis also take into account the commercial interests of commercial banks, which may not be in line with sustainable regional policy? ' The risk analysis provided for in the Emergency Act has been submitted by the critical service providers to Eesti Pank and we have also sent it to the Ministry of the Interior. The Emergency Act and the risk analysis it requires are designed to address as well as possible the problems encountered during an emergency. Therefore, the Emergency Act does not solve issues of sustainable regional policy. That concludes the questions that were put in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U10	Thank you! You have at least one question. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U11	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You also mentioned a small island in your reply. As far as I know, the cash delivery on Ruhnu Island is simply through the local village shop, as there is no ATM either. Unfortunately, elsewhere in Estonia, where there are also not very densely populated areas, this service does not work that way. Could the same system, where people can get money from the local village shop, not be extended to the whole of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U12	Thank you. Ruhnu really does provide this service through the village shop. It's Ruhnu's own initiative, and I'm sure it's a deal with the shopkeeper and the people who bring cash to Ruhnu Island. Of course, every island can use every possible route, but it still has to be a local initiative for local businessmen. Doing so somehow on orders that we now start dispensing cash through shops to anyone who wants cash is not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U13	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U14	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, You mentioned that Eesti Pank's task is to advise vital service providers and that they are commercial banks in relation to cash. But who can stand up for people when commercial banks say that in some areas of Estonia it is not just profitable to maintain ATMs, that they are dependent on their owners and do not do charity? How, then, should this be arranged in Estonia, so that there is still a bank that performs this task? Or is there a national structure that must assume this responsibility if private banks no longer want to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U15	Thank you. The starting point is absolutely right; this is, of course, part of the business of private banks. Banks are market makers and banks are fighting for customers. I imagine that, if you look at the number of ATMs, as well as the citizens' behaviour, the situation is under control in this sense, either in areas where the service would be so screamingly unsubscribed, especially not much. On the basis of the data available to Eesti Pank, the use of cash has decreased significantly in recent years. The use of ATMs has also decreased, and if the number of usages goes down, the owner of the ATM will, of course, start counting the bill. Certainly, the conclusions are sometimes wrong, these errors must then be corrected and they have been corrected, but there is no chain of command to set up or not to set up ATMs, and if you think carefully, then I don't think it would make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U16	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U17	Thank you. I have this general question. You said that cash can be received from ATMs or via Eesti Post. Can you tell us how many places or municipalities there are in Estonia where there is no automatic or post office?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U18	Thank you. I do not currently have the number available if there is no automatic or post office in several municipalities. But as an example of how to get cash, one can mention the same Ruhnu mentioned earlier. This is, after all, a matter of cooperation between local government, local authorities and money handlers. It would certainly be easier if the demand for cash could be met anywhere through post offices and ATMs. But if demand declines, as I said before, it is very difficult to believe that those organisations that provide this service will, of course, have functions other than cash to deal with, in which case they would continue to operate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U19	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, We have been talking about a wide range of ways to ensure access to cash. But if there is cooperation with a shop on the spot, for example, then the fee is much higher when cash is withdrawn than in the case of Eesti Post or commercial banks. Do you not think that this puts the people there in a significantly worse position than the residents of other regions, where the services of Eesti Post or commercial bank can be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U21	Thank you. If one service is more expensive, users of this service will have to pay more money and their situation will, of course, be worse. The answer can be that, of course, these are people who pay a higher fee to withdraw cash from the store, for example, from the bank's head office or from the Estonian Post, in a worse situation. The service is more expensive for a person and less satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U22	Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, I thank you for your answers. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U23	We will move on to the next inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Deniss Boroditš, Enn Eesmaa, Jüri Ratas, Kalev Kallo, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Laas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassiliev and Vladimir Velman. The inquiry has been submitted on 23 January 2012 and the topic is Eesti Energia's decisions in Ida-Virumaa. Andrus Ansip answers the question. But before we go on with this questioning, I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from the manager. The hearing will be resumed at 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U24	Good fellows, the chairman's recess is over. I apologise for using this competence, but it was necessary for all parties to be present in response to the question. Now that's the case, and it's a great pleasure. Lembit Kaljuvee, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, will introduce the inquiry, which bears the number 98!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U25	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! I have the honour to present the inquiry which, on 23 January, was submitted to the Prime Minister by a number of members of the Central Party Group. I would very much like the Prime Minister to reconsider the content of this inquiry today, and perhaps once again in the government, because, in the case of miners and in my opinion, the question is very serious and very deep. Sometimes interviews are conducted in such a way that there is a political part and there is a substantive part, and the percentage between one or the other is too large and sometimes a little too small. This inquiry concerns the closure of Aid's career. This decision was taken by the Estonian Energy Council at the beginning of this year and certainly the Estonian Energy Council considered this decision very seriously, i.e. not the Estonian Energy Council, but the Mining Council. On this decision, Eesti Energia can be very well understood, because Eesti Energia does not need the stone of Aidu. Aid's career was once made to provide the stone for the chemical industry in Kohtla-Järve, the chemical industry in Kiviõli and Kunda Nordic Cement. So in this sense, Eesti Energia would already have more historical meaning, more useful and better to take a stone from Narva's career and Estonia's mine, not Aidu's career. What is particularly important about closing Aid's career is that 8 million tonnes of resources remain unused. The Ministry of the Environment made decisions here very quickly, this 8 million tons of oil shale was granted a mining permit, the mines worked through it, calculated that yes, it would be wise to take it, etc., but it is not economically viable for Eesti Energia. Who's the good guy? In the long term, and also immediately, it will be useful for the three companies I was talking about - VKG, Kiviõli Chemistry Combinate and Kunda Nordic Cement. They'd really need this rock, and they'd buy it. The very important resource, the human resource, who is currently working at Aidus, could be used in three or four years' time when the new stone oil mine is opened, to cross over there. In social terms, it would also be very good for the region if Aidu's career were to remain in work. I spoke to our Minister for Economic Affairs about this. He didn't answer anything to me, but his eyes reflected the notion that I wasn't stupid. He promised to consider this matter and look at it more broadly, to look at the resource and also to look at human resources, which is very important. The miners also reminded me that when Mr Ansip was Minister for the Economy, he visited us and made it look like a man who understood oil shale and miners. I really ask you to look through this issue very seriously on these aspects, and maybe also review the Estonian Energia case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U26	Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to answer the question to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I am sorry that you were forced to take a ten-minute break because of me and also those members of the Riigikogu who attended the National Defence Council meeting! But now I will answer the questions raised in the inquiry. The first question: 'Estonia Energia is an Estonian state-owned company. Has the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications informed you of the activities of Eesti Energia in Ida-Virumaa, as these decisions have a major impact on the entire labour market in the region? " In the summer of this year, AS Eesti Energia will stop mining oil shale mining in Aidu's career, as the reserves of the career are running out. The aid career employs 351 people, 61 of whom can continue to work in the Narva career after Aid's career closure, while the remaining 290 workers will be laid off during 2012. A quarter of the redundancies are entitled to an old-age pension or to a pension on preferential terms. Initially, it was planned to implement the liberating staff in the Aidu-3 career, but at the end of 2011 it was decided not to open Aidu-3 careers by reference to economic incompetence. In order to support the redundancies, the company will set up a EUR 1 million fund to direct people to re-training. In addition, AS Eesti Energia Mines will complete oil shale mining in one part of the Viru mine in July 2013. At the end of production, the oil shale that can be recovered through the Viru mine will be exhausted. The large slope of the mining tunnels does not allow for the use of rail transportation of the Viru mine for the export of oil shale. AS Eesti Energia Mines plans to mine this oil shale already through the Estonia mine. There are nearly 8 million tonnes of shale in this respect. The Viru mine currently employs nearly 500 people, most of whom are planning to move the mine to the Estonian mine after the oil shale stock has been exhausted, where the company plans to significantly increase its production volume. Workers are also needed in the New Kiv oil mine that will be opened in the coming years. According to the estimates of Eesti Energia Mines, the New Kiviõli mine would work for 700-900 miners. The permit for the excavation field of Uus-Kivivõli is available on Eesti Energia and preparations for the construction of the mine are in place. According to Eesti Energia, there is an active search for opportunities to offer other jobs or retraining to workers made redundant. The second question: 'The failure to open a Aidu-3 mine may indeed be a decision of short-term economic benefit, but should such a decision not take into account the long-term benefits and the fact that, if Aidu's career is closed and Aidu-3 mines are not built now, the mining of its potential oil shale stock will be considerably more expensive in the future? ' The possibility of using the oil shale stock of Aidu-3 in the vicinity after the closure of Aidu's career was carefully considered. At the same time, several calculations showed that, due to high costs, the price of oil shale produced there would not be competitive. In particular, Aidu-3 was planned as an underground mine, where the ground should be maintained on the whole, with production losses of up to 30%. In 2012, 6.3 million tonnes of oil shale could be produced from Aidu-3 oil shale stock. During production, mining water should be pumped out about 70 million cubic metres per year, both from the careers of Aidu-3 and the closed Aidu. This is a very large amount which would also significantly increase the cost of mining and make oil shale produced there unreasonablely expensive. At the same time, Aidu-3 reserves can also be mined as we approach the south, which allows to leave the barrier behind the water gathering in Aidu's career and to ensure a competitive price for the stone to be extracted. The third question: 'How do you assess the concentration of 290 people in a region where Estonia is one of the highest unemployment rates? Isn't that socially irresponsible? The impact of such mass redundancies on crime must also be taken into account. " I am about to say that it is evil to associate crime with miners. I think the miners are highly disciplined, conscientious people, and I categorically refuse to associate them with crime. But back to the answer. Concentration is always a negative event from the point of view of workers and their relatives, but job creation and job losses are inevitably part of a constantly changing economy. A quarter of those made redundant are entitled to an old-age pension or to a preferential pension. The skills of mining workers have been highly valued by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and this creates a prerequisite for finding work in other companies. The social guarantees provided by Eesti Energia for this purpose or the means of obtaining new employment must contribute to facilitating the transition. As one of the measures, Eesti Energia is setting up a development fund for workers made redundant from Aidu's career to help people cope with change. The objectives of the Development Fund are to ensure income for pre-retirement pensioners until retirement age is reached and to ensure that those who complete retraining courses offered by the unemployment fund have the opportunity to take longer courses and actively seek employment by paying a scholarship to those who have not found work within a specified period of time after the end of the period of payment of the unemployment benefit. Question 4: Does the Estonian state also rely on the help of its neighbours to solve the unemployment problem in Ida-Virumaa in order not to spend their money on it? ' Ida-Virumaa has reported the number of vacancies to the unemployment fund in third place among counties. It is true, however, that there are considerably fewer vacancies compared to the number of unemployed. It must be acknowledged that more than half of the vacancies are made up of craftsmen, equipment and machinery operators, which do not coincide with today's skills of miners. Viru Keemia Grupp AS is building a mine in Ojamaa where an additional 200 people are needed this year. Also plans to increase the volume of oil shale mining in his career by Kiviõli Chemical Industries AS. In a context of high unemployment, many businesses in the region still find it difficult to find employees, in which case the keyword 'good worker' often goes through the word 'good worker'. I reaffirm my conviction, which I once expressed: the miners are certainly good workers. In addition to their skills and technical training, people who have worked in the mine have a good work placement, which can provide an additional advantage for these people. The Estonian state, of course, supports the unemployed, as far as possible, both in securing incomes during the period of unemployment and in re-training; there is no way to talk about pushing the problem to anyone else. But once again, I will express my conviction that the miners will not become unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U28	Thank you, Prime Minister. There's a question for you too. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U29	First of all, for the sake of the verbatim, I would like to clarify once again, although Lembit Kaljuvee has already done so in passing, that the Estonian Energy Council has not discussed this issue. This decision was made on the board level of Eesti Energia. However, I ask the question as a former member of the Committee on the Environment and as a person who has dealt with the oil shale development plan that is in force during this period. The Underground Act, which also regulates the use of oil shale, does not contain a provision that it should be used in a sustainable manner. The development plan does point out that no such individual pieces of our national wealth should be left anywhere. Is it also appropriate to review it more closely at the level of the law so that our oil shale can still be used more sustainably?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U30	Thank you. Sustainable use comes from common sense. Whether all the things that are regulated by common sense, or common sense, necessarily need to be written into the law, I doubt that. Now for decision-making. In principle, the decision-making mechanism for everyone in the Chamber is perfectly understandable. We have an independent company AS Eesti Energia, which makes decisions independently at the board level, and if the competence of the management board falls short, then at the board level. The members of the board of directors and the management board shall also be jointly and severally liable for any damage caused by the company's decisions, wrong decisions or indecisiveness with their own personal property. At least that's the principle. And no law allows the Minister or Prime Minister to exercise telephone rights in order to realise his beliefs in the company. The Minister can make his views known through the board of directors of the company. If the Council does not comply with the will of the owner, it should be said that this is not always the most decisive, for example, the will of the creditor may be even more important, if the Council still fails to observe the interests and will of the owners, without prejudice to the interests of other legitimate claimants, the Minister shall exchange members of the Council. In this case, I believe that the reasons for Eesti Energia are pretty convincing for the Ministry. The resource is basically usable if you approach it from another direction. The continuation of extraction from the current direction would, according to specialists, entail unreasonable costs of pumping out water and no one from the electricity consumers would be interested in unreasonable costs, which will ultimately be reflected in the price of electricity as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U31	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U32	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Maybe I'm incompetent, but is there a general view of where to mine, when to mine, or is it up to the company to decide whether to close one mine, whether to increase the digging, whether to open one mine? Is there such a general monitoring plan, the so-called Estonian mine plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U33	There are corresponding development plans. The issue of mining permits shall be subject to the provision of an exhaustion of a specific resource, including total exhaustion. Speaking in general terms, this has been a problem in Estonia in some ways, that in certain cases there is no economic interest, for example, in exhausting the sand or gravel careers to the end. It is much cheaper to go to the following areas and not to exhaust the resource completely. But the laws are also tough enough to regulate such situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U34	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! In the last two weeks, the trade union of energyists and miners said a pretty strong word politically. In this respect, Mr Prime Minister, I have a question for you: do you not intend to meet this trade union to discuss their problem and talk about the life of Ida-Viru County at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U36	Thank you. As far as I am aware of the applications made by these trade union representatives, however, this is limited to what has been heard only on TV media, they did not have an independent problem. They had problems with the collective agreement law. To be honest, the problems that the union leader presented through the news 'Actual Camera' regarding the processing of collective agreement law in the Riigikogu are deeply incomprehensible to me. I am using this tribute here to say once again: the current collective agreement law is considered by the Chancellor of Justice to be contrary to our constitution. Moreover, it is also contrary to European Union law. It can be taken up even more broadly, it is contrary to human rights, the principle of freedom. Freedom also means freedom of contract, the right to enter into contractual relations and the right to withdraw from such relations, but the current law on collective agreements does not provide for the possibility of terminating a fixed-term contract at the request of one of the parties. At the moment, it is impossible for a party to a contract to cancel a fixed-term contract. When the maturity of a fixed-term contract arrives, the contractual obligations, despite the opposition of one of the parties, shall become forever valid for both parties to the contract. Trade union leaders who have submitted their views to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee have also understood this contradiction and the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee has taken these views into account. According to the new draft, which you will be dealing with this week, if one of the parties to the agreement does not wish to have a fixed-term contract for an indefinite period, it must indicate in writing that it does not wish to do so at least three months before the expiry of the term of the contract. If neither party has expressed its wish to terminate the contract upon expiry of the time limit, the contract shall become an open-ended contract. In turn, it is possible to terminate an open-ended contract on the basis of one half-month notice. And that six months is exactly what the trade unions want. In the initial draft initiated by the Riigikogu on the Committee on Legal Affairs, this deadline was three months. Trade union requirements were fully taken into account. I do not understand the complaints made by the head of the trade union you referred to, as well as the head of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the head of the Transport Trade Union regarding the processing of amendments to the collective agreement law. The demands that have been made at the address of the Government of the Republic to suspend the amendment of this law have been completely inappropriate. Honourable members of the Riigikogu know that the Government of the Republic is not the one who can dictate to the Riigikogu whether or not the Legal Affairs Committee can initiate a draft, whether or not the Riigikogu can deal with this draft. It is regrettable that the trade union leaders have led very many people in Estonia astray.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U37	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There are two regions in Estonia where unemployment has increased, and the number of unemployed is very high - these are South-East Estonia and Ida-Virumaa. According to your answers, 290 out of 351 workers will be made redundant. You can fix me, but I realized that one-quarter of them are either going to pre-retirement or retire, and the rest will still be laid off. You also said that most of them would be retrained. It's a worthwhile thing for people to be retrained. My question is: which positions are in greater demand in Ida-Virumaa and how is it guaranteed that these people will find a job if they are retrained for taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U39	Thank you. Yes, you have quite rightly understood that a quarter of these people are going on either a retirement pension or a preferential pension. Jobs, as I have already mentioned, are the most needed for qualified people. The profession of a miner is not one-to-one what is currently being sought on the labour market in Ida-Virumaa, but according to the opinion of the unemployment fund or Eesti Energia, these people have a relatively high chance of qualifying for these places. I also mentioned that in the near future private equity companies are planning to open new mines where more miners are needed than are currently being laid off from Eesti Energia when Aidu's career is closed. Once again: Eesti Energia will fully support the retraining of these people, a special fund will be created, the state will also support and I am quite convinced that these people will not be unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U40	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U41	Thank you. Prime Minister! In replying to your party partner, you mentioned that the sustainable use of oil shale must be based on common sense. You also mentioned that 8 million tonnes of oil shale resources falling behind the Aide would be too costly to use and that it would be easier and more profitable to start a new extraction elsewhere. Later, you said they'd come back to that Aide someday. Can you specify when you are going to Aid's career for this backward resource, because it is certainly not sustainable management that is just abandoned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U42	Thank you. In my reply, I spent a great deal of time on the extra costs of opening Aidu-3 careers in this direction, as was originally intended to be opened. The quantities of water to be pumped away from the currently abandoned, depleted quarry and opening mine are unreasonable. It's environmental pollution, it's direct economic damage. I didn't say anything was left behind, just rejected or something. The Aidi-3 mine is still a completely independent resource, and it is a question of economic viability of what direction to approach this resource. The energyists of the Estonian Ministry of Energy and Economic Affairs and Communications confirm that mining from the previously planned direction is economically inefficient, and mining from another direction allows the lost resource of Aidu's career not to pump water out and that makes oil shale mining economically viable there in the future. The failure to open the Aid-3 mine now and now is not a waste of resources. That's how I answered my party mate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U43	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U44	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! I'm sure the statements you read here and you talked about were true in most of them. As far as Aidu-3 is concerned, they were correct in the fact that the water resource that has to be pumped out there is a large amount of 70 million tonnes. But it's said to tell the truth and only the truth, but not the whole truth. I do not blame you for not wanting to speak or not telling the whole truth, but I just want to move forward with the debate in this sense, as I asked at the beginning, to go through this again. Indeed, as far as the position of Eesti Energia is concerned, it is now economically damaging for Eesti Energia as a company to start mining Aidu-3. The mining permit was granted to them on accelerated procedures a year and a half ago to continue Aidus' work, and they asked for it to continue working there. Now they're offering it to the VKG, who's south of there and who's really cheaper to operate there. In this case, the mining permit should be taken away from Eesti Energia, put it back on sale or auction, and then the VKG or any other or third would be able to get close to this thing. Eesti Energia was given this opportunity in an accelerated fashion to leave the career to work and people to work, and now she wants to sell it to VKG or Kiviõli. Now, what you said about miners. Yes, people must be treated in a way that is honest and is not criminal. But I worked at the time when we closed the mines there. We followed the situation closely, and unfortunately it was that when these major closures came and unemployment in the region increased, crime also increased. The very good and honest miner, when he was not employed, the children were at home and demanded food, came to the mine, where he no longer worked, from which he had been released, and stole the cable, metal. He knew exactly where those things were. I'm just talking because we don't put a man in a position to let him go and see if we can make it work. I do not know how much or how little the Prime Minister needs to think about it, but he needs to know that, unfortunately, there are such dangers, and that is why there was such a piece of sentence in the question. I also believe that miners are good and good. The work of a miner is extremely difficult, so hard work can be done by good people, of which I am convinced. But now from an economic point of view. I said that this would be good for Eesti Energia. This is not really good for the Estonian state, because three companies will be harmed by the closure of Aidu's career. They've built their production on this rock. For example, Kunda Nordic Cement, where I myself have worked for seven years. I can tell their technology is built on Aidu's rock. They're gonna have to start buying more coal. They're gonna have to recalculate their fuel mixes. In fact, they are going to import fuel, and our own resource is close by. Both VKG and Kiviõli would also benefit from Aidu's stone. So there's a germ and a bean in this thing, it's not just that they just ask and answer. Actually, I think we should think again. I'm asking the government to do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U45	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Very honorable Lembit Kaljuvee! Lembit Kaljuvee, you are a thousand times more specialist in oil shale than I am, and I believe that your attention today will cause those people who have already made decisions to reconsider their decisions once again. They also make members of the Estonian Energy Council wonder whether all the decisions taken so far have taken into account all aspects or not. But surely we should not force any company to work at a loss, whether state-owned or non-state-owned. Ultimately, all taxpayers will pay for this loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U47	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U48	We will move on to the third inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Helmen Kütt, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kajar Lember, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tuld, Neeme Suur, Rannar Vassilyev and Rein Randver on the 8th day of February 2012. The inquiry shall bear number 108 and shall be on the subject of the availability of services. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip answers the question. I ask the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning of the Chair of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U49	Mr President! Prime Minister and Minister of Culture! I would like to begin from the moment that, about a month ago, in the Western County newspaper on the first page of Western Life, a victorious title was published that the liquidation of Virtsu's ATM was delayed for a year. This was a clear victory for civil society at the time, which was actually recognised by the representative of Swedbank, who said that they did not realise that this move could receive such attention. On the third page of the same newspaper, there was a second article that said that the shop car would end up on the territory of the municipality of Nõva and the municipality of Hanila. Virtsu ATM is also on the territory of Hanila municipality. At the same time, we know that Virtus is the Estonian Post office in liquidation. All of this leads to the idea that access to services is not an issue that we can deal with on a service-by-service basis, that we take one service or another service. There is currently a great deal of talk about the organisation of the school network, but it is almost impossible to deal with the organisation of the school network without the corresponding changes to the public transport network. That's where the question comes from. And more. We talk a lot about public services, but in addition to the public sector, the private sector also provides the services necessary for the normal functioning of life. In a number of cases where a private service is not economically viable, such as public transport, the provision of services is supported nationally. In view of the feasibility of normal life, services such as the retail sale of food, the retail sale of motor fuel, the retail sale of medicinal products, data communication and the issue of cash are also vital. Recently, cases have increased where either a public authority or a private undertaking reduces the provision of services outside larger centres, either because of the excessive cost of the public service or because of the lack of profitability of the private service. As a result of these processes, the difference between the quality of the living environment in different regions of Estonia increases and the chances of ensuring a balanced development of the country's territory are reduced. As a result of this concern, a number of social democrats have now turned to the Prime Minister in their question, and we hope to have good answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U50	Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Riigikogu to answer this question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Do you consider it necessary to draw up coordinated accessibility standards for services provided or organised by the public sector, such as road maintenance, regional public transport, drinking water supply, electricity supply, primary care, emergency medical care, law enforcement, rescue services, preschool and basic postal services? ' I believe that determining the level of public services provided by local authorities is part of a local democratic decision-making process, in which the state must intervene only if it is necessary to protect the fundamental rights of citizens and the local decision-making process does not work. It is not reasonable to lay down national standards for the services provided by the municipalities and for the functions performed by the local authorities, since imposing state requirements on the municipal services provided by the municipalities and the organisation of their supply is an important obstacle to the autonomy of the municipalities. If necessary in some cases, sectoral legislation already includes specific indicative or mandatory standards for the quality or availability of services provided or organised by the public sector. For example, road maintenance is subject to road condition requirements, including road surface requirements, levelling and defects, visibility, frequency of snow maintenance work, etc., by decree of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. They shall be mandatory for all public road owners, except for local roads with the lowest level of status, the condition of which shall be set by the road keeper himself. For public transport within the county, the Decree of the Minister of Roads and Communications, 'Guidance on service levels for public local regular services' provides the indicative basis for the establishment of service level standards on municipal, urban and regional routes, such as the rules on the working time of the route, coverage, intervals, the length of the journey until the stop, etc. The requirements for the quality of drinking water are laid down in the Decree of the Minister of Social Affairs 'Quality, Verification and Methods of Analysis of Drinking Water'. The availability of family doctor services is regulated by the regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs on the "Working Guide for Family Doctors and Health Professionals working with them', according to which the family doctor's appointment period is at least 20 hours per week. The family doctor shall receive each working day from 8 to 18 o'clock, including at least one day per week, until 18 o'clock. The family doctor's place of business shall be open and patient registration shall be ensured on weekdays of at least eight hours per day. The availability of ambulance services is regulated by the Government of the Republic's decree on "Procedures for emergency medical care, emergency care and rescue and police services' under the Health Services Organisation Act, which provides, for example, for the departure of an ambulance brigade within one minute if the needy situation is life-threatening, within four minutes if the needy situation is serious and can be life-threatening, and in other cases as soon as possible, but not later than two hours. With regard to childcare services, the municipality has the obligation to ensure that all children aged 1.5 to 7 who reside in the municipality or city's administrative territory and whose parents so wish have access to the children's institutions of the service area. The criteria for access to basic education are governed by the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, providing that at least 80% of students for whom the basic school is the school of their place of residence must not have more than 60 minutes to reach the school and that the possibility of obtaining general secondary education must be guaranteed in each county. In the provision of postal services, it is regulated that the service provider ensures that postal items are collected and delivered to the recipient on all working days and not less than five days a week and once a day throughout the territory of Estonia, and that at least 90% of the simple items are delivered to the recipient on the working day following the day of delivery. It cannot therefore be said that we do not have standards of access to services or public service standards. Sector ministers must assess whether it is possible and practical to clarify the rules in their legislation in order to ensure better organisation and quality of service provision evenly across Estonia. The example can be taken from plans for social infrastructure drawn up by rural governments, as the agreement of similar accessibility criteria will certainly contribute to assessing the availability of the service and planning the resulting measures at local level. The second question: 'If you consider it necessary to draw up coordinated standards for services provided or organised by the public sector, which national authority is responsible for coordinating such activities? ' I do not consider it necessary to appoint a coordinating body. Each minister is responsible for the organisation of his own administration, including the provision of services. However, I consider it necessary to coordinate all the essential criteria for access to services with the Minister for Regional Affairs, whose role in the government is to protect regional policy objectives if they run counter to sectoral objectives. Question 3: Do you consider it normal that the criteria for access to vital services such as rescue services are determined by the development plan of the government area and approved by the minister, but not by the Government of the Republic or the Riigikogu? ' It is important that such criteria are established and sufficient financial resources are allocated to meet these criteria. It is not essential that they are established by the Minister, the Government of the Republic or the Riigikogu. Since the criteria may also be of time-changing size, for example, they are intended to be clarified for some reason, it is quite appropriate that the criteria be set in a more flexible document, where there is a law. I consider it important that the criteria exist, that the criteria are consistent with the budgetary possibilities and that the criteria are respected. Question 4: Do you consider it necessary to approve standards for the availability of services provided or organised by the public sector at the level of the Riigikogu or at least the Government of the Republic? ' I don't think it's necessary. Confirmation of standards at the level of the government or Riigikogu would make it too time-consuming to update them according to changing needs and opportunities. The principle of subsidiarity is a central principle in democratic countries. Political decisions must always be taken at the lowest possible administrative and political level and as close as possible to citizens. It is not a question of standard setting, but rather of deciding on the balance between precepts and self-decision and the balance between precepts and budgetary opportunities. Question 5: "Does the government have an overview of the availability of services essential for the day-to-day administration of the private sector, such as the retail sale of food products, the retail sale of medicines, the retail sale of motor fuels and the issue of cash in Estonian rural areas? If so, how will this information be collected, where and in what form is this overview reflected? ' Nationally, the geography of the provision of all services provided by the private sector has not been mapped on an ongoing basis. The availability of a number of priority services such as postal services, the sale of medicinal products, the sale of essential goods and banking services has been mapped in the framework of the drafting of the county's social infrastructure thematic plans. Today, social infrastructure thematic plans have been established in all 15 counties. The county thematic plans analysed the situation and proposed solutions to the problems of accessibility and location of services in the county. Public support for private banks to strengthen the ATM network in sparsely populated areas cannot be either a priority or a longer-term solution. The county thematic plans established can be used as a basis for regional, local and government decisions and structural reforms on the regional accessibility of public services. For the services covered by the thematic planning, information and proposals related to the availability of services have just been gathered in a single summary at the request of the Ministry of the Interior. Question 6: Does the government intend to influence in any way the availability of listed private services in rural areas? If so, what measures will be taken? ' How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U52	Four minutes and 37 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U53	Question 6: Does the government intend to influence in any way the availability of listed private services in rural areas? If so, what measures will be taken? " It is difficult for the state to intervene in the provision of private services. As of this year, the Minister of Regional Affairs has initiated a new scheme of support for local service centres, which is first tested in three counties in south-eastern Estonia. The objective of the measure is to improve the availability of essential private sector services in rural areas by supporting the activities of village shops and the diversification of the services they provide alongside the retail supply of traditional food products. Question 7: "Does the Government of the Republic intend to influence in any way the availability of the cash dispensing service in Estonia's rural areas? If so, how? " The private services market and location choices are undoubtedly very difficult for the government to target. In addition to the cash dispensing service, it is very important to extend the use of other smart solutions, particularly electronic payment methods, in rural areas. This decision to close the Virtsu ATM, which was not carried out, caused a very large social resonance and led to a misunderstanding, as if in Estonia people would no longer be able to get cash and the availability of cash would be Estonia's main problem. Banks are known to be consumer-led organisations and banks move to where they are largely guided by their services. It's a two-way process. And consumers have gone to electronic banking. The development of electronic banking solutions requires banks to have a fully viable resource. It cannot be assumed that the resource at the banks' disposal would be limitless, infinite, so that this resource could be used equally to develop banking services that will inevitably remain in history and to develop new services. Question 8: "How do you assess the impact of the Estonian regional development strategy as a horizontal strategic document on sectoral policies? ' The current country's regional development strategy is a document approved by the Government of the Republic, and therefore each ministry must be guided by the general principles of regional development approved in the strategy when planning policy decisions and developments in its field. The ninth question: 'In the composition of the Government of the Republic, apart from the Prime Minister, there are three other ministers with a horizontal field of activity, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Regional Affairs. What are the possibilities for the Regional Minister to influence sectoral policies? ' The Riigikogu's decision of 23 February 2011 has approved developments in legal policy until 2018 and the concept of analysis of the effects of the legislation, which allows the Minister of Regional Affairs to consider the adequacy and adequacy of the analysis of regional impacts and the definition of compensatory measures for undesirable territorial effects in the coordination of the draft. The Minister for Regional Affairs shall coordinate sectoral strategy papers and legislation. The Minister of Regional Affairs participates in meetings of the Government of the Republic with a voting right and in the work of the Ministerial and Interministerial Commission. The Minister of Regional Affairs has the opportunity to make proposals to the Government and ministries of the Republic to organise the work of government agencies, local authorities and other state institutions located in the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U54	Prime Minister, thank you. The answer time is up. Let's get to the questions. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U55	There are so many questions in one question that there is enough for several years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U56	Prime Minister! Members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask as many questions as they deem appropriate. You have time, you have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! I, too, have a question of access to services, namely the availability of electricity. Last week, a political strike took place at Narva power plants. How do you feel about playing with people's sense of security for political reasons, trying to intimidate people with less access to such a vital service, as well as the government? Personally, it worries me that our energy security is guaranteed by Narva power plants and people are intimidated across Estonia either for political reasons or I cannot even say for what reasons, by disrupting electricity supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U58	Thank you. Instead of me, the land court has assessed who has banned the reduction of production capacity. That is an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U59	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I was under the impression that you didn't answer the ninth question. If you'd be so kind as to finish your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U61	Thank you. That's what I expected. I'll pick up where I left off. But I have a request for the next time: please prepare an inquiry with a smaller number of questions, make several enquiries, then the time limit will not be exhausted. The final decision, of course, is up to you. The Minister of Regional Affairs can be involved in the drafting of the regional development strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the preparation of other initiatives under the administration of the Minister of Regional Affairs. The Minister for Regional Affairs is involved in committees and working groups on strategic planning and individual issues of sectoral policies. With your permission, I would also read the tenth question and answer it. The tenth question: 'What fundamental measures will the government take to ensure that people's basic needs are better ensured in every place in Estonia? ' The Government shall implement all sectoral policies in the country in order to ensure the basic needs of people, which relate in one way or another to the organisation of the provision of services and benefits to citizens. Each minister shall be responsible for ensuring the availability of services related to his or her area of government. Better provision of basic human needs has been one of the three main objectives of the country's regional development strategy and has played an important role in the implementation of a number of regional development measures. For example, through the development of local public services co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), 2009-2011. About EUR 98 million of investment aid allocated during 2006 outside the five major urban areas. In addition to the state budget, regional investment support and distributed electricity and water programmes are co-financed through which grants have been allocated to better meet people's basic needs in 2008-2010. About EUR 11.4 million over the course of 2008. Better and more coherent geographical security of people's basic needs has been and must continue to be an important priority for national regional policy, but it should be taken into account that specific solutions can change over time depending on changes in people's spatial mobility and innovation in the way services are provided. The provision of services in a more flexible and innovative way is particularly important in a context of thinner settlement. Nationally, the capacity of transport organisation and infrastructure needs to be facilitated in order to ensure better and more convenient access to services. Better engagement of regional labour centres or operational areas has also been identified as a priority in the new draft national plan 'Estonia 2030+' and there are certainly a number of tasks to be carried out through the new national transport development plan. It is also necessary to continue to exploit the potential of information and communication technologies for the wider provision of e-services, and it is the task of the state to ensure the availability of up-to-date infrastructure for this purpose in rural areas. To this end, the government, with the support of the European Union's structural instruments, has started to strongly develop the development of the basic infrastructure for high-speed internet in rural areas. The scope for people's activities and the possibilities for providing services have changed and the way in which services are provided and geography needs to be adapted accordingly. On the contrary, editing cannot be sustainable or effective in the longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U62	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U63	Good manager! Mr. Prime Minister! In recent times, there has been quite a bit of talk again about administrative reform, or rather about the fact that we have not made the administrative reform. Prime Minister, can the administrative reform of local governments ensure that people's basic needs are better ensured in every place in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U64	It's okay. However, as has been confirmed before, better quality of services and better guarantee of services will certainly be more costly for the taxpayer than the current situation. There is no need to create an illusion that administrative-territorial reform, i.e. simply to say, the merger of rural municipalities, can generate financial savings. I refer once again to the research carried out by Professor Wolfgang Drechsler of Tallinn University of Technology on administrative-territorial reforms in Germany and Belgium, which unambiguously confirms that the general government costs per capita in the larger local government increase dramatically after the administrative-territorial reform has been carried out. This has come as a surprise to the organisers, but once the previous reforms have been analysed, it has become unambiguously understood that it could not have been otherwise. Once again: if many processes in a small organisation are self-organizing, processes are carried out under the watchful eye of the community, these processes are no longer self-organizing in the merged large government, they need to be formalised. In addition, it is necessary to coordinate the horizontal units that have emerged. This leads to the need to create new vertical levels and, ultimately, to a surge in administrative costs after the creation of larger municipalities. This happened in Germany after a very thorough preparatory work. The aim was to reduce the number of municipalities by 2.5 times around 1980 (I do not remember exactly the time of the reform). People's behavioral habits were studied very accurately, where children go to kindergarten, where children go to school, where they go to play basketball, where shopping is done, where choir songs are practiced, and where attraction centres were found. The reform was carried out and was very unpleasantly surprised when administrative expenditure per capita increased dramatically. However, a better quality of service is certainly possible in a large municipality and probably also to be expected. That is why these reforms are being carried out. Because if there is one non-specialist in a small municipality, such as a former veterinarian, both a construction adviser and a social adviser, then it is possible to hire a specialist in any position in the large local government. But yes, in a large municipality, this service will be much more expensive for the citizen, the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U65	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U66	Thank you. First of all, I fully agree with your views on the administrative reform that you have just talked about. The Minister of Regional Affairs certainly takes a slightly different view. But I ask you this: do you think that our legislation today is quite sufficient for the Minister of Regional Affairs to be able to play a part in shaping sectoral policies in the case of desire and skills, or is this regional aspect taken into account little? Do you see any need for a law on regional development, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U67	Thank you. The answer here can only be philosophical: legislation can always be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U68	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will ask again about Estonia's regional development strategy. It is certainly not a strategy document to read at times. The strategy is a document according to which the state of Estonia must live, and the Government of the Republic will have to live more. It is on this basis that laws, regulations, state budgets, etc. must be adopted, because this strategy must ensure that our rural population is preserved, services provided, jobs created. As Prime Minister, how do you assess whether the implementation of this strategy has been good or if there have been shortcomings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U70	You keep making me philosophize. I'm sure every prime minister in this chair would confirm that there have been shortcomings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U71	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U72	Thank you, good President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your very meaningful answers! I will ask for clarification on the first question of inquiry when you spoke about accessibility standards. You immediately moved from ambulance to education, so the law enforcement and rescue service was overlooked. I'm particularly interested in the rescue service, because according to the latest analysis prepared by the Homeland Department, nine rescue officers are being shut down. Could you comment on the content of the standards of the rescue service, as far as you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U73	You can't even get over this question by philosophing. This question would require a very thorough answer and a thorough presentation of the material, which I am not ready for at the moment. During the period from 1 January 2001 to 1 September 2010, the Government of the Republic of Estonia Regulation 456, later No 39 "Requirements for the structure, equipment, documentation and organisation of state rescue institutions', was in force in Estonia. This regulation precisely laid down the bases for the placement of national rescue teams, as well as other important standards, such as the equipment and readiness to leave. Fortunately, there were very good standards in place, but unfortunately, the Estonian state did not have the means to meet the good standards they set. Every country, whether rich or poor, faces this dilemma. The mere introduction of stringent weather-proof standards does not guarantee security or well-being, and the tools needed to meet these standards are also needed. But, as we know, the means are that there are not enough of them anywhere, not enough of them in a poor African country or rich Norway. As a long-standing member of the Congress of European Local and Regional Municipalities, I can assure you that the scissors between opportunities and needs are more or less the same, regardless of whether the country is rich or poor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U74	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your answers. Looks like it's all right on paper, and it's all right. I certainly share your view that there is no point in interfering with the autonomy of local governments. But on the basis of these answers, it seems to me that every ministry deals with its own competences, within its own limits, and interference seems to be a violation of the autonomy of the ministries. Life is, unfortunately, something else. The person is relatively careless whether the services are provided by the municipality or the state, but if the chances of receiving the service go very far from him, he feels that the state has abandoned him. That is why I have this question. I understand the Minister for Regional Affairs has a say and a say, but does he use them? Perhaps it would be necessary for the ministries to join and decide where there is no point in living in Estonia anymore? People know it in advance, and then they leave it behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U76	Yes, the regional minister uses his say. But, as is the case with all other government ministers, optimal decisions must always be taken. Decisions with financial cover. We cannot make idealistic decisions that taxpayers have not paid money to the Treasury to implement. I wouldn't go along with any pessimistic scenarios. I believe that the time will never come in Estonia when the government will decide which villages are promising and which villages are unimaginable. I am such an elderly person that I remember the time when my home, my grandfather's house, was considered to be unimaginable and wanted to be transported to visit the village council in the course of land repair. Fortunately, these plans did not materialise then, and there is no reason for us to fear that such plans could materialise in the independent Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U77	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's a call. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Neeme Suur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U78	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The socialist questioning was caused by concern about the availability of services, especially services that have a significant impact on people's quality of life, regardless of their place of residence. However, let me start with a little further and more fundamental questions. The responsibilities of people, individuals and citizens towards the state are quite unambiguous and, by their very nature, absolute. Obligation to be faithful to constitutional order, obligation to participate in the defence of the state, obligation to behave legally, obligation to pay taxes, etc. The responsibilities of a citizen towards the State shall not depend on the geographical location of his place of residence. It has not been heard that a son of a man from a small population is not called to the armed forces because he is from behind the forest. He also pays no less income tax if he succeeds in finding a job. It's a little different with rights. In one part, there are fundamental rights, once again giving an example of the Constitution, as well as absolute, such as the right to state and law protection, the right to health protection, the right to education, the right to home integrity, etc. However, if we begin to examine the reality of the situation, we will see that the ability of people to exercise their other rights depends, first and foremost, on how a person has realised his or her right to choose his or her place of residence. People's rights are primarily realised through the use of the public good. The benefits of society reach people in today's approach through services, whether public or private. The fact that different access to services in different municipalities violates people's constitutional rights has also been suggested by the Chancellor of Justice. In fact, access to services is not so much determined by the self-governing administrative structure, but by the real physical location of the person, without discussing the quality and choice of the service and the relationship between the availability of the service. The situation is very clear: a forest farm, a small town, a county town, a regional centre or a capital has a concept of service availability, so there is also the possibility of consuming social benefits, thus guaranteeing people's rights, infinitely different. However, people's responsibilities towards society are exactly the same. I absolutely understand that it is not possible to guarantee exactly the same services and rights at one point that there will be a reasonable limit. A person who consumes more physical space around him, or who moves away from society, also moves away from the benefits of society. At the same time, however, we should define as a country the concept of a priority service, describe it, and not just according to the meaning of the Small Islands Act. At present, only the Small Islands Act contains a list of priority services, such as police and rescue services, drinking water, mail, electronic communications, electricity supply, transport connections, basic, primary and secondary education and social assistance. What about outside the small island? Is a settlement in the middle of a continent where it is not possible to go to a shop or a family doctor in one day, where electricity supply and public transport are seasonal phenomena and depend on the weather, not an insular settlement? We have another law, an emergency law that determines the availability of services. By the way, in the context of the Emergency Act, vital services are also the availability of cash and the supply of liquid fuel, i.e. services organised exclusively by the private sector. We cannot separate private and public services when talking about life or priority services. When people stop getting bread, the sale of bread becomes a public service. We have a number of laws and the criteria for availability set out in laws or sub-acts. Surely you know that, according to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, at least 80% of students for whom primary school is the school of their place of residence should not spend more than 60 minutes reaching the school. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U79	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U80	The school course for a school-mandatory student on foot must not exceed three kilometres. But did you know, for example, that the police, the ambulance and the rescue command have been assigned a time of departure, or response, but that there is no time to arrive? The current legislative approach to access to services is rather incomplete and open-ended. Recently, the National Audit Office described a situation where a person cannot visit a family doctor in a rural municipality centre by means of public transport within one day. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such requirement. There is a requirement that the bus stop should not be more than three kilometres from walking, but nowhere does it say that there should be a day to visit a family doctor. The most compact approach to the availability of services is in the thematic planning of the social infrastructure of the counties, i.e. the so-called SIP, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2005. Unfortunately, the plans for the regional level are currently very strong documents, not because they do not work below, within the county, but because they do not work above, i.e. when drawing up the state budget. SIPs have been designated, in coordination with ministries, from which point the availability of the service is considered to be problematic. For example, it has been said that the pharmacy, the family doctor and also the banking service and the convenience store should be 30 minutes away from public transport, otherwise their availability will be considered problematic. The question is, what happens to it? Could additional resources from the state budget be available to the municipality that supports the maintenance of the ATM and pays to the company that provides the retail car service? No, it's not, but you could be. In fact, everything starts with a confession. First of all, we should list priority services. Secondly, we should determine the criteria for the availability of these services, or standards, and agree that we will no longer withdraw from a certain level. Why? Because all of Estonia must live. The availability of priority services must not be merely a battle stage for civil society organisations. Why? Because the Constitution says: "Protecting rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U81	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and this has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U82	Let's move on to the fourth question. Its theme is the state's activities in support of top sport. This enquiry was submitted on 8 February 2012. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, will answer the question. I ask Inara Luis to come to the Riigikogu as the representative of the heirs to introduce the questioning of the speech of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U83	Dear Minister, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The National Audit Office still has some reports to report to us from time to time. On 24 January, they prepared a report on the state's activities in support of top sport. We submitted on 8 February. a a question to the Minister for Culture about this. The National Audit Office prepared an audit with the aim of assessing the transparency, purposefulness and legality of state support for sport and the impact of the Estonian sports system on achieving excellence. The audit revealed that the level of funding of the Estonian sports system can be assessed well, but most organisational factors are still at the average level of development. There has been little development of a system of search and development of talent, of a sports career and post-sport support system and of the use of scientific achievements in sport. In the polls of the National Audit Office, athletes, coaches and sports federations found that one of the important areas to improve in the Estonian sports system is the preparation and working conditions of coaches. Trainers' work in preparing and motivating athletes is crucial to achieving excellence. Currently, nearly one third of the senior coach coaching is engaged in hobby work, without a contract of employment, spending personal savings on coaching. According to the National Audit Office, the success of Estonian athletes is largely based on the fanaticism of coaches, as the system established by the state does not sufficiently support professional coaching. In addition to the above, according to the National Audit Office, the current system of funding for top sport as a whole is neither feasible nor sustainable, causing additional costs and administrative burden for both applicants and applicants. The National Audit Office also considers that a situation where there is no legal basis for the distribution of money is unacceptable. The Ministry of Culture does not rely on the Sport Act adopted in 2005 for the distribution of funds, nor on the arrangements for the distribution of funds adopted on the basis thereof, but on the criteria approved by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry in 1997. The National Audit Office says that the link between these criteria and the actual distribution of money is not clear either. Consequently, we have five questions for the Minister. I ask the Minister to read the questions before he answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U84	Thank you. I ask Rein Lang, Minister of Culture of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Last Tuesday, the Committee on Culture held a meeting on this audit of the National Audit Office, where the National Audit Office was able to present its views and respond to them. I very much hope that the members of the Centre Party, Eldar Efendiev and Mailis Reps, who have been present, have informed their group of the results of this debate. I certainly do not think it reasonable to start repeating this debate here now, it would be good if you could get this overview from the Members of the Commission. But five questions have been asked, and I will try to answer them. The first question: 'The Ministry of Culture confirmed that a working group will be set up in the near future to map the problems of coaches. How important do you, as Minister of Culture, attach to the other objectives of greater support for coaches by financial means? " Good questioners! The Ministry of Culture has been working on the work of trainers for quite a long time. We have tried to involve all institutions interested in this. But it has to be understood that coaches work in private legal entities: sports clubs, private sports schools. They're on the payroll, they're not on the government payroll. Although a very significant part of the funds used by clubs and private sports schools comes indirectly or directly from the state budget, the State does not allocate separate coach wages to private parties. So your question is complex. The question is whether all parties will understand what they are doing. It seems that the most sensitive issue is the remuneration of coaches in the form of scholarships. They will be awarded scholarships which will not be subject to social tax, which will deprive them of social guarantees. But the Ministry of Culture's hand is quite short in order to force people not to accept money as a scholarship, but in any case to enter into employment contracts. We have some ideas on how to deal with the situation, but in many ways the question is clearly ethical. We should explain how many coaches there are who, in the form of the abolition of social guarantees, have paid the so-called fee for higher scholarships. This is what we will find out about the data in the Estonian Sports Register. Since 2002 there has been a system of professional qualifications for coaches in Estonia. The Estonian Sport Register contains information about over 3000 people who, by the way, have all received training to acquire the profession and have subsequently received further training to improve and consolidate their professional skills. The situation is that according to the sports register, there are 3284 people in Estonia who have a valid coach invitation. The first level is 1119 people, the second level is 718 people, the third level is 779 people, the fourth level is 549 people and the fifth level is 119 people. The level and refresher training is coordinated by the Estonian Olympic Committee and the Estonian universities, such as the University of Tartu and Tallinn University, as well as the private Sport Training and Information Foundation. It is clear that, in fact, professional qualifications should still be reflected in the financial aspects, i.e. remuneration. The better the skills, the higher the salary a person should be. Regrettably, this is not the case everywhere in Estonia today. I would like to stress that we cannot regard this as a state problem, because we do not have a national sports system and coaches are not on the government's payroll, even indirectly, as teachers whose salaries are actually coming directly from the budget of the Ministry of Education. You have to be very clear about that. When we talk about coach pay, it is a multilateral problem. This is certainly a problem of public funds, i.e. the amount of money allocated from the Ministry of Culture through the budget, but above all, it is a problem of the attitude of private sports schools and clubs and sub-unions. The second question: 'Why is the work of coaches still not valued enough? " Although it is not very polite to answer the question with a question, I say, " What is meant by valuing it? Is it just pay? ' When it comes to pay, I said that it is not just a matter to be solved by the Ministry of Culture when I answered the previous question. You could talk about coaching pay for a long time, but it is still the employer who is the main issue. Due to the system of professional qualifications of coaches, the Ministry of Culture, together with the body that gives the coach's invitation, the Estonian Olympic Committee, has helped and will continue to contribute fully to the training of trainers. Cooperation will also take place with the Sport Training and Information Foundation and universities. This is where we can further develop value. Question 3: 'The last final documents of the Estonian Sports Congress have given attention to all these problems, which were also noted by the National Audit Office's replies to the polls. What solutions have been proposed to the problems raised by the Estonian Sports Congress? ' The problems identified at the Estonian Sports Congress are analysed by working groups. The cooperation between the Estonian Olympic Committee and the public and private institutions is planned to find solutions to the problems described in the Congress, in four years. In addition, in 2011 the members of the Riigikogu formed a sports and exercise support group with which cooperation is possible to find solutions to important problems of a different nature of sport policy. Between Estonian sports congresses, there will be mid-term reviews in the form of sports forums. According to the Action Plan on Sports Systems Problems, between the Sports Congresses, the Estonian Olympic Committee, as the umbrella organisation for sport management in the third sector, is primarily responsible for monitoring the handling of the problems. Our officials participate in several working groups and deal with issues that have arisen there. The Ministry of Culture was given concrete proposals in the final document of the congress on sports that we are implementing in our action plan. For example, since 2012 we are applying the principle of good governance between the Olympic Committee and sports federations, we are planning this year, following a survey of the sports money of local governments and data on sports buildings in the Estonian sports register, to organise an analysis seminar in which we hope to find solutions to the problems together with the local authorities and the managers of sports buildings. Since 2011, we have also implemented the targeting of national sports scholarships mainly for young athletes, and we have created a financial opportunity for team sport teams to participate in the qualification tournaments of the title competitions. For example, in 2011 it covered 18 teams and 6 sub-unions, with a total amount of EUR 100000. We have also taken over Kääriku's sports base today as a training base for top sports in Estonia in order to create training conditions for most sports enthusiasts there. These are all examples of the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Culture at the Estonian Sports Congress. These are the ones we're going to realize. In the future, the plan is to create national developments in the field of sport as part of the country's annual review of cultural policy in front of the Riigikogu's plenary, but this depends already on the processing of developments in cultural policy in the Riigikogu. Question 4: 'The State Audit Survey showed that only a limited number of support services are available to athletes. However, the Ministry of Culture did not agree with the report of the National Audit Office. What in your opinion led to disagreements between the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Culture? ' Yes, here we have seriously different opinions. I would point out that the report of the National Audit Office concerned only the top sport. In the audit, the National Audit Office proposed that the Minister of Culture, in cooperation with the Olympic Committee and sports associations, could develop an action plan to provide support services for top athletes and ensure that information on opportunities reaches athletes and their coaches. The Ministry of Culture considers that the availability of support services in Estonia is sufficiently guaranteed for top athletes. There is a very good level of structure of medical services, training, health research and other support services. The access to free support services for athletes and their coaches participating in the Olympian Preparation Programme shall be given priority. Involvement of sports organisations, athletes and coaches and sharing information is a natural part of our work process. Here we did indeed disagree and hope that we were able to explain our position. Question 5: 'What solutions does the Ministry of Culture see to the problems raised in the audit of the National Audit Office? ' This answer will be a little longer. The National Audit Office itself assesses in its report the level of funding of the Estonian sports system according to the so-called SPLISS methodology. Besides, Estonian athletes have been successful in international competitions. There is a link between funding for sport and progress at international level. Thus, the Ministry of Culture has no reason to accept the general view of the National Audit Office that public support for sport is not transparent, the financing system is unreasonable and the national objectives of supporting top sport are not clear. Nor can it be accepted that the Ministry of Culture does not comply with the legislation in force when granting state sport grants, and that such distribution of money to applicants and the public is opaque and unjustified. We think it is good that there is more than one source of funding for sport in Estonia. This leaves it possible to request money from another source in the event of a negative response. Of course, it is important that there is no duplication of funding. The possible duplication is controlled by the Ministry, and we don't see any problems here. If an infringement is found, the applicant will definitely be asked for the refund. The Ministry of Culture and the Olympic Committee keep separate records of support for performance sport and exercise, and the same can be pointed out in the case of the Gambling Tax Council and the Cultural Endowment of Estonia. The country's primary and most important task is to create the conditions for everyone to have a day-to-day sport. In this way, we have set in the Coalition Agreement our goal that, in 2014, 45% of the population would be covered by regular exercise instead of 35% of the population. Sporting is voluntary in Estonia. Achievement sport and top sport cannot in themselves be an end in itself. They grow out of the bases of the sports pyramid. The state and the Olympic Committee pay special attention to the aspiring athletes and their coaches, creating special conditions for them. The Ministry of Culture has already started to explain the potential economic benefits of top sports and this study has been presented to the public. The Ministry of Culture agrees with the observation that more attention should be paid to the system for finding and developing young talent. In addition to existing targeted national sports scholarships and Olympic Committee support programmes, the Ministry of Culture will in the near future, together with sports federations, discuss the future opportunities for talented young people or junior athletes. The Ministry of Culture has also implemented support programmes to this effect in the past, for example, a project of top sport after-growth which, unfortunately, due to the lack of human and financial resources in sport, was unable to develop further. The establishment of an Estonian sports register has been a major step forward, which helps to clarify Estonia's sports landscape, both in terms of infrastructure and human resources, and also to support sports activities. We agree with the proposal of the National Audit Office to consider, before supporting the construction of new sports buildings or facilities, which sports bases can be built and maintained at all times by society and which bases have sufficient users. This also applies to municipalities. It is very important to make clear in detail how much infrastructure will cost in the initial phase. In the first quarter of 2012, the database of sports buildings in the Estonian Sports Register was completed, based on which analysis further steps are planned for sport investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U86	Thank you! Let's get to the questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U87	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! Today's questioning is about state action in support of top sports, but what I want to ask is what are the plans for the Ministry to show top sports. Your party partner, Igor Gräzin, has, I hear, proposed abolishing sports broadcasts from ETV. After all, when young people see sports competitions, it is a positive example for them to set for their future lives. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U88	Thank you. When it comes to national broadcasting, the Minister of Culture stays shut. The Estonian legislator, whom you are currently representing, has deprived the Ministry of Culture of any opportunity to influence the Estonian National Broadcasting broadcasting policy. We don't have the smallest rights here. This can only be decided by the Broadcasting Council and the members of the Broadcasting Council will be elected by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U89	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, How much do you appreciate the contribution of lobbying to the financing of sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U91	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U92	I don't know how to answer that question. Of course, everyone considers the most important thing to be their own sub-union and their own competition or bringing in some kind of international competition. Everyone tries to explain and explain that his project is the best. Whether it's called lobbying or not, it's hard to say. A hundred percent of lobbying is what is written in the applications, which is why independent committees must evaluate them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U93	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are certainly familiar with the report of the National Audit Office and you are also familiar with the scheme of how the top sport is financed. Here is a complex pattern of which institutions this money comes from and who accepts it. The National Audit Office has pointed out in its report that there is no clear overview of the use of the funds allocated from the state budget and that there is also a lack of reporting that is submitted from the bottom to the Ministry of Culture. I have personally encountered the fact that this report is on a page in A4 format, which simply states certain costs. The National Audit Office says that faulty reports are often presented, but no new reports are required. How do you assess what could be done better to control the financing of sport? What can be done here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U94	Thank you. It will certainly be possible to improve and make more transparent reporting on the distribution of money and the use of money. The use of new technologies will also help to do this. We could make such a decision that in the future we will only deliver all applications and reports online. So far, we have been quite flexible, and some sub-nationals and beneficiaries of funds have also been able to submit documents on paper. We must seriously consider whether to lose this opportunity, as it would be possible to automatically send back invalid applications on the web, for example. We will certainly consider this, although we cannot accept that the current system is completely opaque, as the National Audit Office stated in its press releases. The report is not so categorical. As far as the complexity of this system is concerned, there was an emotional discussion in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. In our view, this system is not too complicated. According to the National Audit Office, this is difficult because there are two essentially identical funds: Estonian Cultural Endowment and the Gambling Tax Council, which provide grants. The National Audit Office already proposes for several times that the sums received from gambling tax, shared by the Gambling Tax Board, could be added to the amounts of cultural capital and thus amend the Gambling Tax Act. The most incomprehensible point in the audit of the National Audit Office was that the Minister of Culture should propose a legislative amendment to the Gambling Tax Act. It's not our jurisdiction, it's the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction. If the Ministry of Finance thinks it's necessary to make this change, he will, we're just here to implement. The National Audit Office was also quite puzzled about why the Ministry of Culture makes a preliminary check on applications to the Council of Gambling Tax. This is again a question for the Riigikogu itself. The Riigikogu has formed the Gambling Tax Council, by sharing certain tools, but has not created an apparatus there. After all, it is reasonable that someone is still processing, pre-estimating and later checking whether the money has been used for its intended purpose. If there is no machine there, one ministry must be appointed to do the job. If the Ministry of Culture is appointed, then so be it, we will try to do our job. If another ministry is appointed, we are very pleased with it. But once again, you can't really approach it that way. This is, in my opinion, more of a political statement that the Ministry of Culture should rethink the political decisions made by the Riigikogu. It's not our jurisdiction. I'm saying a pretty personal position. I certainly believe that the relationship between Cultural Capital and Gambling Tax Council could be reviewed. But we must take into account that the benefits distributed by the Gambling Tax Council are, in certain cases, the most flexible and mobile instrument. This money is allocated every month. For example, if someone needs to go abroad for competitions, they can receive support quickly. Cultural Endowment distributes its grants on a quarterly basis. We do not want to change the system of cultural capital; it also relates to changing the whole logic of IT. So basically, yes, political decision is possible, but it leads to other consequences. The debate in the Committee on Culture was very meaningful and reached a unanimous conclusion that there is nothing inherently wrong with the current system. But yes, on the implementation side and on specific matters, of course, everything can be done better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U95	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, You mentioned in your speech that Estonia's top sport has been successful. I share your opinion, but that is my subjective opinion. According to the Ministry of Culture, what does the term'successful' or'successful rate' mean in the top sport with which we express it, or how do we appreciate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U97	Thank you. That's a very good question. We have set no goals for top sport as to how many medals should be obtained from the Olympic Games or the World Championship. After all, the current Sport Act makes the objectives of sport very clear. It is not where I read that Estonia should start setting some goals for top national sport. Top sport is the top of the pyramid, it comes from the bottom through exercise and the need for self-realization, and society can support it. But I do not think that this can be done by ordering sports organisations or, for example, the Olympic Committee, that they are financed to one extent or another, but then they will have to bring in so many medals from London. I think this era in Estonia is over. We have failed to identify any Member State of the European Union where such targets or medal orders would be set. This complaint by the National Audit Office is amazing and it has been discussed today that such objectives do not need to be set.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U98	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We learned that there are over 3,000 people in Estonia who can be called coaches because they have a certificate of professional qualifications. For the sake of interest, what is the number of people that the Ministry of Culture calls a top athlete?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U100	Thank you for your question. We don't keep that count. We don't have a file we'd write down, who's a top athlete and who's an amateur athlete. The Estonian sports system is based on private clubs, private organisations and sports organisations. Every union and sports club has the right to decide for themselves who they consider to be the top athlete and who they consider to be an amateur athlete. One more time: Estonia no longer has a national sports system; Estonia is a democratic country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U101	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U102	Members of the Riigikogu, after the hammer hit, please register for an appearance in a free microphone! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U103	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Please remember today's date of 12 March 2012. This date should be cut with golden letters in granite and put out in some beautiful places, because today a problem has been solved, which I remember being discussed for more than ten years, that is, as long as I have been in the Riigikogu. This is the problem of whether it is shameful for someone to pressure a government or an organisation. 12 to 13 years ago, it was called 'roof money trading', a lot of talk and accusations. Then it was, by the way, shy. When someone was charged that he had tried to buy a council member or a whole council with the cover money of a school, it was considered shameful. Today we have achieved a very 'beautiful' result when the Defence Police announced that there is nothing illegal about the behaviour of our colleague Marko Pomerants, which is absolutely correct and legitimate. I would remind you that he put pressure on a member of the Toila Vallavoli Council, with the aim of not publishing one mistrust, and he was terrified that Toila might lose a certain amount of money. The news that has come today means that there is no element of crime here; now political problems can be resolved and even boasted about by pressure on local authorities. I wanted to talk to you about something else. When Pomerants explained why he intervened in Toila's dispute of power, he said such words: 'I do not think I will deny the contribution of this time, especially to the Estonian state, that this drawing of the borders of Estonia to different rivers on the west side of the Narva river will stop. " Help is once again called patriotism. Man makes his little political deal, he tries to do it, but the general public explains it with big, important, I repeat, patriotic goals. It's hard to understand if you don't stop and think about what a person really means. It's like in an American movie. Once upon a time, I watched a movie where good actors, such as Richard Gere, played. There was an episode where the same Richard Gere stood between two subway stations underground and passed by a subway train. I thought there was something weird. I looked again, and I took my time. It turned out that the train, which traveled at an enormous speed of 90 or 100 kilometres per hour, passed him for 34 seconds. This gives the train a length of 800 to 1000 metres. Looking at it's like a beautiful thing, but if you go into it, it turns out it's totally stupid. It cannot be said that if a person opposes Roland Peets, the former Director General of the Border Guard Board, he will thereby protect the Estonian border. That's complete stupidity. Of course, you should avoid such things. It's such a small stain on this great news of today's day. I would remind you that there was once an Italian public relations officer in America named Al Capone. He loved to say that a kind word and a pistol can accomplish much more than just a kind word. He also said that the offer needed to be made in such a way that it could not be refused. The two truths he has said will now become the law of our lives, because it is clear from this day on: any politician in power can, in any form, scare or talk about whether or not one or the other municipal project or fund receives any support or does not receive any kind of support. It's allowed now. Congratulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-12_U104	Thank you. There's no more calls. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.27 p.m.
