ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 33 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 68 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Let's go to today's questions. Since we have seven questions registered, I will allow only two questions on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U2	Let's get to the first question. This will be presented by Mr Viktor Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U3	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Arguing about Estonian defence costs is not a patriotic activity at all. That's what I thought until yesterday. Yesterday, data on the world military index were published. This is based on the share of state defence expenditure in GDP. According to this index, Estonia is 35th in the world immediately after Iran. At the same time Latvia is 94th, Lithuania is 60th, Georgia is 59th, the United States is 30th, so almost next to us. China is at 82nd. So, for some reason, we're playing in a league of land with a permanent state of war. As far as I know, Estonia is not fighting anyone. Would it not be wiser to limit the increase in defence spending and target resources where they are needed more in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U4	Estonian defence spending will be 2% of gross domestic product this year and next year, as we agreed when we joined NATO. And this 2% is not merely a commitment, but 2% of gross domestic product for defence costs is essential. Other countries, including those you mentioned, have contributed to the defence capabilities of their country for a much longer period than Estonia has been able to do. We only started 20 years ago and, therefore, 2% of gross domestic product is absolutely necessary, it is not a luxury of any kind. There's nothing special about the 35th place in the rankings you've mentioned. It should be said that, for example, in the UN Human Development Report, Estonia is 34th in the ranking. Basically, in the rankings that show Estonia from a good point of view, we are about there. Of course, we should strive to get forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U5	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U6	Mr. Prime Minister! It is quite clear that, in fulfilling our international obligations, we expect that we will also be helped if we have any military difficulties. But when you look at our neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania are even weaker together than Estonia from their military resources. At the same time, there are more troops in Kaliningrad than there are in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and it is unlikely that the Finns will be fighting with us again, we will give up in 15 minutes, and what will they do with us? But who is this potential enemy? Does Estonia have a defence concept that takes into account our potential enemies? Maybe you should point that enemy's finger in your hand, name it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U7	We have assessed all possible different threats and the likelihood of these threats being realised. I can assure you that the probability of the threats being realised is the lower the better the protection of the Estonian state is organised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U8	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U9	Mr. Prime Minister! No matter how heavily we arm ourselves, we can channel even 100% of GDP into defence costs, we would still not be able to drain Russia with our military powers. At the same time, you could see what is happening inside Estonia. In Saue parish, villagers have set up a night-time neighborhood watch to protect their homes from robbers, gangs of criminals terrorizing residents in Lihula, and police and fire forces are being pulled down. We have quite serious problems within the country and, at the same time, there is no difference at international level whether there are three or two men from us in Kosovo. However, can't Estonian men be pulled out of there and made to carry out their duties in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U10	I am pleased that, at least in some areas, you consider public expenditure to be appropriate. I am pleased that you are paying attention to internal defence and security. Let us inform you that Estonia's expenditure on internal security is higher than that on defence as a percentage of GDP compared to other Member States of the European Union. I attach great importance to both areas for the Estonian state. I would like you to help yourself in matters of national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U12	Mr. Prime Minister! It is nice to hear that you are so confident, but perhaps you would not pay on this matter. We know that during the crisis there were a number of countries that cut their defence costs. And in today's news, it was reported that poverty has increased greatly in the country you run. A fifth of people are in deep poverty! It's gotten worse, even though you've always argued against it in this hall. Estonia's economic situation and people's lives have deteriorated considerably, with a lower standard of living. On this basis, however, perhaps protection costs should be planned more flexibly. In the first Republic of Estonia there were very high defence costs, but we know where he ended up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U13	You'll have claims, one lamer than the other! The claim that relative poverty has deepened in Estonia is not competent. When you read today's press release, you should have also paid attention to the percentage of people living in relative poverty last year. It was exactly the same as this year: 17.5%. This 17.5% is also not extreme in the European context, as compared to other European Union countries, that is the average result. If we look at the tendency of stratification in Europe as a whole, among the 27 countries of the European Union or among the 17 countries of the euro area and compare, for example, between 2000 and now, we see that stratification is getting worse everywhere. In Estonia, however, stratification has decreased during this period. In 2000 there was a difference between the upper and lower income quintile 6.3 times, now there are 5.4 times. In comparison to the longer period, Estonia has been almost the only country in the European Union where stratification has decreased significantly. Yes, I admit that the difference between the upper and lower quintiles has increased since last year. In this respect, your argument is correct, but only in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U14	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U15	Prime Minister! I would add to your statistical line that according to Eurostat's latest data, 23.1% of Estonian people still live on the poverty line. But here's my question. The press has shown that Jägala is not coming to the military campus, while the lack of space in the guard battalion and naval barracks is a major problem. There are more conscripts in them than standards allow. What is the solution to this problem? How can I get more room?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U16	There's room to be built. The development plan of the Defence Forces is currently in the negotiation phase. The public can also contribute to the development plan for the Defence Forces in the coming years. Yes, the previous development plan provided for the construction of Jägala campus, the current plans do not include the construction of Jägala campus, but include the construction of new barracks by Kuperyanov battalion, Ämari, Mineport and several others. The aim is to accommodate all Estonian Defence Forces in modern barracks, and this is the purpose of the development plan of the Defence Forces, which has been given to the people to discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U18	The next question is from colleague Kalev Eagle to Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U19	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Parts! In the final phase of the budget procedure, the allocation for the Väinameride Lines was increased by EUR 600000 on the line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. How will this good news affect the planned increase in ticket prices for next year: will it be smaller or will it be delayed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U20	As a result of this decision, the planned price correction for ferry tickets will decrease by 10% in a more favourable direction for the consumer. In addition, it is quite sure to meet the need for a tighter schedule, which has been mentioned by both the residents and entrepreneurs of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. This is certainly a positive decision, and it will be realised in such a way that it will enter into force on 1 February next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U21	Hurry up, please! Mr Kalev Eagle, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U22	There was a difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U23	It is always good to react once the answer has been heard accurately.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U24	Dear Minister, When is a regulation on new fares to be expected and will they be in force on 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U25	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U26	I signed the order this morning. It will be in force on 1 February next year. The final coordination will also have a precise timetable for the whole of next year. As you know, charts vary during summer, autumn and winter seasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U27	Dear Minister, The tightening of the line schedules is undoubtedly positive news. Can it be concluded that the schedule is increasing on both routes, both in Hiiumaa and Saaremaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U28	This also leads to the conclusion that the schedule is also increasing on the Sõru‐Trium line. If you are interested in the figures, there will be additional crossings between around 900, about 500 between Kuivastu and Virtsu, 260 Heltermaa, 260 on Rohuküla and about 100 on the Sõru route. It's mostly summer season.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U29	I would now like to ask my colleague Kalle Laanet, who has been registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U30	Good Prime Minister and Ministers! Very rarely are the times when the right side of the hall is bowed to the left side of the hall, the same way to the government coalition. I dare to bow down to you for the fact that the inhabitants of the islands and the guests travelling to the island will receive a closer ferry schedule and a more affordable price. However, my question concerns one line in the budget: it is a public transport reserve. There was some EUR 100000 in the form of extra money. Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications intend to use any part of it to ensure closer and better air connections with the islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U31	There's no such decision, but it's on the table. This has been raised by the Saare County Elder, entrepreneurs, including your association of the islands of the Riigikogu. We should discuss this seriously, because if we look at demand with the new carrier now, the figures do not show that this flight should be included on the working day that is missing. It costs more than we were able to supplement the budget's public transport reserve between second and third readings. But for me, this subject is open, we should discuss it, and I do not rule out that it is possible to make this decision here. However, what we should talk about first is indeed this real demand. If there is no demand, then why do we fly additional semi-empty aircraft at the expense of the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U32	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Neeme Suur, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U33	Minister, thank you very much. There is also ferry traffic between Vormsi and it is known that the number of cars carried over the sea is constantly increasing on this route. Are these happy news of the larger amounts of ferrying more efficient also relevant to Vormsi and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U34	It's gonna be like it is this year for the Vormsi part. However, the positive news for Vormsi residents and guests is that we are quite close to concluding a contract for the construction of a new ship. As usual, there are disputes now, but we very much hope that we will be able to conclude a contract for the construction of a new ferry this year or at the beginning of next year. It's probably going to Vormsi and the next ship to Kihnu will be in the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U35	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U36	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! It seems to me that this is not the best days of your government, because several ministers have been under extreme pressure over their actions and omissions over the last few months. Probably the most difficult time is Keit Pentus-Rosimnuste, because not a day goes by if a newspaper doesn't write about the Autorollo scandal on several pages. I wonder why Keit Pentus-Rosimannus is under so much pressure. He seems nice and nice as a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U38	Thank you for your interest. I would like to argue against the first part of your question. This time is a pretty good time for our government, and this time is also a pretty good time for the Estonian state. If you compare economic growth in Estonia to that in other European Union countries, you will see that in the third quarter we were the third largest growth. A year ago the Estonian economy grew by 8.3%, the fastest in the European Union, our public finances are in good order. I don't see why we should be complaining too much right now. Why has Keit Pentus-Rosimannus been attacked by the press? This should be asked, in particular, of journalists and those who have been passing the newspaper for more than three weeks and who have shared various accusations about Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Today, I asked him if he had finally been able to get acquainted with this case, which has been discussed for more than three weeks, and he assured me that he had not had the opportunity to get acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U39	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U40	Good Prime Minister! It seems to me that the pressure on the Minister for the Environment, Pentus-Rosim, is increasing. Aren't you planning on coming to his aid and getting him out of ministerial office so he can take care of his business calmly? Would it not be wise to retake the journey to Kadriorg?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U41	That doesn't make sense. The activities of the company are the responsibility of the members of the board of directors and are also the responsibility of shareholders with significant influence. That the children of the owner of the company or other family members should be liable for any damage caused by the company's actions or omissions, I have not seen any previous practice. Yeah, there's been all kinds of attacks. Some combinations or structures seem very strange to me. I read in an online publication today as if the Keit Pentus-Rosimannus family were still in the road transport business. The closer investigation revealed that this was the husband of Keit Pentus-Rosimitus's ex-wife's sister, and I had great difficulty understanding how it could be a Kid's family. My understanding of the press has been that the journalist must be honest and objective, to strive for the truth. He may never reach the truth, but he must strive for the truth. At the moment, it seems to me that some journalists have been simply in the service of debt hunters, and that does not honor these journalists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U42	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U43	Prime Minister! I'm interested in one more thing. It is as if the Reform Party has learned a lesson and has been a bit of a stick to the government for its part. Do you think a coalition partner IRL could replace some incompetent minister? Perhaps this would also help to increase the government's little support a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U44	There are no incompetent ministers in my government, nor have there been incompetent ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U45	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U46	Prime Minister! How can the Estonian people and the government of the Estonian state understand the progress of the Estonian state so differently? Over the last six months, the rating of opposition parties has been much higher than that of government departments. Perhaps you will not be able to explain to the people of Estonia what the success of the Estonian state is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U47	It has probably occurred in Estonia and other countries before that the popularity of opposition parties has occasionally been greater than that of coalition parties. Once again, I suggest that we make comparable data with other countries of the European Union. They confirm that people are much more satisfied with the functioning of Estonian public administration and state than in the European Union as an average. I have already introduced a Eurobarometer survey here once, according to which, in terms of satisfaction, Luxembourg, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Austria are ahead of us, followed by Estonia in seventh place among the 27 countries of the European Union. Every time you evaluate a trend that has taken place in a country, you should compare your circumstances with those of other countries, and only then draw conclusions as to whether you should try to change Estonian trends or, on the contrary, push them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U48	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the spot, Mr Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U49	Prime Minister! My colleague, Priit Toobal, asked you about the release of Keit Pentus-Rosimine. Instead, I want to express my opinion. Now I do not agree with you; I do not share your optimism about the great achievements of Estonian politics in recent years. Here's what I want to ask you. It seems to me that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also has a huge number of problems. Perhaps the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, should be replaced. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U50	I don't think so. It is quite natural that there are many problems in the administration of all ministries. The government as a whole, and also the ministers individually, are in office to find solutions to the problems. Juhan Parts is just the right man to find solutions to the problems under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U51	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U52	Now, the next question, please. This is from my colleague Kajar Lember to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U53	Good minister! It is good for me to continue here from the end of the Prime Minister's response, because I have questions for Juhan Parts. The activities of Estonian airline Estonian Air have been spoken about in public and in this hall in many ways, but my questions concern management. I very much hope that today I will get an answer from you on whether anyone is actually responsible for the situation that has arisen. The previous chairman of the management board of the airline was certainly more airplaned in his thoughts and ideas than he expected his wings to reach. Our country has suffered quite a lot of damage as a result of this and will probably continue to do so in the future. In poor economic conditions, management errors are much more visible than in the rising market, but when the threat to the sustainability of a company is caused not by objective circumstances but by mismanagement, the question of liability arises. You constantly like to stress that the Minister does not know anything because Estonian Air is a public limited company that operates as a commercial company. That's right! But in this case, the board of directors, the board of directors and the board of directors, are responsible for the damage caused by personal property, as the Commercial Code states. As a representative of the public and shareholder, have you not thought to examine what happened in the company in essence and to make it clear to yourself and the public whether the current situation of Estonian Air is caused by wrong management decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U54	Please, one minute is time for a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U55	I do not have the information from which I could conclude that one or the other decision has been taken in such a way as to allow claims for losses to be made against either the company's board of directors or the board of directors. One thing is real business risk, which may not justify itself and may make economic performance worse. I have no such information that one or the other decision was made on such grounds as to be able to bring a claim for damages. I have not said this before, but I am now saying that a large number of questions about the sustainability of Estonian Air come from an old legacy with very strong financial transfers to the current company. However, it is also likely that the decisions taken when Estonian Air's largest shareholder was SAS were made in the best faith and in the knowledge that they would be made in the name of the company's development. Now, five years later, we are wise to ask whether any decision that was made at the time and which has an impact on the company's current economic performance was reasonable or not. However, we certainly cannot turn a financial claim against the board and the board in this way. That's one. Secondly, I think it would be wise for us to focus on the future of Estonian Air and the long-term provision of Estonian air connections. We have actually been looking for this solution from the moment the country decided to take over Estonian Air in substance. Yes, we must admit that a functioning company with a viable financial base has not yet achieved it, but I believe we will achieve it. Let's see your life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U56	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U57	I'm definitely not an idealist. I consider the formation of companies and the disappearance and bankruptcy of some to be quite a normal phenomenon in economic life. But in order not to be too complicated, I will ask a question in the case of a specific decision. I do not understand how it is possible that Estonian Air, which had a contract for the purchase of sister plants for existing Bombardiers, abandoned it at the risk of litigation and acquired, by means of relatively strange channels, aircraft from the Finnish airline, which allegedly cannot compete with its competitors in terms of profitability. In addition, new types of aircraft incurred additional costs for servicing and maintaining a different fleet of machinery. Should the very strange decisions of the then leaders be looked at in connection with them, or can you convincingly justify the economic soundness of these contracts from the point of view of Estonian Air?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U58	The economic soundness of contracts depends very much on the company's action plan. The specific reason why the company's managers chose to benefit other companies was in fact the fact that the renewal of the fleet with the aircraft of the Canadian airline manufacturer you mentioned would have meant much more funding than it was possible to do. This was the real reason why the company's management at the time started to look for other options offered on the aircraft market. One-sided and different arguments can be made as a result of this. I would leave my opinion unspoken here, and I guess it's all really up to what the future of the company will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U59	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U60	Today we are already dealing with a bit of history here, but it really is about implementing the radical austerity plan needed to revive the company. But why didn't the Ministry, as a representative of a major shareholder, take up one comma a year and a half ago? As far as I know, the FAA already drew attention to serious mistakes in the management of Estonian Air. According to my records, the FAA was very concerned about safety. He saw the risk, in particular, that the incompetent management of technical matters would unduly interfere with the organisation of operations and aircraft maintenance. At the same time, they also had specific complaints about governance style and governance structure. Shouldn't such a distraction have lit the red light already in spring 2011? I ask: was the Minister aware of the serious precept of the Air Force? If so, how did you respond?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U61	The Authority is an independent regulator who must supervise all airlines operating in Estonia, including Estonian Air. It is, of course, also the task of the Authority to ensure that its observations are taken into account by the airline. As far as I am aware, the cooperation between the Authority and Estonian Air has always been constructive with regard to any management during these years and the company has actually taken into account the comments made by the Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U62	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U63	Minister, thank you very much. I, too, will continue with regard to the influence of Estonian Air's leadership and decisions. In fact, the Enterprise Estonia Foundation, in cooperation with Estonian Air, conducted marketing campaigns to increase the visibility of Estonia as a travel destination. Unfortunately, the adverted direct flights are already largely closed. So here's my question: what about the money? Who will bear these costs, perhaps as they are said, in the chimneys?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U64	To be honest, I didn't understand your question, the sound of the microphone was bad. But this probably concerned Estonian Air's cooperation with EAS. I believe that such cooperation is absolutely necessary. Cooperation also applies between EAS and many tourist companies. It supports state promotion campaigns during the tourist season and its impact in the tourism sector can be seen quite quickly. Often, the impact of cooperation between EAS and tourism companies may last a few months. If we look at the development of our tourism sector and the volumes involved, we can say that the tourism sector has also grown steadily in the face of the economic crisis. However, as regards the impact of Estonian Air's economic activity on the Estonian economy in one year or another, it has been very positive, despite even the losses in financial results. In the big picture, all these cooperation projects and funding to the Estonian economy have, in my opinion, given much more back, not just its nominal amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U65	Please ask the last question registered on the spot from my colleague Jaan Õunapuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U66	Mr. Minister! A few years ago, you went to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to talk about the acquisition of the state's majority shareholding in Estonian Air, and then you expressed the opinion that everything was going great and that we would overcome the difficulties. Now it's been a while, and what do we see? We see that the state has to put more money in it all the time. At the moment, the company is in a very strong position. It is incomprehensible to me, too, why when the fleet was replaced, the route was not honoured by agreements with the Canadian airline manufacturer and the lease of Finnish aircraft, which is indeed of questionable value. Here's what I want to ask you. Please tell me why during the last two or three weeks the Saab flights have been cancelled at many destinations. Tell those people who couldn't get on those planes, that's why!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U67	You have to ask the airline. Look, I'm a shareholder representative. If the shareholder's representative intervenes in the operational activities of the airline, Kajar Lember asked about the same thing, this is considered to be one of the most serious management risks from the point of view of aviation safety. By the way, the shareholder may have different interests; as a country, we have different interests than the company's very self-centered interests. Such intervention is a very serious risk from the point of view of aviation safety. But I am certainly also interested in the company's ability to explain to its passengers any current changes quickly and clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U68	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U69	Let's go to the next question. This is my colleague Rainer Vakra to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The end of the year is the time of the summaries. I therefore ask you about the performance and fees of the top officials and managers of state companies in Estonia this year. In the view of the Alliance of Democrats, responsibility must be proportionate to the salary it receives. You, Prime Minister, can only be found in 59th place on this table. Hence the question: Do you think, for example, that the responsibility of the leaders of the Estonian Loto or the Estonian Loto is much greater than that of the head of the Government of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U71	I don't think so. But I do not determine the salary of the chairmen of the board of directors and members of the board of directors of state-owned companies and I do not determine my own salary. You have valued my work for one month as worth EUR 3999 and I am pleased with that assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U72	And now the questions registered on the spot. Once again: Mr Vakra, if you want to ask further questions, please do not wait so long! Please, Mr Vakra, the first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I really would like to hear the reply of the speaker, the Prime Minister, first, and then...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U74	I heard it, too!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U75	Thank you. However, Prime Minister, how do you appreciate the old Estonian people's principle of how to work, so pay? You're ranked 59th in this ranking. I must also mention that this ranking is not satisfied and is not justified by very many Estonian people. Do you agree with my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, sitting behind me, who thinks that Estonian politicians should work in many ways out of a sense of mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U76	People certainly work out of a sense of mission, and not just politicians. I am sure that any profession can only be maintained very well if the work that is being done is loved. Money must not be the only one and the main motivator. I am sure that politicians also do their job mostly for the sake of their hearts and not just for the sake of their wages. Yes, I have, of course, admitted my envy in commenting on the remuneration of high-paid directors of state companies, but my scepticism or envy is not really appropriate. Now I'm serious. The OECD does not accept any interference by the executive power in the organisation of companies' salaries. The government may not, in principle, dictate to the board of directors of companies how much or little the remuneration of a member of the board of directors of one or other company may be. Since the members of the company's management board are, in principle, also jointly and severally liable for the damage caused to the company by incorrect decisions or indecisiveness of their personal property, the determination of their salary should in principle be different from the determination of the salary of politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U77	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U78	Let us look at this broader picture of the relationship between responsibility and pay. For example, the Police and Border Guard Board employs more than 6,000 people and the Road Administration 545 people, while the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board has a salary of nearly 3500 euros and the Head of the Road Administration has a salary of more than 5000 euros. What's your position? Is that what you think it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U79	How much more do I have to admit to my envy? My point of view is known. In my opinion, wages above the Prime Minister's salary are too high in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U80	Two issues registered on-the-spot. Let's start with colleague Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U81	Mr. Prime Minister! I agree that the Prime Minister's salary must be decent and dignified. The representation of Estonian official positions, both in Estonia and outside Estonia, is certainly included in this salary number. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu coordinated Estonia's positions for the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on 10 December. I've checked, the paper we've been given doesn't carry the AK mark, so I'm referring to it. The official position of Estonia is therefore that we strongly condemn the plan to extend Israeli new settlements as a violation of international law, and that this step will also not contribute to finding a solution in relations between the two countries. My question to you: during your recent visit to Israel, do I not find in the press release on the government's website that you have also expressed this official position of our government and, if so, at what meetings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U82	I do not think that this is a high-level pilotage when it comes to the issue of the salary of the head of government on the issue of Israeli settlements. I am prepared to answer you in substance and debate on these matters, but I consider it inappropriate, in breach of the rules imposed by the Riigikogu itself, if the question is one, but something else is asked. Yes, Estonia supports the two-state solution. The solution of the two countries is not very much lacking; the biggest deficit is on the Palestinian side. If the Palestinian representatives confirm that Israel, too, has the right to exist as a country, I think this is a very big step towards a two-state solution. There is, as we know, no such assurance at present, the recent opposite assurances that the State of Israel must be destroyed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I repeat to you: please, we will remain within the scope of this issue. And now the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U84	I promise I'll stay within the scope of the subject. Good Prime Minister! The faction of the Centre Party has issued a draft law aimed at regulating the salary of the leaders of state companies and linking them to the salary of the Estonian President. The draft has already been discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs and during this debate a representative of the Centre Party suggested that the Prime Minister's salary should not be significantly lower than that of the board members of state companies, as the Prime Minister's responsibility is clearly greater than theirs. Question: as Chairman of the Reform Party, could you and your political party discuss this issue so that the draft law of the Centre Party is not brutally rejected, but really discussed. We believe that the responsibility of the members of the government is greater than that of the board members of state companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U85	I'd come back to the very beginning. I think the Prime Minister's work is well paid. This nearly EUR 4000 monthly salary is a very good salary given Estonia's circumstances. Thank you for that salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U86	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U87	Next is Mr Aivar Riisalu's question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U88	Good President! Good minister! Recently, the subject of renewable energy charges and the government's plan not to significantly reduce renewable energy charges have been fueled by a great deal of passion. I think that our party's position is that it is even a sensible plan. How do you assess the analysis of the Banking Union and the statement that it severely worsens the credibility of the economic environment in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U89	As far as I am aware, this debate has been very constructive in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The views of the various stakeholders have also been heard. Of course, the government wants this draft renewable energy charges to be adopted as soon as possible. We have had two main positions: the burden on consumers must be reduced and the state must have control over the amount of renewable energy supported up to 2020. The statement by the Banking Association.. and I think that all other positions of professional associations can also be placed in the same Members of an experienced Riigikogu know that such statements are still accompanied by a decision concerning one or the other specific business interests. Certainly the government is also interested in ensuring that no wind power producer goes bankrupt. I assure you that because of this draft, which the government has submitted, no wind power producer will go bankrupt unless they themselves are very incompetent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U90	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U91	Good minister! The brave behaviour of the government is fully recognised by the opposition as a source of satisfaction in all ways of alleviating the situation of the consumer. Now, however, your opponents claim that the banks' unwillingness to invest in renewable energy projects could be much stronger in the future. Your opponents even claim that now there will be no new investments in Estonia. My question is: how much we want to allow this renewable energy here in Estonia, because, as we know, above all, in the case of wind, we also need to have a way of compensating it if necessary. Do we have the limit that we don't want them here anymore, and now we can act courageously?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U92	We are interested in diversifying the electricity portfolio. But we are also interested in making investments that are economically competitive. The consumer will be able to support these investments to the extent that the country's international commitment up to 2020. Ideally, we should arrive at a market-based investment in energy production without any support, just as it has done in many cases today to achieve the share of renewable energy. The saying that no one is investing anymore, no one is coming to our market, everything is very bad, I honestly cannot take them seriously to the end. You referred to an appeal to the Banking Association. Ask the Banking Association how they assess the risk that the existing investments, after all, have been partly funded by banks in a situation where there is no European Commission State aid authorisation. In the absence of such authorisation, the consequences should be well known to creditors. Ask them how they feel about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U93	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U94	Good minister! I assure you, I am firmly convinced that you are doing the right thing. Let's just say that I fully support this kind of action. But here's my next question. Let us imagine that the pressure of lobby groups on the government is getting so great that this plan must be withdrawn. Could it then be said that, in order to improve the consumer's situation, we are, however, somewhat reducing the electricity excise duty, which the Centre Party was also trying to achieve in the budgetary process? In fact, it is an instrument that will help to revitalise the domestic economy and, in the long term, will enable new jobs to be created so that more people can contribute to the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U95	Your praise to us is so overwhelming that it seems to me that you want to join the coalition in one way or another. I am thinking specifically of you, Mr Riisalu, I remember our discussion during the first reading of this draft when you directly attacked your party chairman, Mr Savisaar. Now you're still trying to build some kind of bridges. I think that let us focus now on the rapid reduction of renewable energy charges, then we do not need to think about what if there were something. And then try to secure your party's vote of support when it comes to voting, not running out of the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U96	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with Rein Randver.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U97	Dear Minister, The renewable energy charging support system has been developed in 2007 and businesses have now said that it was a clear sign for them to move forward on this issue and investments were made with this aim. Now, rather, we can see that it is becoming a pilot project, the whole system may not last very long. My question is as follows. As Estonia is a Member State of the European Union, we have made a commitment that by 2020 we will have 20% of the total energy consumption of renewable energy. There is also effective control over this 20%. Can we cope with this challenge if we are to regulate renewable energy charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U98	The answer is yes. I can explain in detail that in view of the international commitments, we have increased the share of renewable energy much faster. As a result, consumers are paying more. I think that the situation would be more balanced if we were to achieve linear growth, so that consumers would not have to start paying more at once. That's what the government bill is asking for. Of course, we must do this in such a way that the meaning of the investments we have made so far is not put at risk. In my opinion, the government's bill takes due account of this. The proposal also provides for the most sensible option from the consumer's point of view to increase the share of renewable energy if this is not done on a market-based basis. The growth in our electricity consumption has reached the point that we need to start adding more renewable electricity to the portfolio. Until 2020, this draft will provide very good solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U99	Please take the last issue registered on site, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U100	Mr. Minister! I dare say that in recent months at least two rather poorly prepared draft laws have come from your ministry. One is the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety, which has been adopted in this Chamber, and the other is the package of amendments to the Electricity Market Act, which has passed first reading, but which are currently being debated. I am a member of the commission responsible for this draft, but I do not know what option we will finally come up with for the second reading. You yourself came up with an issue concerning State aid. I asked your ministry representative in the Commission on Monday this week whether it was possible that, since there was no State aid authorisation in 2007-2012, Brussels could start proceedings against Estonia and start charging us for this fee. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U101	State aid matters fall within the competence of the European Commission. I will answer this question by saying that lawyers have different opinions, some by saying so, and others by doing so. I think they both have their own truth in them, even though they are the opposite. The solution would be if we were to take all European rules very closely into account in the mid-term debate between the first and second readings and could adopt a draft that is in line with all the State aid guidelines on renewable energy. In that case, hopefully this issue will fall off the agenda. This has also been the intention of the government. We have negotiated investments so far, given the rules on state aid and the interests of consumers, and have managed to bring a certain compromise here before you. If everyone gives in a little bit and doesn't hold their blanket very tight, then I think the solution proposed is quite reasonable until 2020. I myself feel that I have made compromises that I may not have wanted to do, but the world is not perfect, in my case, not all wishes will come true either. This is a compromise from very many sides, and I actually think that all those manufacturers that are going behind these doors are also going to have that in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U102	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U103	Let us now go to the last question, which is from Deniss Borodich, as well as the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U104	Good chairman of the sitting! Good minister! I, too, have a question of renewable energy, but from a slightly different perspective: how do I finance it? Global energy has taken a clear direction to reduce CO2 emissions and, on the other hand, to increase the share of renewable energy. A very clear financial mechanism has been put in place to motivate these activities: those countries that are unable to reduce CO2 emissions will have to buy more quotas, while other countries that are successfully implementing the programme will be able to make a profit, i.e. sell CO2 quotas. Estonia has been quite successful in implementing the programme, which means that the state of Estonia earns money when selling CO2 quotas. It would be logical to conclude that this money is being used by Estonia to further develop renewable energy. Why don't we go this way? Why is money not taken from the amount of CO2 quota sales to support renewable energy, but from the person's pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U105	These are different proportions. If we look at the potential future revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas, then the situation in which we can sell CO2 quotas as a country and some revenue is generated is known to change from 1 January 2013. And given the burden on consumers to support the investments of renewable electricity producers, the proportions vary. But we also have the relevant draft tabled by the Social Democrats. That's one. Secondly, this potential revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas should be invested in undertakings which could otherwise not be carried out under market conditions. In my opinion, we should allocate the maximum revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas from the future to increasing the energy efficiency of buildings. Energy efficiency reserves are the largest in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U106	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Our last Question Time this year is over, finishing Question Time. Many thanks to all colleagues for asking questions. Thank you to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U107	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 12th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U108	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I have the honour to give the draft decision to the Riigikogu procedure 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic'. Its content is the proposal to accede to the 1960 UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education, which requires the adoption of a decision by the Riigikogu and a proposal in accordance with the Government of the Republic. Estonia was advised to accede to this convention by the United Nations Committee for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in 2002, and one of the reasons for the recommendation was insufficient reduction of discrimination in the field of education. Under the Convention, Member States are not only obliged to ban all forms of discrimination, but also to emphasise equal opportunities and equal treatment for all at all levels of education. I will give you a short list of countries where this convention has been ratified. These are Denmark, the Czech Republic, Germany, Finland, France, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Sweden, plus dozens more countries. So we hope that we will cooperate successfully on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U109	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft decision and if it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to grant this procedure within three working days. Now a couple of messages. First of all, I passed an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Secondly, the Board of the Riigikogu accepted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Turkmenistan on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated on 17 December and appointed the Finance Commission as the commission. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U110	Let us begin the discussion of today's agenda items. The first item on the agenda is the second reading of Bill 312 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the peace-building mission in Kosovo' presented by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my fellow Member of the National Defence Committee, Tõnu July, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this draft decision, Estonia will continue to participate in the NATO-led international mission KFOR, based on United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. According to the draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligation arising from NATO membership. Currently, one of the senior officers of the Estonian Defence Forces is serving at KFOR headquarters in Priština, and another senior officer will be added next year. As of 30 November, 5565 military personnel from NATO Member States and other countries participate in KFOR. In addition to the Defence Forces, Estonia also contributes to the Kosovo civilian mission EULEX. The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 7 December 2012. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 12 December at 5 p.m. for amendments. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading at the meeting on 13 December, where it decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that it be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 December for the second reading. On 13 December, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Conditions, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the Riigikogu's draft decision 312, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U112	Thank you very much, Mr Juul. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks again. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to this draft and we can therefore go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo', Bill 312. Please vote! 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there were no respondents and 2 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U113	The next item is the second reading of draft 313 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan'. I would like to ask Mrs Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion was completed in the Riigikogu on 7 December. a. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for the submission of amendments and therefore, at second reading, the text of the draft decision in its first reading must be based on the text as amended. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading at its meeting on 13 December, where it decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory statement for the second reading and to propose that the Riigikogu Board include it for the second reading of the draft decision in the Riigikogu. a on the agenda for the meeting on 19 December. According to the draft under discussion, the deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces will be extended until 31 December 2013 by the International Security Assistance Force Mission in Afghanistan, led by NATO. The ISAF is NATO's most important military mission, to which the relevant UN Security Council resolutions extend. On 9 October this year, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2069 extending the current ISAF mandate until 13 October 2013. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided on 13 December. a by consensus, propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision 313, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thanks again! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either, so we will go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan', draft 313. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U116	The next item is the second reading of the Bill 314 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft Riigikogu decision was also completed on 7 December. a. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments, i.e. 12 December at 5 p.m., and therefore, at second reading, the text of the draft decision, as amended, must be taken into account. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading at its meeting on 13 December, where it decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading and to propose that the Riigikogu Board include this draft decision for the second reading in the Riigikogu. a on the agenda for the meeting on 19 December. The military observation mission under discussion is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. UNTSO is also specified in UN Security Council Resolution 72 of August 1949. Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission since 1997. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. This is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided. At the meeting on 13 December, by consensus, the Riigikogu proposes that the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu be terminated, that the draft be put to the final vote and that the Riigikogu be adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U118	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. There are no questions. Thanks again. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either, so we will go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian state's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', Bill 314. Please vote! 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U119	The next item is the second reading of draft decree 315 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' presented by the Government of the Republic. Lauri Laas, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U120	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 7 December. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was 12 December 2012 at 5 p.m. No amendments to the draft have been tabled, and the text of the draft decision must therefore be read in second reading in the amended form. In 2013, according to the draft, the Estonian Defence Forces' demining team, intelligence unit and logistics team will participate in the NATO response forces, or NRF, up to 20 members of the Defence Forces in total. A few words from the general principles of the draft. Namely, Estonia's participation in NATO's response forces is due to Estonia's NATO membership. All NATO Member States contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have its own defence forces. The NRF is also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operation, if necessary. Therefore, participation in the NRF is also related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for a collective defence operation under the NATO Treaty in accordance with the UN Charter. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the NRF can only be used with the consent of Estonia. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading in its s. At the meeting on 13 December 2012 where he decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory memorandum for second reading and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft decision be included for second reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 December 2012. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided. a On 13 December, by consensus, the Riigikogu proposed that the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision be terminated, that the draft be put to the final vote and that the Riigikogu adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. You have a question. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, please tell me, do you have any information that if we participate in the European Union's anti-piracy operation, Atalanta, will there also be cooperation with private security companies in the fight against piracy? We know that at least one private security company in Estonia is represented in this region. Can you comment on whether there will be any cooperation now or in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U123	It seems to me that this is a question of the next draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U124	Yeah. Thanks to the questioner! As I touched on NRF in my presentation, including Estonia's contribution to the NATO rapid reaction forces, I would be happy to leave the answer to this question to my colleague Marianne Mikko, if the questioner does not mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U125	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Laas. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either, so we can go to the final vote on this draft. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' draft 315. Please vote! 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U126	The next item is the second reading of the draft of Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta' presented by the Government of the Republic. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Committee of the Speaker's Board, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision under discussion was completed on 7 December 2012. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for the submission of amendments and therefore, in second reading, the text of the draft decision in its first reading should be based on the text as amended. According to the draft, the Estonian ship defence team will continue to participate in the European Union anti-piracy operation Atalanta. Of the Estonian Defence Forces units participating in foreign missions, our Defence Forces unit in Atalanta is the second largest. The largest unit is, of course, on an ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Anti-piracy operation Atalanta is the European Union's most important military operation. It is also the first military maritime operation of the European Union. As a Member State of the European Union, Estonia is important to contribute to the European Union's common security and defence policy. An excellent example of this contribution is precisely participation in the anti-piracy operation. By decision of 23 March 2012, the Council of the European Union extended the mandate of Operation Atalanta until 12 December 2014. In addition to the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, I note that the United Nations Security Council has extended its mandate. a the mandate of Atalanta for a period of 12 months by Resolution No 2077 of 21 November 2008. Next year, the Estonian ship defence team will participate in the French warship. I would point out that piracy is also punishable in Estonian law. Paragraph 110 of the Penal Code provides for imprisonment of up to 20 years for piracy. Before the second reading, the National Defence Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 December and decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft decision and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included for the second reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 19 December 2012. On 13 December, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Conditions, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the Riigikogu's draft decision 316, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U128	Thank you very much, Mr Mikko. Please, Mr Kalle Laane! I guess now you're asking the right question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U129	Thank you. I have to apologize first, but there's a buzz and noise in the back of this room that doesn't say what the waitress says. Aivar Riisalu is especially disturbed by those sitting in the hall. I'm asking the same question that now goes to the right address. Can you tell me if there is cooperation between Atalanta, the European Union mission and private security companies at the forefront of the fight against piracy? If so, how close is this cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U130	We did not discuss this directly. However, the offenses came out in such a way that, above all, it is cooperation between the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U131	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mikko. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either, so we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta'. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U132	The next item is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the International Military Headquarters of the European Union'. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U133	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft Riigikogu decision was also completed in the Riigikogu on 7 December 2012. The deadline for submitting amendments was 12 December at 5 p.m. No amendments were tabled and therefore, in the second reading, the text of the draft decision should be based on the text as amended at first reading. More about the draft decision. By decision of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 8 (12) of the International Military Cooperation Act, the limit of the number of members of the Defence Forces who may participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the operational area of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which is a new operation led by NATO or the European Union. The Riigikogu gives such a mandate only to participate in new operations, i.e. it does not apply to ongoing operations. The draft decision of the Riigikogu defining the limit shall be submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic and the limit for the members of the Defence Forces shall be determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. Such operationality is essential and necessary in military terms. If the Riigikogu's decision on the participation of Estonian Defence Forces in the service of NATO or the European Union's military headquarters on a new military mission were to be made "normally," the corresponding draft should pass the round of government coordination and the two readings prescribed for the Riigikogu. This means that it would take too long for the Riigikogu to take a decision, and the operation may have already ended by the time we have decided. One example is Libya. According to the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, the 2013 limit is up to five members of the Defence Forces. The National Defence Committee considers that contributing to the new military operations of NATO and the European Union is a priority for Estonia and is directly due to Estonia's membership in NATO and the European Union. In addition, Estonia participates in the decision to start new operations managed by these organisations. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before the second reading at its meeting on 13 December, where it decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft decision and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda for the second reading of the Riigikogu on 19 December 2012. On 13 December 2012, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the Riigikogu's draft decision 317, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U134	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. There is at least one question for you too. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, Aivar! What do you think, as a good defence ally, that headquarters is not in a crisis situation, but in a safe country? The other part of the question is how you appreciate the work of our officers at this headquarters and how it is appreciated by our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U136	However, this draft decision does not directly regulate the activities of NATO headquarters. There, according to membership agreements, are officers' seats in advance. With this draft decision, we are essentially asking Parliament for a mandate to participate in an undeveloped war. I stress the rural languages that, if there is a problem anywhere, we take Mali in North Africa, for example, and the European Union decides to respond to it, we will be able to send up to five defence forces to the crisis area on the basis of this five-member mandate. They shall be able to leave operationally within the framework of this mandate and shall also participate in the work of the operational staff involved in the management of a specific operation. If we were talking about stationary headquarters, which are always there, we could really handle these things 'normally', we would have enough time for that. At the moment, we are giving a mandate to the Defence Forces as an advance so that they can use the decision we have made as necessary if the situation gets complicated anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U137	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U138	Thank you very much. Good colleague! What good is it for you to say to your groupmates who today questioned the defence budget and, for example, to suggest that some mandates could be "packed up" so that there would be good luck for the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U139	Thank you, good questioner! You touched on the very right subject, and I was wondering if I was gonna swing a finger from this remote. Since you helped me right now, I'm gonna do it. First of all, I will point my finger at the entire House in a situation where we issue our foreign missions mandates from the hall with 53.56 votes in favour. Let's just say I've been heartwarmingly looking at the sock bench today. They've been kind of thoughtful about national defence in their earlier statements. But today's soccer participation in the vote on missions has been very positive and has instilled confidence in Estonia for me. I cannot say this about all my colleagues, even less about the coalition, who should have been sitting in this hall in corpore, because they have government responsibility today. Forgive me, but what do our soldiers think if we send them to the mission with 56 votes in favour? Embarrassing! As for my partymates who took Question Time to discuss the general principles of national defence, I say frankly and honestly, risking a great deal of not taking them seriously. If they see the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, Andrus Ansip, they will ask for anything so that they can attack him somehow. I don't think they meant anything at all. The official position of the Centre Party is that we support national defence funding of 2% of GDP, we support the military service and the structure of Estonian national defence as such. Unfortunately, sometimes people who see the Prime Minister get upset in the Riigikogu. In fact, they are by their very nature good people and did not mean anything serious by what they said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U140	Excellent! Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U141	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your bold answer to the speaker. Here's the question. You pointed out here that 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this decision. What percentage of public support could there be? Do we represent the people or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U142	If we take the support of various power structures among the people, including the Defence Forces and the Defence League, I cannot tell you the exact figures at the moment, then I think that the support of the Defence Forces among the population has not fallen below 80%. A deep bow to the Estonian people for this! I think that the support of the Estonian people for foreign missions has been higher than the average, in any case greater than in many, say, countries comparable to us, such as Latvia and Lithuania. I also think that the Estonian people are proud of the national defence system that we have promised ourselves, frankly and frankly, from somewhere next to the country's stomach. Latvia and Lithuania have not done so. Again, a deep bow to the Estonian people for this! If we asked the people whether they would be in favour, for example, of dividing national defence costs into one-off grants in the eradication of poverty, I assure you that no Estonian (may be an exception to the rule, I cannot be responsible for that) will support it, especially older people and pensioners who may be in trouble at the moment. They remember a slightly different time, and I do not think they want to receive pensions or other social benefits from another country that has paid us pensions in the past in this region. This is why I believe in Estonia and the Estonian people, and I think that national defence is an area where we cannot relax and where we must not, under any circumstances, go down the path of speculation. Once again, a deep bow to the socialists for acting like this today!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U143	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U144	Good Aivar! I get it, we're all proud of each other right now. I'm proud of you, too, because you say what you mean and you say it straight. You know how much it takes! But I'll come back to the subject. I understand that the Centre Party in general does not seriously think about defence issues when they vote for or against them. Please tell me, isn't the Centre Party usually serious about other things? By the way, it seems to me that this is the way they are bull ladies who really don't mean anything. But I want to hear it from you. If, for example, the state budget, where defence issues were very important, they did not mean it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U145	Dear colleague Igor Gräzin! The first and last names in your passport assume that you do not quite understand the Estonian language. There's nothing we can do about it. Based on your legal education and legal status, you could expect to understand things, even if they are spoken in Estonian. I spoke plainly today, but I repeat this one to one because 'osobo's vagina povtorjajetsja', or 'especially for the stupid, repeat'. Individual members of the Centre Party who see the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia lose consciousness for a moment and may, as a result of their thoughts, ask questions personally from the surface. This does not reflect the Centre Party's views on national defence issues. Indeed, the allocation of 2% of GDP to national defence was not under discussion in the process of dealing with the state budget. There were a number of budgetary problems under discussion, in which the opposition and the coalition had disagreements. The opposition had the full right to exercise its democratic right to carry out such budgetary discussion procedures. The Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia was moved to a completely new qualitative level as it was possible to discuss the drafts in substance. In doing so, we showed our constituents, our people, that we are dignified, wise and active in representing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, However, let us stick to this fine draft decision. Let us not extend the debate very much. Otherwise, we can go back to the next night's session. I repeat, let us stick to this draft decision, please. Good colleague Imre Sooäär, your second question. And I ask you a question about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U147	Thank you, good manager. I have a question about this bill. The answers were very good, but in the context of this draft, do you agree to reconfirm your partymates who made other statements here an hour ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U148	My partymates have not put forward any other points of view here an hour ago. My party associates probably asked questions because of personal motives because of the situation. I repeat over: The Centre Party unanimously supports all the defence-related drafts, defence policy and nuances of the Republic of Estonia in both the committee and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Centre Party has no different opinion in this area, in any way different from the opinion of the Socialists, Reform Party, Fatherland and Res Publica Union. On the subject of Estonian national defence, we have a consensus and it will remain so, I hope, in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U149	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Perhaps you will explain to the representatives of coalition parties that different opinions are allowed in our party and that they are also spoken out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U151	Indeed, Mr Tamm touched on the very right subject. The Centre Party has also held very substantive debates at its group meetings on issues relating to specific draft missions. Members of our party certainly have a considerable number of different opinions on a personal basis, but if we decide to represent such a defence policy as a political party, we will in any case support these drafts in this Chamber, as we have done today, on a case-by-case basis. And when I admonished all of us on the question of whether the 53-56 vote in favour of a single draft mission was sufficient, there was no specific charge against anyone. It was only my sincere request from the patriot of the country and from the Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee that we all act more responsibly together in this regard. Then our real boss, or people, will see that we think that what we are doing is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U152	Thank you, good waitress. I have the same suggestion as Mrs Ergma, that we are discussing the subject relating to this item on the agenda. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U153	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There were no amendments to the draft decision and there were no amendments to the previous draft decision. Are the topics of the Defence Forces not encouraged to propose amendments? Or are the materials from the Government of the Republic and the Commission so well prepared that it is impossible to propose amendments to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U154	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the Government of the Republic and the National Defence Committee are such good drafts that there is no need to propose amendments to them. The National Defence Commission is the captains' committee and the captain has two lives. Captain can't be wrong, and that's why our bill is always what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U155	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. As the draft must be put to the final vote, we are preparing for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union's international military headquarters'. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft has therefore been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U156	The next item is the second reading of Bill 309 of the Act amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U157	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs. The preparation for its second reading took place on Thursday 13 December, on the grounds that amendments had to be received by that time. No amendments were received from outside the Commission, from the political groups. However, as I told you at first reading, the Commission was at the time preparing its own amendments. Two amendments were introduced in the draft. The first amendment concerns the interval between the increase in the auction. In the current text, in § 881 (5), this interval is 2 to 60 minutes. The Commission consulted the representatives of the auctioneers and the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators and considered that it would be sufficient for this interval to start within one minute. The Commission supported this proposal by consensus. The second amendment concerns the entry into force of the draft and certain sections of the draft text. Paragraph 1 (10), (15) and (20) of the draft in question will enter into force, according to our proposal, the day after the publication in the Official Journal of the State, the remaining points in general order. On this proposal, too, there was complete consensus in the Commission, i.e. 8 people were in favour, there were no respondents, no abstentions. Now for procedural decisions. We decided that a second reading of this draft should be carried out today. When the second reading is completed, the third reading should be carried out tomorrow, 20 December and the draft law adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U158	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. We have now examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U159	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U160	Hello again! We have before us at second reading the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act. It is also the case that no amendments were received from the political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments, but the Commission decided to propose amendments for its part. The first amendment concerns the finding of candidates for the position of Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board. While the current law is relatively restrictive in this respect, dealing in particular with people working in the respective areas of the public sector, in discussions with the Minister for the Interior, we reached the Commission's understanding that it would be useful to expand the number of candidates. This extension concerns those people who have long experience in managing a large organisation outside the security sector. We had a discussion on how to understand the terms 'long-term experience' and 'great organization'. We maintained this proposed wording because specific candidates pass through the minister's respective committee on the way to becoming Director-General, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the coordination of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs must be obtained. It is certainly not a weight language whether one or the other's experience comes from 20 larger organisations. So let's propose a change to the big hall. The question has been raised whether this means that there is a particular person on the horizon whose name could be written into the bill instead of its long construction. With today's knowledge, there is no such person. It is certainly not a panic or a cry for help that it is not possible to find people in the security of the state sector at the moment. I'm sure it is. But the more dignified candidates, the better. Therefore, we also have an amendment concerning the amendment to § 43 (3) of the Police and Border Guard Act. Now from this amendment concerning the addition of § 100 (1) and § 100 (11). This proposal, which is to be specified, provides a precise description of the time taken for a particular official to calculate the amount of the police officer's pension. As has been said, this proposal should be regarded as a technical and definitive amendment. At the last meeting, the Commission decided to clarify § 100 (11) with a further half sentence that this consideration applies to all retired persons, except those for whom the pension is calculated (a few years still possible) on the basis of those years when the basis for retirement was derived either from the Border Guard Service or from the Police Services Act. This is the content of paragraph 2 of this section. The main point or message of the draft is related to § 106. After the adoption of this bill as a law, all police pensions will change by indexing on 1 April according to how the Government of the Republic confirms the pension index each year. It is recalled that the system so far was such that for all police pensioners who had retired before 2010, the pension would be indexed, but for pensioners who had reached retirement in 2010-2012, the change in pension would have depended on changes in grade salaries and grades. You certainly know that there has been a debate about this draft, whether the draft treats the police retired persons in a reasonable and equal manner in the years 2010-2012. And isn't this some kind of violation of legitimate expectations? Is it at all the right time to make such a change, i.e. that all pensions will change in the future only through indexation? As you can see, there are no amendments to further regulate this problem. However, in the second reading explanatory memorandum, the Commission tried to rewrite all the problems that these different groups look like in terms of the size of the pension. This is the best possible explanation we have for you. Any different treatment of people retired from the police in 2010-2012 would highlight inequalities in some other respects compared to other groups. When it comes to whether this change is the right time, we can say that it is definitely high time. It would probably have been a good time to discuss it at the end of last year. Why not? This was a situation where the pension index had not increased for two years and the beneficiaries of the old-age pension received the same pension as they had previously been calculated for two years. At the same time, there was no question about the organisation of the wage system, but now new expectations have been set on fire. The Commission concluded that the end of this year is the last reasonable time to make this regulation so that all police pensioners will be able to receive a pension in the future and its increase through indexation. This may cause problems in the short term, but if we look to a far-reaching future, this change will certainly ensure that all police pensioners receive an increase in pension, as for all Estonian pensioners, whether or not the state can contribute further to wage policy. So let's hope our explanatory statement is exhaustive. This is a problem we have recognised. We also had a meeting with Ele Nuka, Chairman of the Board of the Police Employees' Trade Union, with whom we discussed this issue on 13 December. As I said, this reasoning is in front of you in the second reading explanatory memorandum. The Commission decided to send the draft, together with the above amendments, to the second reading of the large Chamber and to conclude the second reading. And when the second reading is completed, this bill should be adopted as a law tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U161	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your thorough presentation. But I am asking about the first amendment on the draft, which the Commission itself has tabled. Did you also think in the Commission that this amendment, which deals with the requirements for the head of the Police and Border Guard Board, may once again be a signal to senior and middle-level police officers, perhaps even to those who are still studying at Paikuse School, that the state does not really look for or want to see this highest police leader?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U163	Thanks! I tried to explain this by saying that it is certainly not a cry for help and increasing the number of candidates should in itself be a good thing. I don't know what side these candidates will be found on. In my opinion, this is the most complex public sector job in the Republic of Estonia at all. Anyone who dares to write a statement is, in itself, very hard men or women. And most of the police and border guards' career ends without becoming director of the Police and Border Guard Board. Five years from now, this position may hit one of them, if some kind of miracle happens, in ten years or in some other period. But there are very few of them on this subject anyway. I dare say that everyone who knows the job or those involved in the security field should fill in the application when this competition is announced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U164	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U165	Thank you. We know that there are no good solutions to this current indexation. But I'm still asking why this change wasn't made earlier by the Ministry, a few years ago. Why do we urgently have to do this in the Commission, perhaps to correct the mistakes of the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U166	Thanks! As I said, as a hindsight, the most ideal time would have been at the end of last year when everyone was in a uniform situation. I can't answer why the Ministry didn't take this issue into the work programme last year. I know about the end of this year that this bill was to be dealt with in the context of the Courts Act, which would have meant a little more time for us. Once again, the situation is before us now as it is, and in fact it is time to change this regulation. From now on, we will only increase inequalities if this change of regulation remains later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U167	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, As we know, this bill changes the pension accounting system of 195 policemen. During the first reading, you promised that, between the first and second reading, you would meet the people affected by this amendment. Did you meet them, and if so, what was the outcome of this meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U169	Thanks! As I mentioned, of course, we did not have the 195 police officers at the meeting, while the union leader Ele Nuka, with whom we discussed these matters, was present. In fact, we also said that there are no good solutions here. Ele Nuka told us that it would be very difficult for him himself to explain to his colleagues what the reasoning and logic in this form was to bring the draft before you. As I said, we contributed to this in the best possible way and made the explanatory statement with the arguments as comprehensive as we could. Certainly no one can say that this is a 'fictionary' explanatory statement, which is simply made in order to have an explanatory statement at the reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U170	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U171	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good waitress! I will continue on the issue of Väino Linde. The moral state of the Estonian police is currently very complicated and no good news comes from anywhere. So now we know that there is also a need to eliminate the police in Lihula and in the area, etc. In short, the situation is bad. Secondly, any law, and especially any amendment to the law, has specific content, but it also sends a message. In this case, the message is this: Honourable policemen, the top of your career will not be the Director General of the Police Department, because there are no such people among you, and so we will extend it to the account of SEB and Swedbank bankers, Karjabadirs, etc. That's the message that's coming out of here. Please tell me I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U172	Thanks! I really want to hope that you're wrong about any of the Karelians, probably never gonna be the head of the Police and Border Guard Board. A person with education at the Estonian Academy of Agricultural Sciences has now become a border guard general. So making a career from the beginning, passing through all levels of service, in fact, any educated person will be able to commit to national defence and internal security issues. In answer to that, I don't want to take responsibility away from myself in any way. In our committee, there are two former police officers. There's one standing up back there. His name is Kalle Laanet, you all know him. The other one's sitting in front of us. His name's Andres Anvelt. They both support this option so that the basis for the application can be wider and the truth will still be revealed after real names.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U173	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, We are going to pass laws in this Chamber, and if the text of these laws is not unambiguously understood, the answer will be sought in the explanatory memorandum, in the last distress even in the verbatim of the Riigikogu. In order to help the future interpretations of the law, I would like to ask. If we use the unfettered legal terms 'big organisation' and 'long-term management experience' in the explanatory memorandum, I would ask the Commission's rapporteur to understand the size and length of the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U175	Thanks! If the current wording is taken, it has been tried to define it on the side of the public sector over the years, whether it is three or five years in a job. Let me give you an example. If we take the office of Minister of the Interior, I don't know if the average length of office has increased, but recently it was eight months, then both of us and Kalle Laanet, who have been doing this job there for two years, would be long-term employees in the context of the Ministry of the Interior. In some other occupations, it is certainly not something to brag about, and there would be that rate for perhaps five years. But, as I said, I don't think anyone expects the size of the organization to be the weight language in the election of the Director-General, you see two equal persons of God, but one had 20 more employees on 1 January 2012 or 2013 or had been four months less in office than the other. The personal characteristics of the people who apply in Estonia are certainly known. It is simply a call for people who are not yet in the system to look at their career opportunities more broadly. But I don't know if any of them will ever be CEO. I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U176	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Based on this experience, which we have gained by monitoring the coalition's activities over the years, I have no doubt that Amendment No 1 has been made to implement the principle that competition cannot be announced until the winner is known. I'm sure we already know the winner, but he just didn't fit into the current section of the law. That is why this change is urgently needed. My question is, is my reasoning wrong? Of course, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U178	Thanks! As far as I know, this person doesn't exist, or we could really write the name in here, and that's why I assume your reasoning is wrong. With regard to the story of this area in this particular draft law on police and border guards, the Ministry of the Interior was not nervous about whether or not this issue could now be quickly regulated. It's urgent anyway, because this competition is about to come. But the clarity of pension policy is certainly important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U179	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I hope that the person who will be the future police chief is still there today, that we just don't know his name yet. But I want to ask you about what's not in the bill. After all, the chief of police has undoubtedly a great deal of knowledge, a high level of information about Estonia's internal security. Did the Commission also discuss what could or should become of outgoing police leaders? The internship has shown that one went to run the port, the other went to the security company. These people should not go to the country quite to disappear or to the other side of the front line.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U181	Thanks! In the future, or on 1 March, you can talk about a specific Head of the Police and Border Guard Board. I've spoken to the current Minister of the Interior. His understanding is that those people who have done this work with dignity for the benefit of the Estonian state for decades must certainly help in finding new opportunities and still keep the front line on this side. I've heard on the radio from public appearances that Raivo Küüt has called training for future police officers as one of the possible spheres of interest to pass on his experience. But that's all for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U182	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U183	The Väino said it maybe with a little irony, but you know, it's not a joke! I mean this unhindered rotation between the private sector and the police. This means that a former businessman controls the economic police as chief police officer, then goes to another private business, to private business in another country, to a public limited company, etc. In short, I'd say the police service is one of those things that will keep this thing from happening. I want to ask whether this bill really allows for a plumber, orchestra conductor, or any respected person to walk through the door after the competition and be the director of the police department. Is that really possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U184	Thanks! This is really not possible for the simple reason that I assume these people will not go beyond writing their application. Their path to this competition will be brief and will end with a protocol decision not to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U185	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The Police and Border Guard Board also serves women alongside very good and manly men. What are women's chances of ever rising to the top of the career ladder in this profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U187	Thanks! In the near future, i.e. March 2013, I am not sure that, at least within the current system, there would be a woman writing this statement. Could they come from somewhere on the other side of what we are worried about, i.e. on the subject of orchestra, Karja Brigade, etc., in the case of Mr Gräzini? In fact, I assume that women with experience in managing large organisations are still working in Estonia. I wouldn't dare take the poison, but I'm afraid it's gonna be one of the men's competitions. This is probably not because of men, but because of women themselves, they are not largely prepared to take the lead in this organization. And their fears may have every reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U188	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U189	I have another problem. Thank you to the Commission for having had the will to find a way to hear the concerns of a couple hundred or a little less police pensioners. But there's no solution. What prevented you from finding that solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U190	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U191	Thanks! I tried to explain it. A good solution was to prevent any change in this group of about 200 people from leading the system out of balance in another direction. That was definitely one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U192	Good waitress! Maybe a little background. I imagine that so many questions and doubts and doubts are due to the fact that the head of the institution that resigned because of a particular problem will continue for some period of x. I don't know anything like that before. This same three-month deadline is certainly understandable, the other way around it raises many questions. Does it contribute to the organization's inner life or not? It still doesn't seem to help very much. But that's it. My question relates, rather, to the desire to give the opportunity to stand as a candidate for structural leadership to those who have not been formalists before. How do you imagine how a person who has never worn a uniform can be affected by the fact that he will have, first, rank, and second, that he will become a uniform carrier? There's a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U193	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U194	Thanks! It will certainly be difficult for this person, and at least at the beginning, it will probably also be a great prejudice from all those workers who have been involved in this organization since the end of their childhood. I hope that the people who intend to apply from the private sector will take this aspect into account. But in the end, everything depends on a very specific person, whether or not he gets the job or not, with or without the bangs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U195	I don't see any problem with balance here. I was also familiar with the government's views, which were like no. I must say that they did not exactly shine with special competence. In fact, it is certainly unacceptable for us to take something away from someone, but it is not forbidden to give more, and it can be done in one way, another way or another. If you wanted to, you could solve this problem. There's money, and it doesn't cost much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U196	I'm sure it will! The question is, how much money is there for someone? If the pensions of these 200 police officers were to rise through wage increases, it would take 6 to 7% of the salary in 2013. At the same time, this would not lead to any change for those policemen who have retired before 2010. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, it is certainly a matter of how much and whether pensions could rise at all if we look at the planned changes in the scales and changes in the grades. If all of this were as simple as that, surely such a good solution would have been reflected in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U197	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U198	Honourable waitress! Of course, this amendment has been quite heatedly discussed in society. Basically, the draft has been approached in this particular aspect of pensions, but it has certainly been discussed how to fill the position of Director-General. To be honest, there have also been reports in many districts that the Police and Border Guard Board is, in its current form, too large. Has there been such an idea in the Commission's discussions that perhaps it would be worth thinking about separating this vast office again? This is Estonia's biggest occupation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U199	Thanks! I certainly do not consider it very reasonable to create a new mess, although some people really do have such expectations, above all on the border guard side. I believe that every effort must be made to ensure that this agency, in cooperation with the three institutions from which it was formed, is still working as a single organisation for the benefit of the Estonian taxpayer. And so our borders are protected, our public order is under control and everything else is part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U200	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, When I read § 43 (3), the first thought was immediately whether the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board could be appointed, let's say, the Gymnasium Director, who has a long experience in managing a large organization. But now, seriously, doesn't a specific education have a role to play in this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U202	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U203	Thanks! We are dealing with a very large civil organisation, for which it is certainly the most important, be it the private sector or the public sector, to manage it. And in all areas, their leaders will remain. The border guard service is managed by the Deputy Director-General in the Border Guard area; in the case of police, the law enforcement and criminal police are separate, and in order to ensure that all matters relating to equipment, money, etc. are still a separate person. The greatest need is for the person who can, whatever he is, I'm guessing he's not the former Gymnasium Director to get this big organization going so it works as one machine should work, no matter how complicated it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U204	Honourable waitress! As far as the indexation of pensions is concerned, we both know that the 195 police pensioners whose grade wages were reduced at a bad time now retired and, as a result of this indexation, they will essentially lose even more. And we know there's going to be lawsuit. Has anyone taken the trouble to calculate how expensive all this could cost the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U205	It has not been calculated. As regards the reduction of pensions due to the reduction in grade salaries on 1 July 2009, this affects equally all current pensioners, both those who retired before 2010 and those who went on old-age leave in 2010-2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U206	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U207	The rapporteur from the Commission. First of all, thank you for your answer to the previous question. The question was two-part and, unfortunately, I only received one part of the answer, but thank you for that too. Unfortunately, I'm forced to ask for that first part again. Please state, however, any limitations on the size of this organisation, which figures could be the limit to some extent to comply with this law? This was obviously discussed in the Commission. But if you didn't discuss it, surely you can name some kind of quota?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U208	Thanks! We did not play such a number game, since when will Estonia become big. If you look at our current public sector organisations, for example, it is a few hundred or half thousand employees. When we talk about a large organisation, I think that is my personal opinion, it has nothing to do with the Commission's debate, so that its workforce can start with a thousand people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U209	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U210	Dear waitress, In fact, in my opinion, this bill goes out to police officers in the Riigikogu just like two very bad messages. The first message concerns careers: uniform-bearing policemen who have special preparation, education, will now compete with anyone to get to the top of the job, such as hornblowers, actors, or businessmen. The other bad news is that they cannot be sure of the state's promises. After all, people have expectations that the promised pension will remain that way. Is this opinion wrong? What's your position, Marko?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U211	Thanks! There is certainly no need to worry too much about extending the possibility of applying. We'll see who's running for it, what these people are and whether there's something coming or not. That's one side of it. On the other hand, if a police officer is in a marsalian bag, there is no way I would take this change in such a way that it is now pointless to work in this organization for his future career. There are simply very few people in the future who will become the head of law enforcement or criminal police in this organisation, for example, or the head of the defence police in the Defence Police Department. Now, as regards your question of whether a policeman can look ahead with certainty, I think that this change will bring to an end all the saga that deals with the pension principles of the police officers who have already earned their pension and are now in service. There is a uniform approach for everyone, whether you are halfway through your career or whether you have already retired. It doesn't matter whether you've retired before or after 2010. This may be such an ugly place in the short term just because we don't know what the state's chances of raising wages in the coming years are. Therefore, I do not know whether, for example, 4% or 5% more every year is right instead of some kind of 10% leap every five or six years. However, this indexation can be a very sensible and stable solution, as indexation has been more stable than wage increases so far. One thing that we still have in the country remains unresolved and which is perhaps one of the reasons why the draft has been late: since the beginning of 2000, there has always been hope that an over-exercise solution will be found immediately and immediately as regards special pensions as such. Will they remain, if they remain, for those who have developed half their careers or for those who have taken up their ministry? Such a political decision must be taken in the coming years. Indeed, young people who are going to study at the Internal Security Academy in the future may already know that they will not have a special pension. It's known to them in advance. However, at the moment, all changes should have been made to ensure that all pensioners have a uniform approach regardless of the years in which they retire or have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U212	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U213	The Police and Border Guard Board is, as we know, Estonia's largest organisations, if not the largest. Why the pessimism that we will not find the leader of this organization among so many people? Is the situation really that grim?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U214	I personally have no such pessimism, but I would not make life difficult and wait for the way in which the Estonian top executives are prepared to contribute to the state sector. I dare not predict whether or not this person will be the current hangover, but I think that the competition will be first and foremost attended by people who have been in contact with the field before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U215	No further questions. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Andres Anvelt! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, which is today at second reading, is, in my opinion, a good draft in itself. I don't really want to object to that. As a former police officer, I do not share these fears regarding the extension of the criteria for selecting the Director-General of the Police. I know that the police have always been in charge of different levels, even of middle management, looking for people from outside. After all, the police are dealing with society's problems more widely and the police system alone; its training system is not able to prepare specialists in a wide range of ampluas. That's why I don't share that fear. On the contrary, since it is one of Estonia's largest employers and very different institutions, it is not bad if competition is possible on a broad basis. In Estonia, where there is a drought of good leaders in both the private sector and the public sector, it will certainly provide an opportunity to find a worthy person in a position such as that of the Police Director General. That's good in itself. It is also not bad that the problems of police pensions over the years become clearer. There have been many different laws under which someone retires over the years. It is not bad that a common criterion is now reached. But this is where the new problem begins. In fact, with this bill, we are deceiving the legal expectations of nearly a few hundred current police pensioners. Dear colleague, Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, pointed out the risk that perhaps we are creating new inequalities. The fact is that those people who had not yet retired in 2010 and who fell after 2010 retired with the knowledge that their police pension would increase when the salary was raised at the grade from which they retired. They did not retire with the knowledge that their police pension would be indexed as before 2010. It must also be stressed that just before 2010, wages fell by 8% and pensions for these people also fell. 2012 saw an increase, the retirement age index increased by more than 4%. All those people who had retired before 2010 hoped that their pension would increase according to this old-age pension index and that this would probably happen in 2013 as early as spring. After all, this summer we heard from the coalition in power that one of the priorities is to raise the salaries of the internal security system. These people lived in that expectation until Christmas, when our coalition representatives in Parliament came up with a bill that gave these people a proper Christmas surprise and shattered their hopes. These people lost 4% of the pension increase that took place in the spring of this year. As we talked about in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in order for these people's pensions to increase by 4.1%, some 24000 euros are needed, which seems to be not a significant amount in the case of the Estonian state budget. At the same time, it would be a very important step towards increasing the credibility of the country. It's not right to think it's only a couple hundred pensioners. In fact, it would be a signal to the entire organization, a signal that what you're hoping for today cannot fall to dust. On the contrary, the police do not strengthen loyalty, increase patriotism, want to serve the country and put themselves in dangerous situations. Certainly in their former social environment, it also gives up the current police, who still have emotions and have time to retire, but they see what a leap is going on. If the country is doing worse, they agree to a drop in the grade at the time of receiving the pension, but if the country is doing better, they will be lifted off the train. This is very sad, and it certainly does not honor the Estonian state and does not benefit its internal security in the long term. Just like the fact that such important drafts will come at the last minute of the hall. It would be good if it wasn't. But as they say, it would be a bad boy and time cannot be reversed. Our group certainly does not support this draft law. I would like to emphasise once again that we would support this if a solution had been found on the pension issue of nearly 200 people. On other points, we do not see a problem because the draft brings order to the house and broadens the criteria for selecting the director-general of the police. Our group proposes that the reading of the draft be suspended, so that these few hundred former police officers can be treated fairly. We need to come up with mechanisms to normalise the situation. At the same time, I will use this eloquence and wish everyone a peaceful Christmas season in advance! I hope that the Christmas peace will also come to those police pensioners who will definitely follow the course of today's affairs. I also hope that they will not tell their offspring that the country has deceived them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U217	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair at Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U218	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we would like to ask what is going on in the ministry under the command of Minister Ken-Marti Vaher. This work, this legislative amendment proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the initiative of two coalition groups and which will be adopted in this Chamber by the Riigikogu with the votes of the power union on the last working day of this year, should have been done by 2010. After all, the coalition was almost the same in its composition, and the current Riigikogu is about to complete its work for two years. It's not done, and that means it's broken. There was no political agreement in the coalition because of the conflicts, and now we are in a situation where there are no good choices and decisions have to be taken over. The Committee on Legal Affairs is rushing out the fire, while the Minister of the Interior is going to the committee to supervise, advise and throw political words. This is precisely his unfinished work, which is now being rushed through the Commission to save the Minister from unpleasant issues. For the sake of clarity, I will repeat again, which we have already heard several times today. The pension for police officers and border guards who retired before 2010 is linked to the salary and increases in line with the annual indexation of the old-age pension to the pension index. These people have a total of 1325 and have had their pension rise for the first time in spring this year when old-age pensions were indexed over several years. The pension rose by just over 4%. However, the problem is with people who retired after 2010 under a new law. Their pension was fixed at the end of 2009. I remember there was a promise in this Chamber that these pensions, too, would have to be indexed quickly, but that has not been done. The pensions of these people are linked to the new Police and Border Guard Act, according to which the pension was to start to rise in line with the rise in the grade of the job. If the official's salary increases, the pension will rise immediately. The people affected by this problem are 195. They did not have this spring pension increase, on the contrary, because of the recession and wage cuts, their pension fell by 8%. However, they too have indeed had a legal expectation that their pension, together with the increase in wages, would still increase. I would like to point out that this expectation has been a legal expectation! What are the coalition ambassadors doing with this legislative amendment in this Chamber? They do it so that the expected pension rise doesn't just come. As the salaries corresponding to the grades of the Police and Border Guard Board will rise next year, the pensions of the latter group should also rise. However, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and Reform Party came up with the draft before you, according to which these people's pensions are linked to the old-age pension index. Yes, it can be called harmonisation and the creation of an equal pension scheme, but let us not forget that, unlike previous pensioners whose pension was already indexed and whose pension has also risen, their last pension fell instead. This is not equal treatment, not to mention taking into account legal expectations. In fact, some pensioners are being taken away from the expected additional money. According to this bill, we can't index these pensions afterwards, which I think should be done right now. I'm afraid you can't. And even if we did, the inequality would still remain even in the 195 we are talking about, because it would not concern 75 people who retired this year. Their pension would then not be indexed; they would then also be left behind by those previous 1325 pensioners. So, as we can see, all the options are poor, and that is because the Minister and the Ministry and, more generally, the entire power union have failed to do this work. It is a good thing that committee chairman Marko Pomerants brought several parties to the debate on this issue, including the Police Employees' Trade Union, who previously sent a letter on the unequal treatment of police pensioners. In fact, however, we did not see any calculations, the parties remained essentially debating, and the discussion of the question remained raw. Maybe, like they said, we don't know what's gonna happen, and we're afraid there's gonna be a lot of cases. Finally, one comment by Delfi: 'Pension was sent at a lower grade. Now a move would be made by two: taking away from them even the possibility that a retired pensioner who was already retired from a reduced pensionable age would not be able to receive a higher pension. Remember: these are the people who carried the worst weight when recreating the police (and border guards) and at least in the 1990s were mostly in the field. [... ] The state and the police administration thanked them with their wages in mockery, as the bonuses and bonuses moved (and are still moving) according to personal stall intervention. [... ] Give one good reason why those who have helped to rebuild this country should want to remain in place in such a country? " This is the passage. The central group proposes that the debate on this draft be suspended. Let the Ministry consider precisely how to ensure equal treatment for people who have retired before and after 2010. Today's situation shows that the Minister can't do his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U219	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll finish the negotiations. We are on the revision of the amendments, two amendments have been tabled: the first amendment, the second amendment. The amendments have been examined. The Board of the Riigikogu has received the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill 326 and the Estonian Central Party Group has proposed the same: the second reading of Bill 326 is interrupted. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act 326. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 326 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U220	Ladies and gentlemen, We come to today's last item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic took place on 7 December. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 10 December. No amendments to the draft were received. The draft amends the provisions of § 72 of the Health Insurance Act, which regulate the amount of the visit fee and the amount of the bed-day fee. In particular, new limits on visit fees and bed pay will be introduced. The new home visit fee and special outpatient medical care fee are limited to EUR 5 and the current threshold is EUR 3.2. The daily bed allowance will be capped at EUR 2,5 and the current limit will be EUR 1.6. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu received their proposals regarding the visit fee and the topic of the bedtime allowance of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and Tallinn Children's Hospital. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the proposals of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and Tallinn Children's Hospital on 11 December. Representatives of the Estonian Family Doctors' Association Diana Ingerainen and Anneli Talvik participated in the meeting and Mall-Anne Riigijärv, Chairman of the Management Board of the Tallinn Children's Hospital, Estonia. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors proposed to set the family doctor's visit fee of 3 to 5 euros and to retain the possibility of free access to the nurse's appointment. The reason was that family doctors needed to hire more nurses in the family doctor's office who could solve patients' first-level problems, leaving more time for family doctors to deal with more serious cases. The impact on the patient of implementing these different proposals would have reached a total of €18.3 to 20 million per year. The Commission did not consider it possible to impose a family doctor's visit fee, as primary care should be provided to all people who have health insurance regardless of their financial situation and livelihood. The Social Affairs Committee also discussed the visit to Tallinn Children's Hospital, which seeks to compensate the state for the visit fee and the bed-day fee, as according to the Health Insurance Act, the visit fee may not be charged to children under two years of age and to all minors. The visit indicates that the Foundation Tallinn Children's Hospital is the only independent health care facility where only children are treated, and therefore they have not received a bed payment. The representative of Tallinn Children's Hospital also indicated that the agreement reached between the Medical Association and the Hospital Association has put them in an unequal position. The Commission noted that this was rather a matter for the Health Insurance Fund and that the representatives of the Social Affairs Committee could therefore raise the issue in the Health Insurance Fund Council. At its meeting on 11 December, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed 325 further proceedings and decided to refer the draft to second reading today, 19 December, the decision was consensual and to propose that the second reading be terminated. There were 5 delegates in favour, 3 against, and no abstentions. The Commission decided that if the second reading was completed today, the draft could be sent to the third reading on Thursday 20 December and propose the adoption of the draft as a law. There were 5 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U222	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U223	Good waitress! When we look at trends, the ambulance and other health care workers, including residents, who are paid from the state budget, were taken from the pockets of the unemployed. Unemployment benefit did not increase as much as planned. To raise the salaries of nurses, doctors and carers, money is partly taken from the patients' pockets. Former Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur has said that he must increase the visit fee and the bed pay, as this would partly cover the increase in the salary of these employees. Why isn't this taken from the Health Insurance Fund's undistributed coming? After all, there was almost EUR 40 million that could have been used, only EUR 9 million was used. You're on the Health Insurance Board yourself. Why have such contradictions arisen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U224	A specific proposal to increase visit fees and bed-day fees has come to Parliament for discussion through the Hospitals Association through the Government. The truth is that these limits have not been raised in ten years, although the law provides an opportunity to regulate these fees according to the increase in the cost of living. In my opinion, the politically justified decision that has not been taken is behind it. However, the current situation is that the Hospital Association has asked for additional money, since from 1 March next year until the end of the following year, hospitals will take charge of raising the salaries of carers, nurses and doctors, and they will be short of these. The visit fee will not increase more than it would have actually increased in those ten years. I rather welcome the fact that for ten years we have been able to keep patients' own shares at a lower cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U225	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U226	The rapporteur from the Commission. For me, your position was incomprehensible. You spoke about the discussion of a letter from the children's hospital in the Commission and stated that indeed, the bill does not allow minors to charge bedtime fees. It makes perfect sense, too. There will be no compensation mechanism for the children's hospital, which treats minors, and you say it is not a problem for the Riigikogu, but a problem for the sickness fund. However, if one law clearly puts one health institution in a different situation than the other, should not the Riigikogu's responsibilities include dealing with its consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U227	Good questioner! According to the law, the prohibition of a visit fee concerns children up to two years of age. The real problem with Tallinn Children's Hospital is that one of the founders and owners of this company, the city of Tallinn, has decided that all minors must not be charged a visit fee. This law allows and the city compensates for this in a certain part. Rather, the question of this is also acknowledged by the head of the children's hospital, that there is a great deal to be done by the city as owner to solve the problem. Tallinn will be able to allocate more money from the city budget for next year to compensate for the unpaid fee, which is not prohibited by law. The city itself has decided not to charge a visit fee as owner at the age of 18. In this principle, much of this inequality is hidden, and the law does not prohibit the city as owner from doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U228	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U229	The rapporteur from the Commission. To be honest, I do not understand the social policy of the Estonian state. If we have a reserve at the health insurance fund and we need extra money for hospitals, why is this money taken from the patient's wallet? According to the latest Eurostat surveys, 23.1% of the Estonian population are at risk of poverty. I ask you, do you put more pressure on them in a situation where the number of poor people has increased in a year? Is the purpose of social policy that these people should leave Estonia, or is there another purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U230	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U231	Good questioner! You have quite rightly understood that you have not understood that social policy is not about people moving away from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U232	In my opinion, for many years, there has been a debate on how to increase the visit fee and the bed-day fee. It seems to me that a good reason has now been found and put this requirement in the mouth of the Doctors' Association. I would ask you, however, to briefly explain what the result of the sickness fund is undistributed. What's it for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U233	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U234	Good questioner! With this bill, we do not deal in any way with the activities of the Health Insurance Fund, the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund. As regards the increase in visit fees and bed-day fees, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed this for the first time in the last year. And this bill is in front of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U235	Good waitress! It was strange for me to hear your answer to the question of Mailis Reps. We all understand that the children's hospital is the only hospital that doesn't have an adult reception, and that doesn't give us any chance to make any extra money. I had the impression in the Commission that you understood this problem very well. Has anything changed since then? I do not remember that it would have been very clear in the Commission that this is not a problem and that we are not dealing with it. Maybe there have been some developments that I don't know about since I wasn't just in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U236	Good questioner! No, you don't get me wrong. I am saying that the Health Insurance Fund can regulate the part on which the law imposes restrictions in its price list. This concerns the visit fee for children under two years of age and the bed-day fee for minors. When we talk about the visit fee in general, the owner has made different decisions. Of course, it would be good if this children's hospital solution were combined and negotiated with the city and in accordance with Tallinn's budget. With regard to the law, the restrictions imposed by law at national level, the Health Insurance Fund should reconsider its approach to the children's hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U237	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U238	Thank you. I am extremely grateful to the previous questioner because I wanted to get there with my question. I understand that in the case of the visit fee, Tallinn has indeed adopted a different approach to the law, but not to the bed-day fee. Since this law also applies very clearly to compensating for the increase in costs by means of a bed payment, which is specifically prohibited by law in the case of minors, and the children's hospital does not accept adults, as a general rule, his patients are all minors, I have the following question. If the legislator has imposed a clear restriction, putting one authority in a worse position than others, is it up to the legislator to deal with this situation? Or could he put responsibility on someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U239	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U240	This is, of course, the responsibility of the legislator. I can't tell by heart, when that exception was introduced to children's hospitals, I don't know who was in the coalition. Maybe we all agreed. But there is certainly a reason for this, and I do not think we should change that principle. Rather, we should think about how not to put children's hospitals in a more difficult position. In my opinion, this restriction in the law is justified by the right fact that children up to two years of age are not allowed to charge a visit fee and that the bed-day fee is not charged to all minors. Rather, we try to compensate somehow for the difference that children's hospitals have with other medical institutions. But it's more of a health fund issue, not so much a legislator issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U241	It was a very profane answer that, in connection with this draft, the possible receipt of money was not concerned with the non-disclosure of the sickness fund. I would remind you that in the advance agreement for the completion of the medical strike, it was actually written that the money to pay would come from the Health Insurance Fund. Now I'm asking you, why aren't you fulfilling this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U242	In the lion's part, in the case of agreements between doctors and the Hospitals' Association, the money really comes from the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund were refinanced accordingly. As you know, the medical strike took place in a situation where the government had already submitted a draft budget to the Riigikogu for the following year, as was the forecast for next year's budget for the Health Insurance Fund. In this situation, it is difficult to change the use of retained earnings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U243	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U244	Honourable waitress! You said that the Hospital Association proposed to the government, and it came to the Riigikogu as a draft government. The Hospital Association is known to consist of service providers, regional hospitals and general hospitals. Regional hospitals have a larger service area than county, Estonia can split in half: north and south. General hospitals are usually confined to the county. I find it relatively difficult for a general hospital to increase fees in the county, because they still operate in a community where everyone knows each other. My question is: are general hospitals able to comply with the agreements that were agreed between the medical and hospital associations? Will these conditions be met if we now increase the day-to-day and visit fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U245	This is an issue which the Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss at its meeting, as this agreement is not directly in the proceedings of the Committee on Social Affairs. However, the Hospital Association is a representative organisation of medical institutions and they have confirmed that this change will help them to comply with the agreement with the Medical Association. I hope it goes that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U246	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U247	Good waitress! Very often it has been said that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp, and I think there is one concrete example that proves that it is a rubber stamp. You said that this is what the government and hospitals want, and we have to meet them. I ask: does the Commission even have a point?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U248	Good questioner! The Commission certainly has an idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U249	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U250	Thank you, Madam President. I have one question, not for spite, and I know that this was not discussed by the Commission. But I'm just curious about your personal understanding, Honourable waitress. We never and never pay a visit fee from pregnant women because a pregnant woman has to bear a healthy child. What difference does it make between a child who has already been born and a pregnant woman?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U251	According to the law, it is forbidden to charge a visit fee for children up to two years of age. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U252	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U253	These fees have a certain restrictive character, therefore there is also an exception to the law that in certain cases there should not be such a restriction. These are children and pregnant women should not be restricted; they must definitely see a doctor. But since you have skilfully taken these two things separately, I will put my question this way: did the Government of the Republic submit this draft because these fees have not been changed over the years or because the Hospitals Association proposed such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U254	This should have been asked by the Minister at first reading, but as far as I know, the draft was born because the Hospitals Association made such a proposal to the Government of the Republic. And this proposal was based on the agreement reached in the negotiations with the Medical Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U255	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U256	Good waitress! My question is this: can you predict whether the fee that will be imposed will be longer, or will we have to change the law again soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U257	According to the law already in force, the Minister has the power to regulate this fee according to the way life is getting more expensive. This is a political decision, but I hope that we do not have to discuss raising the threshold in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. This policy is very clearly in place so that there should be no increase in own contribution. This was also the result of the Social Affairs Committee's consensual decision on the proposals of family doctors. At the same time, I say once again on this board that the Committee on Social Affairs is certainly open to solving the problems of family doctors. They have a number of problems that need to be resolved, but it would certainly be wrong to make a simple political decision to increase patients' ownership. This must not be done over and over again, as would have been the case at present, where the approval of an amendment would put an additional burden on patients in the order of EUR 20 million per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U258	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U259	I would like to congratulate the Commission here. Indeed, every adult person would also have another health care facility in addition to an ambulance, where he can go free of charge, it is a little too much. Surely, for some reason, the Hospital Association was forced to make this proposal. One reason was that this agreement needed to be fulfilled. The alternative would have been to make use of the reserves that are in the health insurance fund. Instead of the 40 million that the law allows us to use, we use 9. How much do hospitals expect to improve their financial situation by increasing this visit fee and the bed allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U260	Good questioner! The specific amount depends on the nature of each medical institution's decision regarding the visit fee and the bed-day fee, but the order of magnitude is approximately 4.5 million euros per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U261	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U262	Good waitress! I suppose you could answer me, too, that you should have asked the Minister. By the way, I asked the minister at the committee, but I didn't get a reply. Maybe you can't answer, too, maybe you don't have that information, but I'm still asking, because the minister really didn't answer me. In the original explanatory memorandum, it was written that the Hospitals Association submitted in November or was it in October? beg for these fees to be increased. In fact, we know that he also applied for this at the beginning of this year. Can you tell me how many times the Hospitals Association has proposed this in ten years or at least in the last three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U263	Good questioner! I really don't know the statistics for the last ten years, it can be looked at more closely by the new minister. I cannot comment on why this proposal was not accepted at the beginning of the year. I guess because coalition policy does not provide for an increase in patients' ownership unless there are very good reasons for doing so. As the questioner himself knows, we have certainly tried to reduce our participation in the pharmaceutical policy, we decided this together in this Chamber last year. It's already in place this year. That's the way to go. However, the outbreak of a strike, one of the most powerful in our society in the last 20 years, has led to a situation where we really need to find extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U264	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U265	As I understand it, 2013 is a year of price increases. All the prices you can raise, the coalition also raises. But I want to ask specifically about children's hospitals. In Tallinn Children's Hospital as well as in the Children's Clinic of the University of Tartu Hospital, employees' salaries are considerably lower than those of doctors, nurses and carers in other hospitals. When we look at the children's clinic in Tartu, it looks pretty lousy. In answer to my question, you promised to bring the matter up at the Health Insurance Board, but picking up the subject is one thing. Will you also promise us that you will stand up for this and make every effort to make sure that the situation of children's hospitals in Estonia improves, so that the salaries of pediatricians and nurses also rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U266	The salaries of pediatricians, nurses and nurses are rising because they are also covered by the agreement signed between the Medical Association and the Hospital Association. I can assure you that in this early winter, I have done all I can to make sure that these promises are fulfilled, and one example is here before you. I'm not happy to increase these visit fees either. But there's another side to the game. One side really concerns the activities of the Health Insurance Fund in order to alleviate the restrictions and differences prescribed by law, but the owners of both children's hospitals, Tartu City and Tallinn City also play a very important role. Tallinn has so far covered 50% of the loss of the visit fee of EUR 1.6, but the city has not planned an additional resource to cover these payments. This is confirmed by a letter from the Tallinn Children's Hospital Foundation. If we can solve the problem of children's hospitals in cooperation with these two municipalities, it would be great, and I will certainly contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U267	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U268	Good waitress! First a small comment, but at the end there is also a question. A few days ago, I was approached by a person from Saaremaa who had a question about the same lack of money. In September, he was informed that he had an eye surgery on December 18. On the evening of December 17, a person was brought to Tallinn to prepare for the operation, but that evening at 5.45 p.m., he was called to know that there was no need for surgery tomorrow morning, as the Health Insurance Fund announced that the money was out and that more operations could not be performed this year. Have you discussed what to do so there are no such situations? I understand the same thing when the money runs out, but you might want to let people know a little sooner than 10 hours before the planned surgery.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U269	This question goes a long way from this bill. All in all, the reason for this situation is the chronic lack of money for the medical system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U270	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Let's get to the negotiations. I'm asking for a chair for Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U271	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In order to address the accumulated health problems in the healthcare sector, health professionals organised 1. A strike that lasted until October to ensure decent working conditions for healthcare workers, in particular a lower workload, and to prevent the outflow of healthcare workers due to the lack of such conditions and, of course, to increase the minimum fees for doctors, nurses and carers. Today, the collective agreement was signed and can only be enjoyed. In order to limit the burden on health care professionals and increase the minimum hourly rates, due to the increase in income and the availability of undistributed profits, the Health Insurance Fund has sufficient resources. The law allows the sickness fund to take almost EUR 40 million out of its undistributed profits, and for some reason only EUR 9 million were mobilised. To cover the other costs of hospitals and to meet the demands of the doctors and nurses who have been on strike, the government has decided to take the missing extra money out of the patients' pockets, although there is currently no need to ask for more money from patients. Could have taken the missing 4.5 million out of the undistributed profits of the sickness fund in the same way. According to the government's plan, patients would start paying more for medical visits and hospital care. However, studies have confirmed that if there is more than 25% own contribution to medical care, the availability of treatment will start to decline. In Estonia, own participation reaches this limit already. The largest part of the money the patient pays is used to buy medicines, but this is certainly not a justification for increasing the day-to-day pay and the day-to-day pay. The World Health Organisation has also repeatedly made recommendations not to increase the participation of patients in Estonia, as this undermines the ability of people with lower incomes to receive medical care in particular. Thus, the Social Democrats do not support the government's plan to increase hospital revenues by raising the limit on visitation and bed pay and propose that the second reading of Bill 325 be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U272	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U273	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's news is, yes, that a collective agreement was signed and that the health care workers' strike is over. Before that, it was only stopped. Indeed, this was the largest and longest strike in Estonia's new history, but it lasted not three weeks, but almost three months. It is worth recalling that before the strike started, the medical team tried to start negotiations for a year and a half. They were once referred to the Hospital Association, once the Health Insurance Fund, once the Health Board, as negotiators, such as the Illuka Reception Centre for Asylum Seekers and the Astangu Disability Rehabilitation Centre. In no way did the Minister of Social Affairs want to assume this political responsibility to be a negotiator. Of course, because there wouldn't have been any good skin. After all, health professionals had quite specific requirements. Priority was given to the requirement to increase the funding of the health care system, to organise the health care system, to take steps to ensure that service providers are not just private legal entities competing with each other for the money of the health care fund. There were other requirements, and in order to stop the withdrawal of medical staff from Estonia, the requirement to adjust wages was only the last. Unfortunately, the law does not allow the strike to begin for reasons or reasons other than those related to the salary. That's what happened. And now, unfortunately, the former Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, was very good at running this strike. He challenged the Hospital Association, which negotiated all sorts of fine plans, and eventually turned out to be the person who made an agreement with the health professionals. In order to meet wage requirements, the money available at the health insurance fund would have been enough. There is both reserve capital, which, unfortunately, lies somewhere on the treasury shelf and decorates our budget as a cherry on the cake, and is also the result of the so-called lost or hidden reserve capital accumulated over the years. They didn't want to use it either. This led to a situation where the hospital community had a disagreement with the medical staff, medical staff had a quarrel with the patients, patients had an association with the hospitals, and the unemployed who lost the money they had been promised were also involved. So there's a lot of confusion. And the culprit is practically impossible to find. Although the culprit is known, it is the Government of the Republic. Because serious measures are needed to ensure that the health system is sustainable. As early as 2007 and 2008, international experts indicated that, in the way our healthcare system is structured, it is unsustainable and its funding does not ensure sustainability. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U274	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U275	Thank you. I'd love to ask you 13, but I won't. And now, instead of creating jobs, instead of providing people with a decent income, instead of reviving foreign trade instead of opening up new markets, they look at where it is easier to take. The Government of the Republic is acting just like a policeman who, instead of trying to catch criminals and solve crimes, goes to Viru Street and starts harassing the mole who sells paws there because they can't run out of the way, they can get their hands on them and they can twist a fine. We are punishing those who are the poorest and the poorest. I'm afraid that's the case. When a person is ill, his material situation is already suffering from it. We're punishing the poor and the sick! Those who are sick and rich, yes, they whistle it at 5 euros. But you know, five euros isn't that small. We who are sitting in this hall may not even know that there are people who turn on the washing machine only at night, because then there will be cheaper electricity. There are people who can't drive because they can't afford to buy gas. There are people who don't buy drugs because they don't have the money. There are people who are prescribed three medications, three prescriptions, because that's how a course of treatment is required, put together in accordance with medical regulations. The person goes to the pharmacy, looks at the prices and buys only one, the cheapest medicine. And it doesn't matter, the whole course of medicine is gonna blow up. Yeah, if a person needs medical attention, maybe he'll find it for 5 euros, but it could be really hard for him. If this is the way to take the poorest and the poorest, if the country feels that it cannot cope with its own, it will increase the electricity excise duty if it accepts the price increase in order to remove more excise duties if the burden of maintaining the state is put on the poorest, then it is not beautiful. You know, this little increase in the pay for the visit, I think people are gonna swallow it. Of course, we had good times, too, and in good times these fees could have been increased every year by the consumer price index, they would not have been noticed. Now, when the time is worse, we are totally banging and hoping that the Estonian people will swallow it. It's a blow down the belt. This bill will not cause any economic chaos, revolution or war, and the Estonian state will not fly up. But this is just another little hog in the collection of many small hogs, and this is something that the members of our Central Party Group do not want to tolerate. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I propose that the second reading of Bill 325 of Amendment to the Health Insurance Act be interrupted. I think there are honest people in this Chamber and that all honest people support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-19_U276	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, any further requests? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments have been received to this bill, and therefore we will immediately go to the proposals that have been received by the Board of the Riigikogu. In fact, both the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group have received a proposal to interrupt the second reading of Bill 325. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting at the same time on a proposal from two political groups: I am voting on a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act 325. Please take a stand and vote. 25 MPs voted in favour, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of bill 325 is over, today's agenda is exhausted and today's session is over. I wish everyone a nice evening and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.28 p.m.
