ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu and honourable Members of the Government. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 37 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 64 are missing. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus Prime Minister, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U2	The first question is from my colleague, Valeri Korb, to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Today, teachers have started to strike and medical, rescue, transport workers and others have joined them. My question has to do with this. How do you assess the government's last year of action in the light of a nationwide strike?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The aim of the government's activities has been to ensure that people's lives in Estonia start to improve again, in spite of difficult external circumstances, in other words that Estonia will be better off. Speaking of teachers' strike, I humanly understand the situation of teachers and the problem of teachers' pay. I think that these people are doing a very important and valuable job for society and that their workload is very high. Their pay-per-view concerns are understandable to the entire government. As reported several months ago, there is a search for a way to ease teachers' pay problems at the beginning of next year so that next year's wage increases can also reach teachers. It can be said that solidarity with teachers is certainly very high in society. However, it must be acknowledged that although the majority of the so-called'support strikers' are certainly very sincere in their opinions and positions and express their support for teachers, there are also those whose positions and demands are, frankly, quite incomprehensible. It is not clear to me, for example, whose interests it is in the interest of Narva Power Plant employees to reduce their production capacity. That's not the kind of thing you want to joke about. This is not in accordance with Estonian law. I believe that if some of the so-called'support strikers' discredit teachers' pay problems with such potential losses, this is certainly not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U5	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! The Prime Minister, responding to an inquiry last autumn, found that money to raise teachers' salaries would only be available if three of the four upper secondary schools currently in operation were closed. The organisation of the school network, however, means the pooling of teachers. I would like to ask what message you have for teachers who have been given a signal that pay can only be raised when colleagues are laid off.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U7	Thank you, good questioner! You did not refer quite correctly to the Prime Minister's words; you do not find such a sentence to question the Prime Minister's reply. Nor do I agree with this interpretation of the possibility of solving teachers' pay problems. First of all, when we talk about the government's planned changes that affect people's income, the first of them concerns all workers, not just teachers. I am talking about a reduction in the unemployment insurance rate. As agreed in the form of a government union, from 1 January 2013 all recipients, all workers directly affected by the reduction of the unemployment contribution rate to 3%. If there are two middle earners in the family, the increase in income during the year is just under 3000 kroons in old money. I'm sure it's a lot of money. When we are talking about teachers' salaries, it must be said that the Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo has confirmed that the minimum wage for teachers will rise to a 15% increase of three sources. Firstly, directing existing education funding primarily to pay teachers, not so much for real estate or construction, secondly, increasing efficiency of school organisation, thirdly, extra money from the state budget. These are the tools, opportunities and sources that we are talking about in terms of ensuring that teachers' salaries are raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U8	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! According to the government, the only way to raise teachers' pay is to clean up the school network and close many upper secondary schools. How much can teachers' salaries be raised by closing upper secondary schools, given that students need to be provided with additional school transport and student homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U10	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. Once again, I ask that I be denied claims that I have not said. Speaking of teachers' salaries and the money to go to education at all, Estonia is in a situation where we target the education sector at 7% of GDP. This is a great deal, more than 23 Member States of the European Union. We have so far directed most of the money going into education to improve the conditions for learning. When we are talking, for example, about general education costs, less than 50% of the resources to be devoted to general education are currently directly paid by teachers. This proportion obviously needs to change, and it is likely that in the future, the focus will have to be on teachers' salaries, which means that most of the resources devoted to education will have to reach teachers directly through pay. Once again, in order to raise the minimum wage of teachers to 15%, the Minister of Education, Jaak Aaviksoo, has offered three sources. First of all, directing existing education funding primarily to the salaries of teachers, as I said earlier, secondly, increased efficiency of school organisation, thirdly, additional money from the state budget. If you say these sources are not suitable, it would be fair to offer alternatives. If the reduction of these three sources and, in addition, of the unemployment contribution rate for all workers, is not an appropriate solution, what is the alternative? Offer alternatives and discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U11	Now four issues registered on the spot. Starts with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U12	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Pentus! I just got off the Liberty Square. There were still thousands of people together: teachers, cultural workers, medical workers, and many just supporters. This strike and demonstration is, of course, wider than just a teacher demonstration. Interestingly, if there are such undertakings, we will never see the representatives of the government there. The Prime Minister is again out of Estonia. During ACTA's demonstration he was skiing away from Estonia; today he is not in Estonia again. Really, people were very upset. One of the main issues was the Greek issue. We support Greece, but in Greece the teacher's salary is 1900 euros, in Estonia it is 640 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U13	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U14	How's that? Do we really not move until we know that something is going on the next day?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U15	Please, just put the question in one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U16	Thank you. The question was, how's that? First of all, Mrs Tuus-Song, on your question, there were, unfortunately, a number of false claims. It would take much more time than the two minutes I am currently scheduled to reject all these false claims. As far as meeting members of the government with educators is concerned, the Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo met with educational people and teachers in Järvamaa. He met with educators not only before the strike, and he does it not only during the strike and after the strike, but is part of his daily work. These reproaches are certainly not fair. As I have confirmed in my first reply, the question of teachers' pay is understandable and understandable. Therefore, quite a few months ago, the government confirmed that it was looking for ways to raise teachers' salaries from 1 January 2013. Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo has found opportunities and offered solutions for how the minimum wage of teachers could rise by 15%. The 15% increase in the minimum wage is not at all small. This, of course, requires effort, it requires additional resources, but it is what the government has dealt with, regardless of the strike. The government has repeatedly confirmed that it is perfectly understandable for the strike to take place itself and to reveal its mind through the strike, and that this behaviour of teachers is also understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U17	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U18	Thank you. Honourable performer! I don't think the pre-questioner's statements were wrong. Aaviksoo could have been here today on the Liberty Square, not in Järvamaa. For your information, Narva's energetics are on strike and protesting against the Employment Contracts Act. I don't think you've heard of it. After the strike, the teachers will negotiate with the government. What new proposals are you going out with? You have twice repeated the points said by Aaviksoo, which have been in the paper several times in a row in recent days, we have not heard anything new from you. Are there any new proposals on how to raise wages? They asked how to do it. Perhaps I should have recovered the corporate tax and the teachers' salary would have been clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U19	Thank you. First of all, from Narva Power Plants. Yes, I know the excuses the employees of the Narva Power Plant have threatened to reduce production capacity on Friday. It is certainly important to know that there is no way that the country will be powerless on Friday. But I think that people who, as providers of vital services, are throwing such threats into the air should also be aware of the possible consequences of these actions. Once again, I am absolutely convinced that there is no justification for the teachers' legitimate pay concern for squeezing or discrediting in this form. This is, inevitably, what we are dealing with at the moment. As regards the proposals to address teachers' pay problems, the Minister of Education has proposed them. Their debate lies ahead. I call for a very constructive debate, because I believe that the understanding of the pay and solidarity of teachers with it is common to everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U20	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U21	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I have had a very specific draft in my drawer since September on how to raise teachers' salaries. Since you are the Minister of the Environment, you may even be affected to a large extent. I have a proposal to raise the oil shale resource tax by 30 million euros. It would only concern the profits of four companies, but it would have been solved. I have tried to sell this idea to both the Commission and colleagues. I have not come up with this because, in general, all the opposition's drafts go into the trash bin. If I come up with this next week, will you support it and invite your colleagues from the government to seriously consider and think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U22	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The taxation of oil shale and of resources at all is certainly a matter worth looking at in a complex way, and solutions must be sought here not for one or two years, but for solutions that go far beyond the future. Whether a specific draft is the best or the only way to further develop this situation and look for solutions, it is very difficult for me to comment at the moment without seeing exactly what you have in that drawer. But this is certainly a subject to which the government is coming back in the near future, and I am thinking of developing the oil shale sector in a holistic and broader way. When it comes to the possibility of resolving the pay problems of another social group or another, the questioner referred to the possibility of raising taxes. Your partner in the opposition has seen the possibility, even by introducing new taxes, of raising extra money from the working people to the Treasury. Personally, I think that the idea proposed by the socialists of further burdening the working people with new taxes is what the working people probably least expect and need now. It's more like treating ear pain with guillotine. The government is still looking for ways to reduce the tax burden on workers. The same reduction in the unemployment contribution rate is one of these ways. Similarly, the growth of the debt burden in terms of the future is certainly not a reasonable way to go. If Estonia were currently at the European average level, we would have to pay 3% of GDP per year to serve interest alone. This amount, which we would have to pay for the loan interest alone, would be equal to quite a few months' pension money. This would certainly not be sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U23	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Enn Fronta.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U24	Thank you very much. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. The fight's pretty big, and the strikers are on the streets. At such times, the promises and words that are said must be closely monitored and weighed. I will focus on the idea of Minister of Education Aaviksoo to raise the minimum wage by 15%. You have quite rightly pointed out today on several occasions that this is his idea. Is this one of the alternatives proposed by the Minister, which has not been discussed in this narrower circle in the Cabinet, or is it still a substantive proposal of the Government and the Coalition, which Minister Aaviksoo said?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U25	Thank you, good questioner! In the government, however, it is the minister who is responsible for one particular area or another that is going to come up with such proposals. I think it's natural, it couldn't be any different. This proposal in the government is discussing and considering whether there are any other solutions to teachers' pay problems, but this is what the minister responsible for the matter is going to be before the government and the government union, and at one point before this very Parliament. The Minister of Education has maintained active contact with people who have reported a three-day strike. He, too, has publicly confirmed that such disclosure, such disclosure of a salary concern, is understandable. Whether there are any other improvements to this solution must be discussed. I didn't tell you in any way, ironically or in vain, that if you have any other suggestions on how to solve teachers' pay problems, let me know. These too, of course, must be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U26	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U27	Let's go to the next question. This is the question of my colleague, Urve Palo, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. When preparing the state budget for 2012, you stood for 150 million euros from the state budget, or 2.3 billion kroons to support the construction of the new oil shale plant in Eesti Energia. By the way, this is as much as is paid this year as teachers' salaries. In addition, you support oil shale energy every year through low oil shale prices and CO2 quotas. Here are the resources that would sustainably allow teachers to raise their wages and not only do this, but you will give this money to Estonia's largest and richest company, Eesti Energia. On what basis are you giving such gifts, and why is Eesti Energia supported from the state budget in a non-transparent way for consumers when renewable energy subsidies are left directly to the electricity consumer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, one minute to ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U30	Thank you. The brief answer to your question is that Eesti Energia is not supported by the state budget. I repeat: Eesti Energia is not supported by the state budget. The amount you are talking about is the investment of the Estonian state in an evolving company. Today it is no longer my proposal or the government's proposal, but, I am very sorry, your decision. Thank you for your support. It's a financial investment. We need to invest in energy in Estonia. It would be totally unacceptable to compare financial investments with teachers' salaries. These are completely different costs. I call for this to be correct and not to compare the unparalleled. The second issue was the country's potential future revenues from trading CO2 quotas. This debate on what will be the period of trade in CO2 quotas from 2013 to 2020 is still ahead of us. I recommend that we follow up on the discussions that are taking place in other parts of Europe as well. There are growing concerns that the emissions trading system is dead. I stress that this is not my position, but it is very serious that the emissions trading system is dead, that it does not fulfil the objective originally set for it: to motivate companies and businesses to contribute more widely and invest in technologies that do not generate a large amount of CO2 emissions. But that's what the future will show.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U31	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U32	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I certainly do not compare the incomparable, because the state budget is one and the money is one. If you justify all this by the decision of the legislator, I must say that I, as legislator, have not supported the subsidy of oil shale. I didn't vote for the State Budget Act in the fall either. The decision to grant CO2 quotas to Eesti Energia was taken on your behalf and on the level of government, executive power. At the administrative level, the Competition Authority under your authority will also coordinate the price of oil shale. The aim of the state cannot be to distribute resources belonging to all of us as quickly as possible at the lowest possible price. Why have you not organised a public competition for the use of state resources listed above, i.e. CO2 quotas and oil shale?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U33	Thank you. As far as CO2 quotas are concerned, the public competition took place. For all companies, do not talk only about Eesti Energia, it was possible to apply for a free quota for future investments under very strict conditions, in accordance with the rules agreed in Europe and, by the way, the law on ambient air protection approved in this hall. On this basis, the Ministry of the Environment assessed these projects. Seven projects from Estonian companies have been submitted to the European Commission for approval if memory does not deceive me. All these projects must certainly meet the condition that the investment will give a very significant victory from the point of view of environmental protection, otherwise there is no point in carrying them out. Whether or not the investment plan approved by the Estonian Government will be approved by the European Commission, this will become clear in the near future, hopefully in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U34	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U35	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I see that, unfortunately, you do not answer my questions specifically. At the same time, you are talking about protecting consumers. However, you have made decisions that are harmful to consumers. The fact that 150 million euros have been separated from the state budget for the construction of Eesti Energia oil shale boiler is a fact. Similarly, CO2 quotas have been allocated to Eesti Energia. Well, I'll ask you another question. I sent you a written inquiry as to why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not comply with the law and has not developed a legal framework so that companies can operate in Estonia that make houses energy efficient with their resources and power and benefit from the energy savings they have generated. Such companies work in many European Member States. I got your answer, thank you! Your answer was that you didn't plan on doing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U36	Thank you, good questioner! In the light of the strike in Estonia, we are talking very much about the fact that we do not hear each other or even listen to or understand each other. I tried to explain two things to you in a short time. The state of Estonia, through the state budget, does not support any horrible oil shale blocks, but instead makes a financial investment in the Estonian state, not in me, the coalition or anyone owned by the company, which will most likely give the state back its money. We're increasing state assets. We create jobs, we bring back a lot of money to the country. This is not like a gift or support of any kind. Please do not lie to the Estonian people! Secondly, it is exactly the same with these subsidies on oil shale. No, we are doing this to ensure that electricity is as clean, affordable and economically competitive as possible in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U37	As there is little time, I will give you the opportunity to ask only four questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U38	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! I am very sorry that the Minister of the Environment, who is in charge of the Prime Minister, does not know the names of the parties in the Riigikogu. The Minister for the Environment is not in front of the French Parliament today, where there are socialists. He also, unfortunately, does not know that the Social Democrats proposed not to increase the cost of defence in the amount foreseen by the government coalition, and this money could have resulted in an increase in teachers' salaries. But my question to you is this. You promised to cut home expenses. Why are you lying, like the price of electricity is rising?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U39	Yeah, we promised. Once again, I'll tell you what the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance meant by lowering home expenses. The best way to reduce home expenses is to invest in homes and stop heating air. We have open programs to heat apartment buildings, they're still open. We are working to ensure that housing companies overcome fear or other difficulties and that people invest in their homes. Winning in heating costs is 50%, as shown by projects both in Tallinn and elsewhere. It is difficult for people to make these investments; these investments are very much forward-looking. Two weeks ago, the government approved a basic project to support the insulation of private houses. Think about the condition of our private homes! If we're looking at statistics, the biggest cost is heating up a private house. The government comes to the aid of private owners and is ready to support up to EUR 30000, up to 40% of the reconstruction cost for people to invest in their homes. The result is lower costs. We have never made any populist promises that we will share a public service free of charge or uneconomically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U40	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The subject is the price of electricity, but we all understand that if there is no electricity, it doesn't matter how much it costs, because it just doesn't. We have developed oil shale electricity production in this key that is the source of our energy security. If we can see in the next few days that we cannot get oil shale electricity simply because there is a strike, it will question very much how certain our energy security really is and how much it can be guaranteed with oil shale energy at all. With regard to the current situation, or even looking ahead, can you tell us with certainty that we will not be left without energy and that all of this will change or will in no way change your understanding of oil shale energy as our security guarantee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U42	Thank you. With regard to the statements made by trade unions in different disciplines, there is no reason for us to consider any fundamental changes in energy. We must continue to work to diversify energy production, to go to new markets, to reduce the share of energy that pollutes the environment more. But we all have to understand that this is not happening in one or three years, but in energy the targets are inevitably 10 or 20 years away. Today, Europe is talking about 2050. The key question is how we will achieve these changes, how we will achieve an affordable price for electricity for all of us, people and businesses. This is now a fundamental issue not only for Estonia but, in fact, for the whole of Europe. I believe that nobody wants industry or anything else to leave Europe, so we will lose jobs. This is therefore a very important issue. There is no 100% firm response to this, there is no technology that is economically competitive and could be invested firmly in. It's nowhere. This is a difficult issue for Europe now. We have set beautiful, sound goals, but how does this thing work economically? I can say so much about the legal side that it is not possible for a trade union manager to run power plants or other vital companies. Estonian law provides for this possibility only in coordination with the employer. The employer Narva Power Plants has said that he does not agree with such a proposal. Secondly, if there is such a wish, then it must be dealt with next by a national conciliator, if the trade union's wish is legitimate. What has been said to me is that it is an agreement between trade union leaders in the dark that professional associations cannot fulfil. I think that...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U43	Minister, time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U44	... there is no reason to be concerned about the power supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U45	Minister, please, you also have a time limit! Please, next question, Mr Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U46	Thank you. I will continue where a good colleague, Tõnis Kõiv, left behind, I will also turn to the threat of the Narva trade unions interrupting work at the power plant. These demands and threats are very unclear, there is no connection, for example, to the demands of teachers, which are perfectly understandable. But if this happens and production is reduced, has it been calculated how many million euros it will cost the Estonian state and consumers and who should cover this "loss"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U47	Like I said before, I can't imagine this happening. This can only happen if the national conciliator decides to what extent such a company could reduce its core business. As far as I know, no papers or documents have been sent that way. The employer's information, I am referring to Narva Power Plants, is also relatively inadequate. The same, by the way, I can say about the rail sector. Only yesterday were the first meetings between trade unions and employers, Estonian Railways and Elektrirail. It turned out that the chairman of the rail union, Mr Chubarov, asked for the help of the railway managers so that railwaymen would not have to strike because they did not want to do so. That's how the railroad drivers reported to me this morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U48	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U49	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! With regard to the previous question, I come once again to the price of electricity. The price of shale currently accounts for slightly more than one euro cent of the consumer price of electricity, with the consumer paying 11 to 12 euro cents for one kilowatt. If there is a debate in the government on increasing the tax on resources, then I would like to point out that this multiple increase will also have very little effect on the price of electricity. As a minister, do you support an increase in oil shale's resource tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U50	I'd rather not. I support, in the case of oil shale, that is also what we are working on, under the direction of the Minister of Finance, to think through what is linked to the prices on the world oil market. If we are able to produce oil from oil shale, which is a liquid commodity on the world market, and we know that prices on the oil market are volatile, I believe that the owner's income (the owner I consider to be the country of Estonia or the people to whom oil shale belongs) should be more linked to the income generated on the world market, the way in which this type of raw material is taxed in all raw material-rich countries. I support this approach. If there are just any suggestions on resource taxation, of course we are ready to discuss them, but I do not think we achieve as much as we think about increasing the revenue of the state and the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U51	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U52	The next question is from my colleague, Inara Luigas, to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 29 September last year, the Reform Party, IRL and the Social Democrats approved the Riigikogu's decision to ensure the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on the European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments, with which the Estonian state received an extraordinarily large asset obligation of up to EUR 2 billion. Let us recall that the size of the state budget is just over six billion euros, which means that the amount of this commitment is one third of our national budget. Only the Centre Party was against that decision at the time. Last month, on the basis of this decision, Greece's second aid package of EUR 357.24 million was approved in this very hall, which, after the EFSF loan was granted, is automatically also considered to be a debt of the Estonian state. Since only the draft memorandum between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic was approved in the Riigikogu, as we learned here and confirmed by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, please explain whether the draft has become a memorandum and whether any changes have been made to the memorandum. It was argued that after the Riigikogu took a decision, the right to make changes to the memorandum was also allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U54	Thank you, Honourable Asker. First of all, as regards your group's position on the issue of the EFSF, this was probably not a special surprise, since your party was not one of the parties that supported the accession to the European Union. In this sense, your skepticism or position is probably quite to be expected. But when it comes to a decision approved by Parliament only a few weeks ago, the substance of the question was, frankly, a bit confusing. No further changes have been made to this memorandum at the moment. When discussing specific decisions or guarantees relating to EFSF, it is probably important to stress once again that Estonia has not given Greece a cent of money. Estonia has granted a guarantee to EFSF to a certain extent, and EFSF is in turn an organisation or institution that borrows money from the market and lends it to Greece. It is not altruistic aid, it is a loan linked to the fulfilment of very specific conditions. If Greece fulfils these very specific and strict conditions, then, and only then, it has the right to apply for a loan, not for non-refundable aid. The loan has to be repaid and paid with interest, just like the IMF borrowing countries after World War II had to repay the loan to the IMF with interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U55	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U56	Thank you. Dear Minister, I fully agree that Greece must meet the conditions set out, but the memorandum states that Greece's prospects and forecasts are not very good. It has been pointed out that economic growth has slowed down, that uncertainty has increased and structural reforms have also been hampered. It also has a firm date to set all the targets that Greece will have to meet, such as the obligation to submit a tax reform plan by 1 March, the need to adopt a pension reform plan in the first quarter, details of the recapitalisation of the Greek banks, etc. How has Greece been achieving these objectives? How does the government monitor all these reforms?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U57	This is constantly monitored not only by the Estonian government, but by all the parties to the EFSF. Once again, disbursements or lending to Greece are linked to the fulfilment of specific commitments, to the implementation of a specific programme. If this is not the case, Greece will also not be able to obtain a loan from the EFSF. As far as analysts, who similarly monitor what is happening in Greece and assess the current situation and developments, of course there are different assessments, but in general the belief and knowledge that Greece can and must cope with the stages set out in the programme, with these harsh austerity measures, is prevailing today cannot be different. It is in Greece's own interest that these conditions can be met. There are also different views and speculations about whether these tough measures are sufficient to get Greece out of the crisis. Once again, there is a strong belief and conviction that these measures are sufficient and that these conditions must be met. But Greece is under constant surveillance and has also been given advice. As the Minister of Finance confirmed in the debate at the end of February in this Chamber, for example, specialists from the Estonian tax administration have been in Greece for advice. So the hand is constantly being monitored and kept on the pulse so that Greece can carry out its tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U58	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic to monitor Greece's fulfilment of all these objectives. You said that Estonia does not provide financial assistance, but guarantees. But we should know that any loan or aid granted to Greece through the EFSF increases the debt burden of the Estonian state. If the EFSF provides even the first loan to Greece, this means an increase in Estonia's debt burden of 357.24 million euros. Teachers are on strike today and rightly demand a wage supplement. Our Prime Minister has said that no loans will be made and no taxes will be raised. However, teachers also want solidarity and solidarity with Greeks. Solidarity is not one-sided, it is two-sided. Greek teachers should also understand this and accept the lowering of their wages. There is information that Greece needs further help. When will the new package come to this hall to confirm the new support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U60	One minute, one minute, I've said it many times!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U61	Thank you, good questioner! This last argument was pure speculation and I will certainly not go along with this speculation. Once again: Estonia has not granted any financial aid to Greece; Estonia has not granted a loan to Greece in financial terms either. Estonia has granted a guarantee to EFSF, which in turn lends money from the market and lends it to Greece. So there is no way to draw parallels so that the guarantees given to EFSF can somehow be turned into cash in the Estonian state budget and paid out in one way or another. Estonia does not have this possibility. Estonia has not helped Greece financially. As regards the arguments as to whether it was at all possible and reasonable to support Greece in solidarity, I agree, in some respects, with those who say that lending to Greece, preventing Greece from falling into chaos, is a rather egotistical project. Egotistical because it is in the interests of all these countries, including Estonia, that the situation in the Greek economy should be stabilised. If Greece were to fall into the chaos that it would probably do if the guarantees so far were abandoned, the current programme would most likely result in the situation in Estonia becoming more unstable, which in turn would mean loss of jobs and investment. But shutting down investments, not making investments is what Estonia definitely needs the least right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, The time has gone very quickly, so only two questions on the spot can be submitted. Starts with colleague Tarmo Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U63	Thank you. Good minister! Here's the question. I think that Brussels and Frankfurt certainly know what the real moods are in Greece. Our ability and the Greek Parliament can take all kinds of decisions and laws, but they also need to be enforced. I am sure that Greek society is not prepared to go along with this. In Greece, there are other moods; the Greeks look here at northern and central Europe with a very different view. I still wonder where Brussels takes Brussels, where Frankfurt takes it, and where does the Estonian government take such a blue-eyed, blind belief that Greece can do it? I absolutely don't believe that. Can anyone tell me what this faith is based on? Once again, the laws can be passed, but the laws must also be enforced. There is no such readiness in Greek society, I am 100% sure of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U64	Thank you, good questioner! I am completely in the opposite view. As I explained to the forerunners, Greece's possibility of obtaining a loan from the EFSF is directly linked to the fulfilment of specific conditions. If these conditions are not met, it is not possible to obtain a loan. Ultimately, this is, of course, Greece's choice. As regards the preparedness of Greek society and possible changes in mindset or the emergence of extremists involved in the Spring elections, this risk naturally exists. In every society there is a risk that extremists will emerge in these difficult times, and Greece is obviously no exception. However, as you are sure to know, the different political forces in Greece have confirmed that if they succeed in achieving a very strong position after the elections, they will continue with the changes they have started, the reforms will continue because no alternative will be seen. The same contraction of the public sector, unfortunately also wage cuts, the introduction of tax collection on a much more solid footing, one example of which is the cessation of cash tax collection, all of which are stages and changes that need to be made. Once again, the various political forces have confirmed that they will continue to do so. Looking at the general sense of Greek society, of course, none of the reforms that are being carried out is easy; of course, these decisions are not taken with a light heart and will not be taken with pleasure, but in general it is common belief that there really is no alternative and that these difficult and difficult decisions must be made, because chaos is certainly not a better option.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U65	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question, too, concerns the implementation and monitoring of the Memorandum between the European Commission and Greece. How does this monitoring and feedback to Parliament look within Estonia? Who, and how often, gives an overview of this to the government, and what do you think the mechanism would be, how will the government give an overview of the implementation of the memorandum to Parliament? Is it just the role of the opposition that asks questions about this in Question Time, or could it not be that the Government of the Republic, in the name of the Prime Minister, comes to Parliament on a quarterly basis and gives an overview of the implementation of the memorandum? Parliament is very interested in this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U67	Thank you, good questioner! On the government side, the Minister of Finance keeps reporting. When the European Council has been together, the Prime Minister will give an overview of what was discussed at the Council and what is the state of play. However, Members are kept informed and informed much more frequently than on a quarterly basis. The Committee on European Union Affairs is constantly monitoring the situation, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are going there to keep you informed about the latest developments and issues. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, there are also representatives of the opposition. If you have to go further in groups, then everything is certainly very prepared. In any case, we consider it reasonable that the information is ongoing, that there is no form of quarterly reporting agreed upon, but that it must be done once a week, if necessary, or even more frequently. The last debate on the state of play was this week's Monday in the Committee on European Union Affairs. This issue is on the table of Members on an ongoing and continuous basis. If you think that this should be done even more intensively, then it must only be signalled. If the working form of the Committee on European Union Affairs still needs to be improved, for example, in the form of group discussions, we can do so. But I think that the European Union Affairs Committee has done this work very well, and this information has come to the hands of all those interested in it at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U68	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U69	The next question is from my colleague, Deniss Borodich, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U70	Thank you. Good minister! Freight transport by Estonian Railway decreased in January for the sixth consecutive month compared to last year, and they decreased by 19%. According to the company, the decrease was caused by a decrease in oil and oil shale transport. For example, oil transport decreased by almost 24% over the year, while transit transport decreased by around 16%. There is no reason to expect improvement signs in the future. Good Minister, here's my question. What has been the effect of a reduction in transport on the financial performance of the company, whether freight transport is profitable or loss-making?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U71	The company must, if necessary, adjust its activities. You can draw some conclusions from two months. At the same time, the information received from oil carriers is more specific, there are also a number of technical reasons, in addition to those which the public is seeking to explain more, such as the fact that there is a new port in our neighbourhood, etc. It is up to the company to adjust and work accordingly to find new opportunities for new groups of goods and new markets. The positive news is certainly that the volume of container transport, including transit container transport, has increased significantly. This is not the trend of the first two months of this year, but it was the case last year. It is known to be more useful to the company, so it is a positive trend again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U72	Please, Mr Borodich, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U73	Thank you. I didn't get an answer to the first question, but okay. According to the government plan, this year the state-owned infrastructure company EVR Infra and the freight company EVR Cargo will be divided into separate companies according to European rules. From this question, does the government intend to make money, or sell money after sharing EVR Cargo, in the light of the very difficult volumes of transport, or will the maintenance of a potentially loss-making company fall on the taxpayer's shoulders?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U74	Thank you. The assumption of your question, if I heard correctly, is that EVR Cargo is loss-making and remains loss-making. I don't think this assumption is quite correct. The government deals with dividing Estonian Railways into two, based on European rules. Here's the deadline for July 1st. By 1 July, there will be two separate companies: infrastructure and freight transport. Of course, in addition to this distribution, the freight transport company needs to continue to develop, as I said in response to the previous question. Your remark that I did not answer your first question was incomprehensible to me, to put it mildly. I did, didn't I?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U75	Please, Mr Borodich, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U76	Okay, let's talk about financial capacity. There has been a lot of talk in the media about the notorious purchase of Chinese locomotives. It is certainly difficult to add these locomotives to EVR Cargo's balance sheet (as I recall, the transaction cost was about 100 million euros) and these leasing payments make it even more difficult for the company's financial capacity. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs plan to inject taxpayers' money into a company that is working at a loss in the same way as in Eesti Energia, or do you think it would be advisable to consider selling EVR Cargo before the locomotives arrive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U77	Your question was whether the government was planning to inject money in a loss-making company like Eesti Energia. Listen, we can always scold from the Estonian people and, in part, from you that Eesti Energia makes a very correct profit on a wide range of services and products. This was EUR 159 million in the last financial year. Do you call that a loss? It's hard for me to agree with you. The same is true for Cargo. The Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Cargo is responsible for the profitable operation of this market, and that is the point. If we don't, we'll replace the new ones who can act profitably.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U78	A question registered on the spot, please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U79	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm asking about sharing, too. If this division becomes a reality, what is your position or the position of the ministry, whether this division will benefit from more effective management of both emerging state companies, or whether it is more of a fragmentation of the division of a railway company in our small country and in the world or in European terms, rather than a very large railway company? Rather Effectiveness or Fragmentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U80	My personal view is that this division is certainly nothing inevitable, but it is a European rule that must be implemented and that must be acted upon. I understand this rule that a natural monopoly must be shared, i.e. an infrastructure company and a commercial company that competes with each other. We have a couple of companies that provide freight transport services, and there is real competition. In order to avoid possible accusations that infrastructure companies do not treat freight transport companies equally and that there are cross-subsidies, I think, it will ultimately be useful for Estonia too. Although, yes, if we look at the magnitudes of the Estonian railway sector and compare them with the major European countries, where the railway sector is very large, for example Germany or its neighbours, the proportions are very different, but the rules are the same. We follow these rules. After all, we have also made accusations that the infrastructure company does not treat all freight transport companies equally and the competitive situation is not quite uniform, although it is supervised by the Competition Authority and the Technical Supervisory Authority. However, when these companies are divorced, these accusations, whatever they may be, are completely out of order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U81	One last question, Mr Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U82	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! My question also concerns this split into two parts. You said that these are the rules of the European Union. Germany, as far as I know, doesn't want to follow their rules. Is it not once again that we are trying too hard to comply with the rules of the European Union? I asked Kaido Simmermann in the Commission and it turned out that the Estonian Railway Management does not see any joy in weakening this company, doing two companies whose financial capacity is reduced, etc. Do we really have to hurry up and share it like that? Do we even have to share?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U83	The government's decision was that it makes no sense for us to go down the path of some countries that have challenged the European Commission's position in court. In my opinion, litigation on this issue is quite unnecessary. I wouldn't dramatize. However, the damage to financial capacity is not true. These are relatively different businesses, one is a natural monopoly that deals with the infrastructure business, and the other deals with freight transport, transport logistics business. These are completely different companies. They are, of course, linked to a railway with glorious history and so on, but I see nothing dramatic about this division.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U84	Thank you very much. Our time is up. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for asking questions. Thank you very much, members of the government, for your answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U85	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U86	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm going to report an inquiry to Justice Minister Kristen Michal. The title of the enquiry is'suspecting corruption in connection with buildings not authorised to build'. I would remind you that in March last year, the National Audit Office published a report entitled 'Building activities in municipalities with a rapid increase in population'. There was a sample of 85 buildings, and it turned out that 48 of them, which are already ready and where people live, do not have a building permit. 26 photos have been added to the inquiry. I think some of them are absolutely extraordinary. Here, for example, is a four-storey house. I don't know how many apartments there are in this house, but the facade we see has 80 windows. This house was built without a building permit. We are going to ask the Minister of Justice some questions about this. I'll read out a few questions. Has the Ministry of Justice investigated the possibility of corruption in these 48 new construction works without a building permit, or is it planned to do so in the near future? The fundamental question: how much will the Ministry of Justice monitor the results of the National Audit Office's reports and whether any investigations have been initiated in connection with the suspicion of corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U87	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Defence Union Act, initiated on 5 March, of which the commission is the National Defence Commission, and the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated on 5 March and related amendments to other laws, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U88	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendments to other laws. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final amendment of the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws in draft 152. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U89	We will continue to read the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Andrus Saare, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I will sum up with Bill 146. The draft law aligns the billing requirements and the definition of the place where the service is generated with the new requirements in force in the European Union since 2013. In order to avoid tax fraud, a reverse charge on the turnover of gold will be introduced in addition to the special VAT arrangements for metal waste and immovable property from 2011. The conditions for exemption on importation of goods when placing non-Community goods under a customs procedure for release for free circulation shall be made more favourable. During the procedure of the Riigikogu, the provisions of the bill were supplemented to reduce tax fraud in the fuel sector, and the cases in which the lessor can deduct input VAT from the goods and services received for the repair and maintenance of the leasing item were further regulated. At the meeting of the Riigikogu on 22 February 2012, the second reading of the draft was interrupted due to the addition of the draft to the new regulations of the VAT Act and the Liquid Fuel Act. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 6 p.m. on 27 February. No proposals were received from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 5 March. Representatives of the initiators from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Tax and Customs Board took part in the meeting. During the meeting, the opinion expressed by the Estonian Association of Leising Associations in its letter on the addition of Article 31, paragraph 71 of the VAT Act and other letters received concerning the addition of the same provision, including information from the Ministry of Justice, the Competition Authority and insurance companies. The Commission has examined the comments made in its opinions on the purpose of the amendment, its effects, the layout of the provision and the definitions used, as well as the possible incompatibility with the VAT Directive, and maintained that it is necessary to supplement the VAT Act with the above provisions. According to Article 29 of the VAT Directive and the VAT Act, input VAT on goods and services can only be deducted if these goods and services are used for taxable turnover. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the provisions of the VAT Directive and to clarify the law so that the lessor can deduct the input VAT due on the goods and services received for the repair and maintenance of the leased item only if the cost of repair and maintenance is included in its taxable turnover. The Commission does not see the amendment as a possible contradiction with the principles of freedom to conduct a business or with the VAT Directive. Now I am talking about the issues and the question that was discussed in the Commission. Firstly, the change in the process of compensation for damages and insurance compensation for taxable policy holders raised questions. The answer was that it does not depend on the change made, the change is about the subject of VAT and it is not about the timing of the event. Risks were also discussed if the lessee's obligations were not fulfilled when the vehicle was returned. The answer was that if the obligations of the lessee under the contract were to be taken into account, the lessor would recover those costs. This is a general economic risk, a similar situation for the sale of goods; it is not a special case. The potential competitive advantage of foreign leasing companies on the Estonian market was discussed. The representative of the Ministry of Finance argued that this is not the case since, in other countries, the VAT Directive does not provide for the right to deduct input VAT if the goods are not acquired or the service is not provided for taxable turnover. The amendment applies to both operating and capital leases. The Commission was concerned about the distortions of competition that have arisen so far as a result of the different interpretations of VAT law. In the event of their removal, the state budget is estimated to receive around EUR 6 million per year. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday, 7 March 2012, to conclude the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading tomorrow, 8 March and to put it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Andrus Saare. Question from colleague Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U92	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I am asking about the amendment made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which we have discussed repeatedly here. After the meeting of the Commission, however, the leasing companies proposed to postpone the enforcement of this provision on leasing transactions. They argue that its implementation requires IT resources, restructuring of settlements and renegotiation of contracts. What do you think of this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U93	First of all, they are, of course, very late with this proposal. I would have expected this proposal earlier when the Commission discussed it. But I've been in contact with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board. Their view is that it cannot be quite unexpected for entrepreneurs. Firstly, this issue has been on the agenda for over a year. Secondly, in particular, the draft became such a form already in s. February 14th. Thirdly, it concerns not all leasing companies, but only a few individual companies are involved in this market distortion. Fourthly, there is no time, as they say, but a few days, but there are 17 working days from today to 1 April, and in addition, the VAT report for April will only have to be submitted by 20 May. So they can take action today, and there's time to do this job. I believe that the officials of the Tax and Customs Board will understand if, for the time being, everything may not be done quite correctly. Looking at the state, it doesn't make sense, every month and day actually creates a minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U94	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Andrus Saare. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft law were received. Second reading of bill 146 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U95	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the State Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Peter Laurson, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the State Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice initiated by the Government of the Republic took place on 25 January. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was 8 February. a and no amendments to the draft were received by the deadline. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft again at the meeting on 21 February, where the Social Security Department Specialist Mare Jõeorg and Reet Kodu, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, were present as representatives of the Government of the Republic. The Commission also raised questions about the extent to which the reform of all special pensions has been achieved and the status of the proposed regulation of special pensions for judges. The Commission learned that the next amendment to the law on special pensions and indexation of judges and prosecutors would be prepared and planned to be submitted in the second quarter. The committee decided to refer the draft to second reading at the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 7 March and to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the second reading. When the second reading is completed, the third reading should take place on 14 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U97	Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U98	Good manager! Good waitress! We know that there were only 113 special pensioners in 2000. Can you tell me how many special pensioners have come to Estonia in these ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U99	Regrettably, without the public service, this figure had risen to 2283 as of 2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U100	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please stand down, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U101	I'd still like to come to the remote if I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U102	Then please press the "Speech" key! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U103	Sorry about the mess! Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Already in ancient Greece, there was a serious problem as to whether or not officials in key positions of government should be paid for their work. The Patrites were clear that they could rule for free, for the simple reason that they already had money. Other citizens in the fifth century C.E. did not think so. It can be said that democracy in ancient Greece failed in a certain way, precisely because it did not take many centuries for a new democracy in the form of Romans to swallow ancient Greece. But we're coming to this day. The subject of special pensions is very sensitive. I agree with one hundred percent that the loss of special pensions for members of the Riigikogu was a good act for God and the people. Apparently, there are more than one people who, because this pension is no longer available, keep their hands secret at home, but no one in public dares to show dissatisfaction. Thank God you don't dare, then society will realize it was a wise thing to do. However, the draft law we are discussing today concerns a slightly different official body: the institution of the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice. I also agree with this one hundred percent that all officials who, thanks to their work at the National Audit Office or at the Chancellor of Justice, receive a special pension may not have to receive it. But at the same time, I wonder if this is the right way to go to the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General and, in future, to the pension of judges. After all, it was clear from the report that we are also going to go after the pension for judges and prosecutors. We are already sad at times, and there will be dissatisfied voices when a judge, as they say, gets suspended from work. We often don't like the decisions of the DA's office because they seem arbitrary or influenced to us. Whether that is the case or not, it is not up to me to decide from this remote control, but I call on all of us, honourable delegates, to think in our own inner world and thus to shape the positions of political parties, whether we are on the right track to ensure neutral and independent government, which concerns the court, the prosecutor's office and the Auditor General in particular, if we take away certain neutrality from these people, the social guarantees for a more distant future as well. It is quite a mediocre story, if we have a 40-year-old Auditor General, for example, we expect him to be objective and do his job calmly, but clearly he is in the labour market at the age of 50, and he has turned everyone into a fight for the simple reason that he had to be critical. Okay, I guess he can realize himself as a talented and smart person. But I think that for certain institutions and people working in them, we could at least hope in our souls that they will do everything honestly, fairly and neutrally, try to maintain certain opportunities for the future, certain guarantees for old age. I've been wondering why we're so fiercely fighting all this, maybe we're actually acting... I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U104	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U105	In fact, with these popular special pensions, we are acting as if we are winning the limitless love of mankind. I'm sure we're gonna win this a little bit. But is this infinite love really what is necessary to the end? We act like poor, disrespectful people, because we keep trying to take something away from someone and maybe think less about how to make something more. I have discussed with myself why this has happened, and I have come to the strange recognition that within all the parties currently represented in the Riigikogu, thought-making and decision-making have gone to the hands of young people who are not really thinking about old age. Of course, there's something smarter to do when you're 35 than think about how to handle it when you're 70. This is the case for any normal person who does daily work and creates added value. I've been doing this for a long time in my life, too. It doesn't matter to me, I already know how I'm gonna live in old age. But also a judge who cannot create added value might know how he will live in old age. If he knows, he shouldn't go on a slippery road to put something in a jar for old age, bury it and go digging it up under an apple tree when he's 65 or 70 years old when he gives up being a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U106	Thank you, Mr Aivar Riisalu. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U107	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to what Mr Riisalu has said, my speech will be quite short, because I am fully in solidarity with the arguments he has put forward here. I, too, am not in favour of abolishing the special benefits of employees of the National Audit Office or of the institution of the Chancellor of Justice and of people working in court and the prosecutor's office. The more certainty they have about the future, the more objective they are. That's a fact. For certain reasons, I have been in contact with the National Audit Office quite often lately. I am convinced that this is a very professional and high-level organisation. If you start a discussion on special pensions at all, I think it would be necessary to start with another place. An institution such as the National Audit Office is not the right choice to take this issue back into question. That is my personal opinion, but I do not think I alone believe that the proposed draft law cannot be supported. We do not consider it necessary to turn all speeches and exchanges of views into another war here. We're just offering to think again before the third reading, and with this change we could wait a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft law. Second reading of bill 151 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U109	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U110	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be before you today with regard to the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and related laws. In the language of the people, we call it the human trafficking package. Since the first reading, there has been a lot of work on this bill. The Committee on Legal Affairs has gathered six times in this regard. It has been discussed on 6, 7, 9, 11, 14 and 21 February and on 5 March. After completing our first reading, we asked the University of Tartu, the Supreme Court, the Estonian Bar Association and the Public Prosecutor's Office for further opinions. The opinions received highlighted the need to criminalise human trafficking, but also referred to the legal bottlenecks of the draft drafted by the Government of the Republic, precisely in the section on the complexity of crime formations, which are difficult to understand and difficult to delineate. To solve this problem, a working group was formed at the Legal Affairs Committee, which included representatives of the University of Tartu, the Supreme Court, the Legal Affairs Committee, the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice. Our partners were also contacted by the Women's Lawyer Association, the Non-profit Association Eluline, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs and a number of other interested organisations. This has resulted in a relatively large number of revised draft texts. This new text was also discussed at the enlarged session of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 9 February, with the participation of Kristiina Luht, Adviser to the Department of Gender Equality of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the representative of the police, the representative of the non-profit association Eluline, the representative of the Estonian Women's Association Round Table, the representative of the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows and representatives of the Women's Lawyers Association. So what changed the bill? In short, a total of 13 proposals were submitted to amend the draft, of which proposals 3, 6, 8 and 10 to 13 were of a technical nature and were due to changes in the structure of the draft and to the introduction of new elements of the offence. One important change compared to the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic, which was at first reading, is that the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to differentiate the responsibility for contributing to unsolicited prostitution. The draft we have proposed, which is in front of you today, basically divides prostitution into three levels of gravity. Firstly, to tip or assist prostitution; secondly, to make it a little more difficult to pimp and help prostitution; and thirdly, trafficking in human beings. As far as trafficking in human beings is concerned, the difference with the draft Government of the Republic is that the Commission considered it necessary to exchange this section with human trafficking in § 133 of the KarS and, above all, with the situations in which a person is exploited and with the types of acts by which the exploiter forces a person into such a situation. The proposed changes concern both features. It was also approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs as regards the concept of working under unusual conditions. This includes, free of charge, for marginal remuneration or under otherwise enslaving conditions, such as detention of a salary or identity document, coercion and other exploitation situations covered by the terms 'forced labour, slavery or similar conditions, forced labour' in accordance with Article 2 (3) of the Trafficking Directive. Five new coercive acts have been introduced regarding the second feature of the composition. Some of them also exist in the current KarS, such as taking liberty and threatening, as well as exploiting the dependence on another person, which is a completely new concept in the case of trafficking in human beings. The introduction of the term 'vulnerability' created a major debate, and it is still open. The proposal, which is before you, deals with vulnerability in the spirit of the EU Directive on trafficking in human beings, using the wording 'exploiting the lack of real or acceptable choices'. As such, this section of trafficking in human beings is included as an offence. The characteristics of the qualified composition of trafficking in human beings, similar to those of the draft Government of the Republic, are group orientation, multiplicity, minority, etc. These are, in substance, traditional aggravating circumstances. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided certainly to make the penalties for both basic and qualified formations more difficult than is foreseen for more or less analogous acts that have been criminalised in the current criminal law and, in part, more difficult than those contained in the draft Government of the Republic. As a whole new formation, which is not included in the draft Government of the Republic or in the current Penal Code, support for trafficking in human beings was introduced as regards aiding the offence without prior authorisation. In order to make this more understandable, I will give you a good example or an example of § 202 of the Penal Code, "acquiring, maintaining and marketing property resulting from offences', which gives you the opportunity to punish all pimps, hotel managers, drivers, doorkeepers and other persons who know that those whose prostitution they contribute are victims of human trafficking. There was no such difference in the draft of the Government of the Republic, aiding prostitution was punishable regardless of whether a prostitute was a victim of human trafficking or not. As a whole new composition, §s 1332 and 1333 have been incorporated into the Code concerning pimping and aiding prostitution. The essence of this is that organising a meeting between a prostitute and a sex buyer, i.e. influencing a person in any way to start or continue to engage in prostitution, is certainly a more serious crime than simple aiding prostitution, where a person does not directly benefit from it. But here it must also be understood that if there is any form of fraud or violence involved in this influence, it is automatically punishable by the composition of support for human trafficking. As I said at the beginning of my introduction, crimes contributing to prostitution are divided into three groups: firstly, aiding prostitution without direct material use, where direct intent is important; secondly, pimping; and thirdly, trafficking in human beings. Very important paragraphs concern the coercion of donation. The current Penal Code, for example, speaks of the removal of organs in the form of § 118, 121 and 139, the taking of illegal transfer material, and the new draft has added to the coercion of donation. The penalty rules in this respect are based on activities not mentioned in the Act on Artificial Fertilisation and Embryo Protection and the Law on the Treatment and Transplantation of Cells, Tissues and Organs. So, under the new bill, it is illegal or, as I say, it is a crime and it will be punished if a person is put in a position where he is forced to give up his cells or organs, whatever it takes. However, unlike the draft Government of the Republic, this draft does not make any changes to the removal of organs. § 139 of the Penal Code "Unlawful transfer material' remains unchanged. This is one of the most serious crimes against health and we did not see the need to change its wording; it already provides for a penalty of up to 12 years, regardless of the purpose for which it is committed. As regards the coercion of donation, it must certainly be stated that it is similar to that of § 133 'Human trafficking', since in essence all the acts by which a person is forced to do so are similar to those of trafficking in human beings. The draft proposes to amend § 175 of the Penal Code and to title it 'Human trafficking for the purpose of exploitation of a minor'. We have brought together all the crimes that involve tilting minors into some kind of society that is deplorable and potentially detrimental to their development, as well as contributing to such activities. There are quite a number of paragraphs in the current Penal Code, such as 175, 176, 1771, 181. I can introduce all of this to you in greater detail. Tilting a minor to prostitution, aiding a minor to prostitution, using a minor to produce a pornographic work, using a minor to produce an erotic work and attracting a minor to commit a crime in the draft is all covered by these activities to exploit a minor in human trafficking. In this context, it is important to stress that 'influence' is, according to the idea of this draft law, only when it is done in a good way, if, of course, it can be called 'good'. For example, flattering money, fame, or anything. If some form of coercion is used to influence a minor, as described in § 133 'Human trafficking', for example, then subsection 133 (2) is immediately applicable, where the bill provides for imprisonment for up to 15 years. If the aider knows that a minor is condemned to action by the effects of violence or other coercion, it is certainly a support for human trafficking. § 178 "Manufacture of child sporn and enabling it' also changes. The amendment consists in recasting the current provision, with no change in sanctions. The references to § 177 and 1771 are deleted as they are covered by § 175. The Commission last met on Monday 5 March to discuss all these amendments. The members of the committee, Mr Pomerants, Mr Kalle Laane, Mr Andres Anvelt, Mr Igor Gräzin, Mr Kalle Jents, Mr Neeme Suur, Mr Valdo Randpere and Mr Siim Kabrits, took part in the meeting as alternate members, Mr Ülo Tulik, and Mr Linnar Liivamägi and Mr Raini Laide as officials. All 13 amendments were adopted by consensus, but the Commission nevertheless decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading 140 be suspended on Wednesday, i.e. today. It was a unanimous decision. Why did we decide that? Because the introduction of some new expressions requires additional consultation with the people of the legal language, as well as some more details concerning the content of the debate. And certainly, by interrupting, we will give our social partners the opportunity to propose further adjustments to the wording of the draft. The Commission proposes to set the deadline of 9 March 2012 at 4 p.m. for the amendments. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. You have questions. Let's start with my colleague, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you and the other Members of the Commission on behalf of all the associations that you have read out that you have largely taken their opinions into account. The law currently in force talks about the person involved in prostitution. A new concept of 'prostitute' has been introduced into the draft act to amend the Penal Code. When we talk about the victim, it is the exploitation of a person's vulnerable position or even the use of violence. Do you think it is right that such a term be in this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U113	Thank you, my good colleague. Before I answer your question, I'm going to update my report a little bit. I forgot to say one very important thing, which also relates to this question. In fact, unlike the current KarS, all offences relating to prostitution have also been brought under the draft law of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the current law, one paragraph in the section on crimes against public order is 'helping Prostitution', the next paragraph being 'illegal shooting of a red flare'. It's really weird to read. With regard to innovation, it is also possible to consider individuals who are biased to prostitution, whether through violence in the course of human trafficking or through simple influence, as victims in court. Therefore, the Commission will certainly discuss the possibility of replacing the same term as 'prostitute'. My personal opinion is that it is not quite right to call the same victim a prostitute in the courtroom. If there is no wider regulation of prostitution in our judicial area, and I do not see such a need, then we should not use the term 'prostitute' either. My personal opinion is that it should be out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U114	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U115	Sweden has already criminalised the buyer of sex services in the last century: it is not the seller of the service that will be punished, but the buyer will be punished. Norway and Finland are also doing the same. My question is: to what extent would criminalising a sex service buyer help to prevent trafficking in human beings in Estonia? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U116	We did not discuss this directly in the Commission. But if you ask for my personal opinion, I am of the opinion that in such a small globalizing space, if we take the Nordic and the Baltic countries, it will result in one country criminalising the purchase of sex as a wave of misery and misery, or prostitution, into neighbouring countries. In fact, I think banning the purchase of sex is one of the best ways to fight prostitution. The question is how much of this activity goes underground in this case. But let's be realists, this activity goes much underground anyway. It is just like the question of considering drugs: whether it is cheaper to legalise what is not legalised or to contribute not only to combating it by means of criminal law, but also to social methods. My personal opinion is that we should move towards it and it better be in countries with similar cultural backgrounds at the same time. We also know from this experience that when the Netherlands essentially legalised lighter drugs, the result was that all European drug tourism was concentrated in the Netherlands and not very happy about it, frankly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U117	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U118	Thank you! Dear waitress, I was a little confused about the Commission's position on the concept of 'vulnerability'. In other parts of the world, this concept is in itself a well-known category in matters of this kind. It is understood that a person is exploited because of his or her low level of education, his or her financial dependence, his or her state of health, his or her debt, and so on. How did you get that category or concept?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U119	Thank you, good questioner! I may have gone over that question too quickly. In advance, I say that the introduction of the concept of vulnerability will certainly be discussed in the next Committee on Legal Affairs. This is one of the reasons why we believe today that reading needs to be interrupted, and we want to be clear about the use of this concept of vulnerability. Our draft introduces concepts such as exploiting the lack of real choices and taking advantage of the absence of acceptable choices. In essence, this concept should also cover vulnerability in the sense of the European Union Directive on trafficking in human beings. However, the debate on this was still under way in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so I do not know whether we will include the concept of vulnerability in the text of the draft. Perhaps we will also separate the notion of vulnerability within one paragraph of the section on human trafficking. This is a question that we will certainly be dealing with in the next Committee on Legal Affairs sitting after we have been suspended. However, I believe that vulnerability will be a constituent feature of the human trafficking section.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U120	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Only recently, I was invited to Tartu to talk about human trafficking. Finns were also in the hall, and they were interested in how many court decisions we have, for example, about people being forced to donate. Did you discuss this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U122	Good questioner! We did not discuss statistics directly in the Commission, but in the Commission working group, if I am not mistaken, there was a brief discussion of this. In the case of Estonia, the representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office spoke of individual cases that have reached the courtroom in the last about ten years. So in Estonia it is still such an undiscovered land.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U123	Please, Mr Mikko, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U124	Thank you very much. Fear is what keeps the victim's mouth shut. In order to encourage the victims to make confessions, could there not be something that would do that? In Belgium, for example, victims receive a residence permit in order to make it easier to reveal how human trafficking works. Is this the subject raised in the Committee on Legal Affairs? And what is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U125	In advance, I say that this possibility actually exists in the Estonian Code in force, regardless of the crime. If we dismantle the Aliens Act, § 203 of the Aliens Act speaks of cases of temporary residence permit granted in the event of a serious public interest. One of the aims of this provision is to be in criminal proceedings as a victim or witness, which, under the Council Framework Decision, also includes a criminal offence relating to trafficking in human beings. So, in fact, in Estonia, this possibility is entirely there. In addition, Estonian law also has witness protection possibilities. So it is rather a question of the ability of our practitioners to use all the possibilities available in law, as well as the ability to cooperate internationally. I dare say that Estonian laws do not currently create any obstacles to the protection of witnesses or victims. On the contrary, there are opportunities to create preferential conditions where necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U126	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U127	This is probably not exactly the subject of today's draft, but since the debate is interesting, I would like to return once to criminalising the area of prostitution and the purchase of this service. Where is the legal logic that selling is not punishable and buying is? Selling has also been criminalised in a large number of other areas. Is this a pretty gender-neutral approach, and what is the background to this approach? Just for information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U128	In fact, due to the large volume of the draft law in the committee, we did not come to any philosophical arguments on this subject, but there was quite an interesting debate. First of all, I would immediately take the tension off: when we talk about prostitution, I do not think we are talking about activities aimed at one gender. According to different data in Estonia, all of them are very subjective, as prostitution has not been legalized in Estonia, so statistics can only be based on various studies and polls of about 10% of prostitutes in males. In the case of drugs, as in the case of practices that are always banned, both buying and selling are the same crime formation. Philosophy is that this is not a society-tolerated area. This is a social agreement. In the case of prostitution, we often hide our heads in the sand: one way or another, we explain that it is the oldest occupation in the world and it is impossible to fight it. Yeah, that's pretty much impossible to fight. It stays. I imagine that even in North Korea, it certainly exists. However, if society still does not tolerate any phenomenon, it must also state clearly that the promotion of this phenomenon in any way, whether buying or selling, is, in a relatively similar way, deplorable and that the drivers of this activity must be combated in the same way. I dare say that banning prostitution is cheaper than legalising it. This is because, as in the case of drugs, in the case of prostitution, even if its surface is legalised, much of the cash flow associated with organised crime remains hidden anyway. So the pimps and anyone else aren't interested in that in the end. So I tend to think that these areas should be more rigorously monitored. I dare say from the point of view of my previous life, as well as from the stories of my Dutch colleagues, that we do or do not want to, but that prostitution is accompanied by organised crime, money laundering and other vices, which ultimately have to be fought by law enforcement authorities. So this legalization, especially in some small part of the globalizing world, isn't going anywhere. Apart from everything else, there will be some kind of perverted tourism in the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U129	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U130	Thank you, Madam President. A good colleague from the Commission! How would you assess the Commission's cooperation with the social partners when dealing with this draft? Was it successful, and were their proposals taken into account? It often happens that contact with the social partners is poor, how was it this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U131	That's a very good question! On the basis of my brief experience with the Riigikogu, I can say that so far this has been a draft procedure that has not yet been completed, one of the most meaningful cooperation projects with the social partners. I have all their opinions printed out here in different stages. I'm not going to read them, but I dare say that most of them have been written into the bill in one way or another. However, I would like to say with all due respect to our partners that the Penal Code cannot solve social problems. The Penal Code can set some limits, hindering the development of some kind of malpractice in society by making sanctions more widely known, but it certainly cannot put a stop to phenomena that do not disappear even if they are subject to the most severe sanctions. Unfortunately, I have to admit that some of these proposals were extremely emotional, but we certainly picked out the openings and decorated the bill with them. Once again, human trafficking is such an area that maybe it would be worth thinking in the Ministry of Social Affairs about an anti-trafficking law that regulates public authorities' responsibilities in a wider sense in order to better control this area, just as the anti-corruption law does. This is a bit broader, but in general I think that cooperation was positive and this positive cooperation will definitely continue. I will be honest with you that the Penal Code is a piece of legislation that will never be completed. Society is changing and without the social partners it is not possible to assess these changes quickly enough. I believe that, with the help of the social partners, we will be able to complement this code in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U132	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt, for your answer to the questions and your presentation. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us now go to the amendments, 13 of them. Proposals Nos 1, 2 and 3 are presented by the lead committee, proposals Nos 4, 5, 6 and 7 are also presented and taken fully into account by the lead committee, including proposals Nos 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 presented and taken fully into account by the lead committee. We have examined all the amendments. As the lead committee has proposed that the second reading be suspended, I will set the deadline for the submission of 140 amendments at 16 a.m. on 9 March. The second reading of bill 140 has been interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U133	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Code of Civil Procedure. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U134	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Code of Civil Procedure. The draft establishes anti-dependency assistance as a sub-category of psychiatric assistance and anti-dependency rehabilitation assistance aimed at restoring the addict's social capacity. The main focus of the draft is on providing assistance to young addicts. Greater flexibility in providing assistance to children is ensured by the possibility provided for in the draft to provide non-hospital anti-addictive rehabilitation assistance to a minor addict. In current law, psychiatric assistance is permissible only in the psychiatric department of the hospital. In order to be able to do so outside, the draft will establish a licence and other requirements for the anti-dependency rehabilitation provider, supplementing, respectively, the psychiatric assistance law and the procedures for placing the Code of Civil Procedure in a closed institution. The need for anti-dependency assistance is decided by a psychiatrist based on the person's health status. This confirms the exclusive competence of the physician as a specialist in the detection and diagnosis of mental disorder. In this way, the draft guarantees the protection of the rights of the person and excludes the provision of psychiatric assistance to persons with a problem of addiction without the involvement of a doctor. According to the draft, non-intentional anti-dependency rehabilitation is part of essential psychiatric assistance for minors. The difference lies in the place where the treatment is applied. Recovery aid is not only applied as hospital care, but also outside the hospital with an anti-dependency rehabilitation provider. The draft complements the provision of inevitable psychiatric assistance beyond the control of the will only by adding the above-mentioned option. The need to allow for inescapable psychiatric assistance beyond hospital control to a minor is due to the fact that a minor in particular needs as flexible an approach as possible in the provision of psychiatric assistance as a result of his or her age. The justification for treatment will continue to ensure that treatment always starts as hospital care, and non-hospital anti-dependency rehabilitation can only be applied with the permission of the court. The draft does not change the basis for applying treatment beyond the will, so there is no possibility that the treatment could apply to a wider range of persons compared to the current one. The draft does not provide for the possibility of extra-hospital care for adult addicts. The draft also lays down the foundations and procedures for the financing of anti-dependency rehabilitation assistance to minors. The implementation of the draft does not entail any direct costs. The draft also lays down conditions and quality requirements for anti-dependency rehabilitation, which we know should not impose additional costs. Support services for minors addicts have been funded and are also planned to be financed from public health programmes in the coming years. By the time of entry into force of the draft, we have planned 1 January 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U135	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Pikhof, from the Social Affairs Committee on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U136	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable fellows! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the preparation of the first reading of the draft 170 took place on 20 February. In addition to the members of the Social Affairs Committee, the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the ministers involved in the field took part in the meeting. The Minister of Social Affairs presented the contents of the draft to the members of the Commission. The main objective is to provide in law for the provision of anti-dependant assistance to addicts and the provision of inescapable psychiatric assistance regardless of the will of the minor. The latter is accompanied by a limitation of the minor's freedom and other fundamental rights. The draft also lays down the foundations and procedures for the financing of anti-dependency rehabilitation assistance to minors. The draft concerns the issue of the fundamental rights of a person. The fundamental right to freedom is restricted, but it is not fundamentally new. According to the provisions of § 11 (1) of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, a person who has a serious mental disorder that restricts his or her ability to understand or control his or her behaviour and who, in the event of non-hospital care, may endanger the life, health or safety of himself or others and for whom other psychiatric assistance is not sufficient, may still be treated under urgent psychiatric care without his or her consent or his or her legal representative's consent. So far, if anti-intentional treatment could only be provided in a hospital, the bill states that it can also be done outside the hospital. The draft establishes a new closed body, including an operating institute and national supervision. In order to harmonise the supervision of psychiatric assistance to date, the Health Board will supervise. And this is regardless of whether the treatment is provided in or outside the hospital. The funding takes place through the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs from the budget of the Institute for Health Development. And now, in a few words, the decisions of the Commission. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 7 March 2012. This decision was taken by consensus. The proposal is to conclude the first reading, which was adopted by consensus. The deadline for amendments was 10 working days; the Commission appointed Heljo Pikhof as rapporteur. This decision was also consensual. The deadline for submitting amendments is 21 March 2012 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U137	Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. You have a question. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U138	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, This amendment states that anti-dependency rehabilitation is provided by psychiatric health care providers and by public or local authorities and by private legal entities. As this legislative provision also concerns local authorities, I would like to ask: were representatives of local authorities also invited to the meeting of the Commission and, if so, what did they say about this draft law? I know that local authorities are afraid of all the commitments that increase their financial expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U139	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Pikhof! Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 170 amendments on 21 March at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 170 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U140	Thank you, good questioner! The meeting was attended by the Minister and other representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs; unfortunately, the representatives of the local government were not invited. I think we will do this in the next Commission meeting. That's a very good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U141	Our last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Buildings Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts has already come to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U142	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to contribute to improving the efficiency of energy use in buildings, allowing users of existing buildings easier access to information about the energy consumption of the building and possible energy saving measures, in order to contribute to informed choices and decisions. The main changes compared to the current law are the modification of the term "significant renovation' and the introduction of the term "essential energy-intensive technical system' into the existing Code. As a result, it is easier to distinguish between which renovations, taking into account the cost of border constructions and technical systems, have to comply with minimum energy performance requirements. The term "essential energy technology" combines all systems that need to be taken into account in the calculation of minimum energy performance requirements. In other words, emphasis will be placed on the design and construction of the building heating system, the water heating system, the air cooling system and the ventilation system. In addition, the draft establishes the basis for imposing stricter requirements on the energy performance of public and local government buildings than private buildings, where appropriate. The aim is for the public sector to set a positive example for the private sector. More specific requirements on the energy performance of buildings have been established by the Government of the Republic Regulation. The draft complements the regulation of the energy label. Provision is made for the energy label to be visible to visitors by ensuring an internal climate in buildings occupied by public or local authorities holding more than 500 square metres of useful space. The energy performance certificate shall only be recorded electronically in the national building register, by the economic operator who issues the label. The draft also provides for the possibility of penalising persons who do not have an energy performance certificate, although this is required. The regulation requiring the energy label to be transferred when designing, disposing of or renting a building in order to ensure an internal climate already entered into force on 1 January 2009 and no changes are made to this regulation. Therefore, the clarification of the regulation does not entail additional financial obligations for the owners of buildings who do not want to make a transaction with their assets because they do not have to order an energy label. The procedure for recording heat and cooling equipment shall be changed. In particular, a regulation based on the possibilities provided for in the current Energy Efficiency Directive that each Member State may apply advice before a device is selected and installed, should be considered more purposeful, as a more appropriate and effective solution will be chosen in such a case in accordance with the recommendations of the specialist. Therefore, the designer is obliged to advise the owner of the building, if any, on the choice, replacement of the boiler, cooling unit or heat pump and other changes to the technical system and alternative solutions to assess the energy efficiency of the heat or cooling unit. The bill adds the requirement that the operator who installs a heat or cooling unit must record the technical data of a heat unit with a nominal capacity of more than 20 kilowatts and of a cooling unit with a rated capacity of more than 12 kilowatts in the national building register. These requirements shall ensure that the owner is already aware of its energy efficiency when selecting and installing a heat or cooling unit. With regard to the draft, the Apartment Association Act, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act are also harmonised, the amendments of which are due to the new energy label regulation, so that the energy label data will in future only be entered electronically in the National Building Register. This is done, as has been said, by the operator who gives the label. Therefore, the current regulation that owners may require an energy label on paper will cease to apply. The draft provides for different entry into force triggers for different provisions. Most of the new provisions should enter into force on 9 January 2013. This is due to the fact that the draft is based on the corresponding amendments to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, some of the provisions will enter into force on 9 July 2013. This is because, as a result of the Directive, some of the requirements of the Directive will apply later to buildings in which public and local authorities are not established. Examples include requirements for building energy efficiency and heating and cooling equipment. In short, we propose that this draft be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U143	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the questions. Please, colleague Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is clear from this draft that when renting a dwelling, the result of an energy audit or at least an energy efficiency figure or a weighted energy special use class should be included in the advertisement. We know we have about 21000 buildings with apartment property, plus private houses. In many of these buildings, such energy audits have not yet been carried out. Has there been enough time left for this point to enter into force so that anyone wishing to rent their apartment can make this audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U145	Firstly, this requirement still applies. True, there is a requirement that public adverts in the sense of our daily turnover, i.e. real estate portals, must also have the information contained in the energy label, whether it is renting or buying or selling. This ordering of the energy label, if you look at current prices, is not expensive. We need to be aware that this requirement has been relatively old for a long time, but the habit of ordering this label with buildings or apartments for any transaction, including rental, is also important to know the actual energy cost of the building. But surely these new requirements will help us to root out this habit. I do not think that this would in any way prevent transactions or increase the price of the services concerned. Above all, we need to think about the interests and rights of the tenant or the buyer here. They are often ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U146	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! It is very good in itself that we can get one step closer to being more aware of the need for energy savings in Estonia and start issuing energy labels to houses. But are you aware that, according to the regulation, household electricity consumption will also be taken into account when calculating energy efficiency? This means that the electricity consumption of all electricity-powered appliances will be multiplied by two instead of the current 1.5 in accordance with the Regulation and will be taken into account in the calculation of energy consumption. This, however, does not show the real energy efficiency of the house, rather in those families with more...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U148	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U149	Are you aware that this is misleading? And if you are, what do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U150	One minute! One more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U151	I'm taking your claims with some caution. This issue certainly needs to be clarified, perhaps a regulation or a draft is somewhat misleading. Just in case, between the first and second readings, the experts and I will clarify that. In fact, the subject is of a relatively technical nature and we are not accustomed to delving into such numbers at all. But what is important is that we get used to operating energy efficiency as everyday consumers, so that we calculate, as in the case of driving, how much fuel is needed to travel one distance or another. Obviously, we are also monitoring how much fuel is spent on road travel, in the city and in congestion, etc. This is likely to be the case for certain types of buildings. I think that the ability to operate with energy efficiency numbers is extremely important. However, if there are any inaccuracies in the methodology, we ask the experts to comment on this issue, but I dare say that these methodologies are relatively universal across Europe. It's not like we're making something up here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U152	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U153	Thank you. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum states that the total cost of this draft is estimated at EUR 70000, which is necessary for ordering energy performance certificates for state-owned buildings. However, the same legislative amendment also provides that in certain cases energy labels must also be ordered by private individuals and local authorities. What are these costs and are the plans to cover this new cost item for local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U154	The question concerned the local government and the private sector? Both? If we look at the cost of the energy label, I dare say it will remain within the framework of normal management. In the private sector, it is quite difficult to say this, but even in the case of the state, it is not EUR 70,000 for state assets labels knows what kind of money. The same can probably be said of the additional costs incurred by municipalities. In the case of private individuals, yes, if we could propose some kind of accounting model by house, then we could do so, but the bill is also based on the fact that it is not mandatory for private owners if there is no transaction. This is a man's house, and no one can force him to put up a sign there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U155	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U156	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You said this by explaining the bill that ordering an energy label is not expensive and cost approximately EUR 200. Can you explain what this EUR 200 has come from? A little more specific: what is the price of the energy label?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U157	I didn't say that number, but it's probably the right size. This is the case for the companies currently active on the market. The company has its own costs. When companies offer such a service, they calculate some kind of profit. The cost of labour, the cost of certain equipment, is not this price formed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U158	Please, my colleague Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U159	Thank you. Dear Minister, The draft is submitted to a company that installs heat and cooling equipment, with certain requirements, which are then on advice and later on on on the registration of equipment. There is also talk of a fine in the back, which is EUR 1600. My question is this: how and who will ensure that these requirements are met? In itself, the registration and advice of equipment are reasonable requirements, but how and who ensures that they are met?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U160	This is guaranteed by the inherent legal compliance of our businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U161	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U162	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Compliance with this regulation will be monitored by the Technical Surveillance Authority get it very good that there is a check! But I ask you, can you be sure today that the Technical Surveillance Authority is competent to do so? This requires that there should be a quite a number of people working there who are good construction experts, who possess both calculation methodologies, technical solutions for constructions and technical equipment used in buildings. Perhaps you're planning to increase the competence of the Technical Surveillance Authority, increase the number of additional staff. Is there a resource for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U163	I heard you say that this regulation will be monitored by the Technical Surveillance Authority. But right now we're discussing compliance with the bill, not the regulation. I'm sure you're thinking of a couple of regulations under this law. The Technical Surveillance Authority has a role to play, of course, but it does not concern any comprehensive economic activity register held by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. However, the question concerned the competence of one authority or another and it is clear that if it is not, it must be increased. To this end, there are the following methods: upgrading or retraining of existing people; second, self-training; third, hiring already trained people; fourth, purchasing competence. And if we are now thinking about the budget of the Technical Surveillance Authority and its development amounts, it can be said that these methods are covered by the budget. I think that, as far as competence is concerned, it is rather a problem that not all wisdom and skills can be acquired at the same time. The way it is at school: you don't start to think about it, you have to have experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U164	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U165	Thank you. Dear Minister, The energy performance certificate must obviously be applied for by all those with a useful area between 500 and 1000 square metres. The application for an energy label shall also be accompanied by a list of measures to improve energy efficiency. I understand that this list is not meant to remain on paper alone, but must also do some substantive work. And since the legal provision also includes a word pair such as "significant reconstruction," it can be assumed that in many houses this important reconstruction must be undertaken. With all our buildings now in mind, have you made any record of the extent to which people living in old houses are able to make such expenses in the present situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U166	You started your question from 500 square metres, which still only concerns buildings belonging to the state and local authorities. But surely increasing energy efficiency is a major challenge, also for the state and local government. You mean apartment buildings, too? You will probably not be aware of a large-scale government programme in which we managed to use certain resources. It is working now and, of course, it must not stop. The logic is that, in most cases, investments in energy efficiency should pay off. However, in the case of both state and local governments, the question of how to manage real estate as a whole in such a way as to make this economic return felt. Although the principles of accounting and budgeting have changed, we are still accustomed to thinking and acting on a cost-based basis, as if the expenditure saved in the future is not revenue. This is the same subject that Mr Aaviksoo has tried to clarify here when talking about schools. There is always this kind of cost-based thinking. But I think that, in the case of both the state and the local government, from the point of view of the state, I can talk more about real estate management and investment. In the end, it's worth it if you heat less. As far as private homes are concerned, there are different types of houses. From a common sense point of view, a private operator should be very interested in investing and I can see whether it is industrial buildings or office buildings that are becoming more and more a reality. Firstly, new buildings will take this into account, while old ones will take measures to save energy. But let's just say things could go a lot faster. The same is true of residential buildings, including apartment buildings. We've talked a lot about this in this Chamber too. It should be made clear to the people that this is not about the Fatherland and Res Publica Union wanting to save home expenses, but it is their great opportunity. Yes, the situation is uncertain. Whether we have come out of the economic crisis or not, we do not know yet. Probably have to take out some loans. At the same time, we have real examples that we need to promote more, that in fact, a person in five years who lives in a properly renovated apartment building in one apartment or another already wins financially. In other words, if, for the sake of investment, it has to add its own contribution to the loan taken by the building management company, it is already going to win back the money because it pays less for the heat. In addition, it will obviously win a better living environment if the renovation of the apartment building is complete, then ventilation and the entire indoor climate will improve, in other words, man will win in his health. And thirdly, the very clear financial dimension is also the fact that if the apartment building is fixed, it means that the market value of the house will increase exponentially, by 20 to 30%. And it will last for at least another 20 to 30 years. From the point of view of the owner, he wins a lot of home expenses, especially in terms of heating, but also in terms of other energy costs. And they're very big victories. But, of course, we must consider people's financial opportunities and show some caution. This has also led to the launch of the support programme currently provided by the State. That's exactly what we're talking about, in the big way, private homes. The whole issue of investing in energy efficiency is, it seems to me, somehow still unconscious to the end. Most of all, I am frustrated not by you, Mrs Luigas, but by some of your colleagues and social democrats, by the attempt to mock this call to reduce home expenses, by the call to clean up and win their homes. Not you! But every once in a while, here and there, they try to laugh at it, to mock that the subject has been raised. They are trying to reverse what we proposed before the elections. It's like we're supposed to be providing a public service out of our money, whether it's water or electricity without money. Let's not taunt it! I think it's very big, it's a public enterprise. We'll fix our housing fund and other buildings to save it. It has an impact on jobs, it has an impact on foreign trade, given where we get fuel, and there are other very much wider effects for the whole country. Thank you for this good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U167	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to this draft contains references to a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Are we going to take over this directive to 100% in this case, or have we also been traded in order not to meet all the requirements? Because it's no secret that sometimes it's been that we're trying to be the best student in class, and maybe it isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U169	We traded when this directive was made. Please note that all these directives are born in a trading room where we have also been sitting at the table. That's where we got a lot of trade. This is our agreement now, and we are men of honor, we are still fulfilling the agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U170	Please, Mr Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U171	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. It is very nice that encouraging the insulation of private homes has also started to move. But please specify the schedule when it will be possible to start applying for extra money to heat private houses through KredEx!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U172	A public consultation is currently underway. In particular, I have sent out a draft regulation after an agreement has been reached within our government and also with the Luxembourg Government. This bill is available to all interested parties. The public consultation should end on Friday this week. Then we will examine which proposals have been received. This draft regulation is very long and comprehensive, as it concerns all conditions, volumes and also procedural repeats, how this measure can be made relatively easily accessible to the owner of a private house, while at the same time simply being verifiable by the person implementing the programme. If there are proposals on the table on Friday, we can make a decision. I believe that by the end of next week, if there are no new unexpected questions raised, this regulation should have been adopted. Therefore, beyond that, the next week, it is likely that the round of applications could be opened. This is the most optimistic course of action. But it might be poisoned that by mid-April this round will be open. We certainly don't want to let it go any further. We'd like to start sooner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U173	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U174	Thank you. Good minister! One of the principles of this government coalition is that we are not borrowing. But I ask: is a loan to make the energy economy more sustainable really evil? If we borrow, clean up the energy economy, save money and win money in the end, is it really evil? If we don't invest in the energy economy, if we don't invest extra money in it, I think it's a crime. It's like we're always heating up the weather, but there's no results.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U175	Yes, I think that if there are projects of the kind in which the state is reasonable to invest, and we are not talking here about the private sector and the local government sector, where there is a lot of borrowing, if we look at the debt burden of local governments, then it should not be ruled out. And the current government coalition has not ruled that out. But we have managed to find money from other sources for investments that public authorities or public asset managers have been able to prepare. There hasn't been a need to borrow money from the market with a spectacular, resounding slogan. We have had the European Union's resources; we have had the money that has been received thanks to successful transactions with CO2 quotas. There's enough money out there to invest. In addition, we have pursued a rather reasonable state property policy, concentrated state property in the hands of the State Real Estate Company, whose one principle has been to keep this objective in mind when making investments. I think we should continue all this. It is quite clear that, since the country is such a large owner, we cannot invest too much in a very short period, because it would affect prices and we would not be able to implement all the projects either. In my opinion, we just have to stick to this direction. In the nearest year or two, it should certainly be clear whether the country needs to find any additional funds for such activities. I don't rule it out. One possible source of money is the same sale of CO2 quotas; these revenues could be directed towards investments to improve energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U176	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I will look at Section 6 of the explanatory memorandum, 'Expenditure for the implementation of the Law'. Actually, it doesn't say what the title says. The only thing we're talking about is how much the country needs to contribute. And there's this interesting line that local governments have the same responsibility. About that life shows, and it's all a long-acting venture. You have traded on this directive in the European Union, but have you also discussed this draft with local authorities, a community of local governments or an association of cities? Or do you intend to inform them about these matters later, after the draft has already passed through the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U178	Thank you. This bill has been initiated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We have this absolute rule, unlike what the newspapers write, and the people think that we are sending out drafts to all our partner organisations, all the organisations involved, we are informing them, waiting for their opinions. Practically all the drafts of the Ministry of Economic Affairs go to the Association of Municipalities and the Association of Cities to hear their opinions. I do not currently have with me any information on the specific views expressed by the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments. Rather, I think with this question about local governments, you are turning this issue upside down so that you can see that Ansip put an obligation on Savisaar, but did not give any money. On the contrary, it is the establishment of certain rules. We must, of course, also think about the capacity of our local authorities, whether they can manage and repair their buildings sensibly when it comes to public policy. Now the requirement is that the government of a city or municipality should put an energy label on its building, the right to bill for it. Again, efforts are being made to raise the problem that social dialogue has been interrupted and that everyone has gone home arrogantly. I don't agree with that. Frankly, it's not that much of a cost to the local government. Not to mention that the government has now created quite real financial opportunities for municipalities to make their energy saving investments. Most of the money comes from quota sales. 'Most' may have been said a lot, but half of this revenue has certainly gone to municipal buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U179	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'd like to be more specific. If I understand correctly, the owners of the apartments must anticipate their contribution to this program. From this, I have the question: have the options of the owners been taken into account? As we know, their wallets are limited in the current economic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U181	Yeah, it's accounted for. All of us have limited access to our wallets! And the costs specifically resulting from this requirement are not very high. What's the problem? The problem is what we talked about earlier with my colleague Luigas. Renovation of apartment buildings is needed in order to reduce home costs. That's the problem with managing families, the budget being what it is. And that is why we have foreseen this programme, which is still open for applications. Apartment houses are provided with a renovation allowance programme. As a maximum, the State currently supports 35% of the cost of the renovation project. That's one. Secondly, already three years ago, we introduced a cheaper loan, offering apartment buildings a loan with an interest rate of around 1% lower than in the market. And thirdly, we have supported 90% of the cost of energy audit, design and monitoring of apartment buildings. Simplified: it would probably not be reasonable and practical for the state to take up and nationalize all apartment buildings. I don't want to call our landlords that poor. But in order for them to be able to make these investments and pass through these bottlenecks, these measures are proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U182	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U183	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would not now like to argue about the ideology of this programme and the resources involved in this programme. My question, however, was that in my region of Ida-Virumaa, as you know very well, the contents of people's wallets are so severely limited that all money is needed to live and pay the necessary costs. It is very difficult to find money in this wallet to invest in a good programme that will benefit in the future. My question was whether it was considered in your ministry that not all people can participate in this programme now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U184	I would answer that question like this: I understand your concern. Of course, we have families that really barely come to an end. But even in families like this, let's assume that they live in an apartment building, that they are "abiding" and pay their heat bills properly after the house has been properly renovated, i.e. the "full investment," the cost of which, of course, depends on the house and the situation of the house, is actually going to decrease. If not very modestly offered, but even half of the heat costs can be saved. And we know that heat bill accounts for the largest part of our home expenses, whether you're electrifying or getting roomwarm from some kind of district heating or some other way. That's where the savings come from! How can we help these people? In fact, a certain triangle is formed here: the state with its support programme, plus this loan facility, and there is also a housing company that should have some kind of equity at hand, and a bank. There must be some way to cope with this economic challenge in order to move forward in the future, after all, the family budget actually wins. I would point out: the association of housing associations has many different examples of practice that there is probably no point in promoting such things in this way, so that the owners of the apartments should immediately have a very high level of equity. If everyone's share of the investment should be covered 100% immediately, it will scare everyone away. Maybe 5%. I draw the attention of everyone living in housing associations to the fact that the accounts always include everything in the book, where there is a reserve where depreciation money is collected. So where does the money come from? After all, it has been collected from people for months; we have lived in independent Estonia for at least 20 years. Most housing associations, however well functioning, have such a reserve. This can be introduced in order to make this investment. So I think that if the housing associations work with the bank and use the government's programmes, this is a problem that can be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U185	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Aasa, from the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U186	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Construction Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Housing Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 20 February. The rapporteur for the commission was Arto Aas. The draft was presented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Margus Sarmet, Head of the Construction and Housing Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Madis Laaniste, Head of the Department of Sustainable Energy of the Energy Department. The main objective of the draft is to clarify the minimum energy performance requirements under the Energy Efficiency Directive and related to the energy label. The draft will make it more precise as regards the installation and registration of boilers and air conditioners. This means that in the future larger boilers and air conditioners will have to be registered in the building register. It should be noted that the energy label has not yet been applied in its hoped-for form in Estonia. The energy label is available in approximately 18% of apartment buildings and approximately 2% of single houses. According to the current law, where a building is rented or sold, the lessee or the new owner must have access to the energy label, but if this is not possible, this has not prevented the transaction from taking place. The Commission discussed the role of the state in improving building supervision. The obligation to carry out public supervision is imposed on local authorities. Consideration could be given to improving its competences and capabilities and, where possible, increasing its resources in the field of supervision. The MKM has also discussed the implementation of the impartiality obligation of owner supervision. This was about nearly zero energy requirements for buildings to be built in the future. The consultation revealed that the concept of nearly zero energy is different for each type of building. It was discussed whether it would be possible for Estonia to adapt these requirements to our circumstances, and it was generally agreed that until now, the full clarity of what the concept of zero energy means, as if not. The question also arose as to whether it would be possible to impose a requirement on new buildings to install individual heating meters, precisely because of the problem of empty and unheated apartments. The obligation to install individual heating meters for new buildings is regulated by Government Regulation No 258 of 20 December 2007 on minimum energy efficiency requirements. According to the Regulation, the obligation to install heating meters is for new houses and this obligation must be technically and economically justified. It was, of course, about applying for an energy label, which the previous speaker spoke about for a very long time. The energy label requirement applies from 2009. It is important to note that applying for an energy label is mandatory for the building management company, if even one of the apartment owners so requests. If there is even one owner who wants an energy label for the house, the building management company must order it within one month. For apartment buildings, the cost of obtaining an energy label is divided according to the number of apartments. If there was a discussion earlier about what the energy label costs, I have looked at different websites and seen that prices start at around 80 euros and go to a few hundred euros, but the average price of the energy label should be 100 euros. If it's distributed to the residents of the apartment building, it's not a huge expense for the owners of the apartment. The background is that Tallinn has in the meantime compensated the building associations for ordering this label, and the state has also provided assistance in ordering audits and labels through KredEx. The Commission also raised the issue of the obligation to notify the requirement for an energy marker. If the new regulation enters into force, the notices for the sale of real estate must also include the details of the energy label. IT development of the construction register is also under preparation, which will hopefully be completed this summer, according to the Ministry. Energy labels will be issued through the building register. The records of the building register are public. This means that real estate portals should have the possibility to verify the existence of an energy label in the future. The requirement to notify the energy label in sales adverts arises directly from the Directive. The requirement for an energy performance certificate shall apply only if the owner wishes to carry out a transaction. I've been communicating with real estate sellers, and they think it's very good that promotions have to have energy label data. At the same time, MKM's representative in the Commission expressed the opinion that the state's information work on energy labelling requirements should be better, and should be done more actively. The Commission also discussed the importance of the example of the state and the public sector in building energy-saving buildings. There was an interest in which partners the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has involved in the preparation process. There were quite a few, including the city of Tallinn. In addition to the parties involved in the government, the Economic Commission invited the Association of Estonian Apartment Cooperatives and the Association of Estonian Real Estate Administrators and Careers to take part in the draft in accordance with good practice. Finally, the Commission's decisions. First, send the draft law amending the Construction Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for first reading in the Riigikogu. a March 7th. Secondly, to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 156. Thirdly, it is proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 21 March at 21 a.m. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U187	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. I would now like to ask a question from my colleague Jaanus Tamkivi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! How is the quality of the energy performance certificates that, I understand, will become mandatory for real estate transactions ensured? It is precisely in this sense that, when these energy labels are issued, they should still be substantive and reflect the reality of the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U189	Thank you, good question! If I am not mistaken, the same government regulation lays down the relevant minimum requirements and, as far as I know, it is the Technical Surveillance Authority that should check all of this. But let's look at the sanctions for mistakes. Indeed, when I was familiar with these materials, it turned out that the market also has poor quality production. So this is definitely a separate objective so that these pseudo-offers disappear, especially now that we hope that the ordering of energy labels will get a new start.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U190	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Aas. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague, Urve Palo, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U191	Madam President, thank you very much. The objective of making buildings more energy-efficient is supported by social democrats on two sides. For buildings to be energy-efficient, everyone, especially consumers, wins. The operating costs of an energy efficient house are much lower and consumers do not spend large amounts on cooling, heating and electricity. Unfortunately, the transposition of these European Union standards, the introduction of minimum energy efficiency requirements and the obligation to provide the energy label to buildings alone do not ensure that all new buildings are actually energy efficient, not to mention old buildings. The energy efficiency sign on the wall of the building does not guarantee an energy-saving house, which requires much more than adopting standards or forcing the sign to be hung on the wall. In order to save energy in existing buildings, long-term and measurable objectives, policies and, of course, funding must be set out. Currently, nearly 40% of all energy is consumed in buildings, and our energy consumption in buildings is double that in Finland or Sweden. We should therefore be able to halve this consumption. Energy saving requirements for new buildings are not sufficient, as the construction of new buildings is less than 1% of the building fund per year. It would take more than a hundred years for new buildings to replace the old ones. It is important to focus attention not only on making new buildings more energy efficient but also on existing buildings. Unfortunately, Estonia has for a long time been in a situation where there is no clear management of construction activities, the process is rather random than not chaotic. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should set up a building board to operate all construction activities in Estonia. Designing the current minimum energy performance requirements is difficult and therefore many construction projects do not respond to modern energy saving solutions, not to mention constructions. The Agency should therefore be responsible for developing specific indicative standard solutions and operating rules for energy efficient buildings. This has been done by our northern neighbours, such as Finland and Norway, where the state has made it very easy for users to understand how to build a house that is energy-saving, with the help of large and detailed model solutions and guidelines. The Building Board should also coordinate the building supervision system in Estonia. The state must see its role and responsibility here. The current situation, where it is allowed that the builder himself orders music, i.e. he orders supervision of his work, has led to the buyer not being able to be sure when buying the building that the project will match the project or that the building's construction work has been carried out in a high-quality manner. There should be an obligation that all important stages of work are documented and photographed so that the quality of work can be clearly demonstrated. This request would be nothing new if we looked around the European Union. According to the draft law under discussion, the Technical Surveillance Authority will in future check the conformity of the energy performance label for buildings on a random basis. The existence of such an obligation is not a bad thing, it is very good. However, there is no certainty that the Technical Surveillance Authority is competent enough to check the compliance of a modern house. There should be a considerable number of good construction experts, who possess methods of calculation, technical solutions for constructions and technical equipment used in buildings. Unfortunately, when assessing the current structure of the Technical Supervisory Authority, there is doubt that they will be able to play a very important role on them. Unfortunately, the minister who answered my question did not foresee the need for additional resources either. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U192	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U193	In addition to later effective control, our building code should ensure, in particular, that buildings are built in accordance with new standards and of good quality from the outset. We all know that yes, we can go to court later, but we also know how costly and time-consuming the subsequent correction is. The role of the Building Board would be, inter alia, to ensure that architects and engineers receive modern training courses that learn about the principles and standard solutions of building an energy efficient building, and to train workers, as high-quality construction is crucial for energy efficient buildings. The country should set annual targets on how many buildings need to be made more energy-efficient and exactly how this is to be achieved. We know that unfortunately, the current system, where the state guarantees a loan and covers up to 30% of the investment, is not working. However, the biggest issue with this regulation is the fact that our energy efficiency will be assessed by means of an arbitrary energy efficiency ratio that has nothing to do with the actual energy performance of the building. How so? The point is that, according to the draft law, the electricity costs of the household are also taken into account in the calculation of energy efficiency, as well as the weighting factor of the energy carrier from 1,5 to 2,0 is increased by the regulation. This means that the consumption of electricity for all electricity-powered appliances must be multiplied by two. However, the amount of electricity I consume for domestic appliances, luminaires and water heater, for example, does not indicate the energy efficiency of the building. In order to meet future building energy efficiency standards, household electricity consumption needs to be limited. You may have a perfectly insulated house, but you still don't meet the energy efficiency standard. This is especially true when there are many residents in the house and many domestic appliances, water heating and lighting are used. A situation has been created where smaller and more economic houses are hit because the costs are divided by the square meters of the heated surface, i.e. the less the surface, the greater the number of energy efficiency will come and the more heat and savings will have to be. It's nonsense! In conclusion, it seems that the objective can be achieved, we can inform Brussels: it has been done! In the old days, the building was built from the foundation; now it is modern times and starts from the roof or from the attic-chain. So let's try to keep up with the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U194	Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. I would now like to ask my colleague, Toomas Tõniste, as a representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the IRL Group, I would like to say that we support the adoption of this draft. The energy efficiency issues of buildings that are being dealt with in the draft under discussion are more relevant in Estonia than on average in Europe. On the one hand, it is due to cold winters and long heating periods, on the other hand, to the fact that our homes, as well as many industrial buildings and public buildings, are built at a time when energy saving was not given the same attention as today. The introduction of minimum energy efficiency requirements and the regulation of energy labelling are important because it is in no way economically possible to replace the entire housing fund or all industrial buildings in the short term. The energy efficiency of buildings will be gradually improved and therefore there must be a set of energy efficiency requirements for new buildings. On the other hand, it is, of course, necessary and practical in many cases to improve the thermal insulation of existing houses by renovating them to a greater or lesser extent. However, in terms of consumption volumes, the majority of households consume most of the energy consumed in Estonia, whose energy consumption, for example, amounted to 42% of the energy consumed in Estonia in 2008. The following sectors of energy intensity were industry and transport, which consume as much energy as households combined. In time, people's awareness of energy efficiency issues has increased, and people are sure to look at the energy label of the building and the amount of heating costs when buying a new home. I'd like to bring a parallel with the cars here. If there were ever big cars in fashion and a lot of fuel, now people are starting to appreciate the economy. The state has offered various financial instruments through KredEx to support the renovation of apartment buildings. They are also used, although it is not always easy, because the capital renovation of an apartment building requires a considerable degree of consensus and willingness of cooperative members to do so, all the more so as, in the case of major renovations, not only self-financing and support but also borrowing. Against this background, it is to be welcomed that the amendment to the emission allowance agreement concluded at the end of February between Estonia and Luxembourg will allow EUR 4 million to be channelled towards renovation of small houses. The Minister for Economic Affairs sent the regulation governing the terms of this support to coordination on 23 February. I hope that the use of this support will be active, because renovation in private homes mostly depends on the decision of one person or family, and difficulties in reaching an agreement with others cannot be an obstacle. It is also worth noting that, in addition to the renovation of private houses, support can also be applied for small renewable energy solutions, such as solar collectors for the production of heat energy and the use of wind generators or photovoltaic panels for the production of electricity. I wish everyone a sustainable response and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-07_U196	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 156 amendments at 12 noon on 21 March. First reading of bill 156 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.07 p.m.
