ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 45 members of the Riigikogu, I hand over a written request for a mistrust to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. In many areas of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the dissidents have focused on two scandals and problems that directly affect the availability and price of electricity to Estonian consumers in the near and long term. In the near future, due to the opening up of the electricity market, this is expected to be an increase in prices, which is certainly inevitable in some respects, but which, for particularly sensitive social groups, the European Union both allows and recommends taking measures that our government has failed to take. Instead, people at risk of falling into energy poverty are advised to apply to the state for social assistance in the form of income support. The second and long-term factor affecting the energy market, energy availability and the price of electricity is the minister's sole decision to push through nearly a billion chronic investments in the construction of new oil shale boilers in Narva in a way that, in the opinion of both the National Audit Office and the opposition of the parliament, leaves many questions about its economic viability unanswered and which, according to the confidential memos of the government, may not be in accordance with several laws in force in the Republic of Estonia. In addition, the competition has been won by a company which, judging from publicly available data, has been investigated in several countries, including several Member States of the European Union, in relation to the suspicion of corruption and money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board, I have accepted the request of 45 members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, and I will immediately forward it to the Government of the Republic. I have forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U4	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law supplementing Article 90 of the Law on Electronic Communications initiated by the Economic Commission. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. I shall put to the final vote the draft law amending § 90 of the Law on Electronic Communications, which was initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs, 243. Please vote! (meeting of 59 members of the Riigikogu) by 18 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U5	The first reading of the draft law amending § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. I would like to ask Mailis Reps, member of the Riigikogu, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft amendment of § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act 240. It is proposed that § 82 (3) of the Act be supplemented as follows (I remind you of what is in the bill): 'The costs of the municipal school are covered by the school manager. On the basis of the number of pupils in municipal schools, each year, in accordance with the State Budget Act, a grant is awarded from the state budget to municipalities and cities to cover the remuneration of municipal school teachers, directors and heads of study and support specialists referred to in § 37 (2) of this Act, as well as the costs of further training, investment and the educational resources referred to in § 20 (1) of this Act. ' Why is there a question of support specialists? It can be said that during the entire process of processing the basic school and upper secondary school law, which we dealt with in the Riigikogu for more than a few years, it was about the recognition of each child's distinctiveness, the support of each child, it is about special educational needs, the need for an individual approach, or a child who even needs support to study, who is a disabled child in the old sense. As a result of the long debate, the chapter on teaching children with special needs became quite detailed. We received a long list of obligations in the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, how school holders, local authorities, private school holders in private schools and the state in public schools, as well as teachers and parents, for example, should notice the special nature of each child and support him in education. It did not take very long for an agreement between local authorities and the state to be concluded (this is the final protocol of the negotiations between the Government Commission and the Municipal Associations delegation). In several years, most recently in 2012, it was agreed in the chapter on education and youth work that support professionals could be supported by the education budget. How is that possible? The Government of the Republic determines the minimum rates of pay for teachers each year. But the state allocates money in the field of education not only for the salaries of teachers, directors and teachers, but also for teaching tools and further training for teachers. In addition, the education sector has always been given a certain amount of money in different years, the percentage here has been quite high, with a figure of 20% to 25%, which is intended to cover other educational costs for local authorities. This money may be necessary when the number of children is exponentially reduced or the number of pupils changes in the middle of the year, but it may also be necessary to hire logopaedes, school psychologists, social pedagogues, special educators and, sometimes, assistant teachers. We have quite a number of students who, without support, are unable to complete an education or at least unable to acquire it in a larger class of ordinary municipal schools. Even in small classes, which are classes with 4 to 7 students, support is often needed to allow one or the other child with special educational needs to study and study normally. What was our aim throughout the long proceedings of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the Riigikogu, both in the Committee on Culture and in the Chamber? The aim was that local authorities, in cooperation with the state (of course, not the only instrument of the state budget), would be able to find and motivate the school's support specialists as much as possible. Unfortunately, as a result of the formation of a new government and in the light of a teacher's strike, a new approach was unexpectedly developed for teachers in search of salaries. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Research, interpreted the polite wording of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act that educational resources can also be used for support professionals, in such a way that local authorities abuse teachers' salaries and the money used for support specialists must be directed to teachers. In the light of the quite large disputes about the increase in the pay of teachers next year, it is important that the Riigikogu takes the position on how to finance the teaching of children with special needs in the future: whether it remains to settle the agreement between the local government and the state, so that part of it comes from the state, part from the local government, it is only the question of the income base of the local government, or we will specify which support specialists will receive funding from the state budget, such as logos or school psychologists, and the financing of others, such as social pedagogues or special pedagogues, remains the responsibility of the local government. In any case, the negotiations between local authorities and the government union also show that such clarification at law level is necessary. In addition, further clarification is needed for the following reason: Within the framework of next year's budget and the increase in teachers' salaries, we will look at the debate on finding a second share of 5% extra money, 6% of the amount needed to raise wages. It is clear from the statements made by local government leaders, parish elders and mayors that what exactly the rest of the salary increase comes from is interpreted very differently. Several schools are concerned that their very hard-to-get logo beets, which are very much needed at school and attracted to them from the labour market, may be excluded from school again because of this change. What the decisions of the Committee on Culture say about this is said by the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture, but I am saying that it is quite clear that this is not the last time we are discussing the issue of support specialists in this Chamber, because the basic school and upper secondary school law has promised to be brought back into this Chamber. The draft law amending the basic school and upper secondary school law has been circulating in the coordination round for a long time, where the subject of special needs is quite clearly at issue. As this has shown in a very short time, local authorities cannot ensure such an ambitious and positive approach, without additional resources, as we have established in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and clarification of commitments is certainly necessary. At this point, I will be waiting for the next debate, because there will certainly be further clarifications here. Is it too early to say today that the wording of § 82 that we have proposed is the best. We will certainly discuss this further in the Committee on Culture and see how best to clarify it by law. But the school needs special pedagogies, social pedagogies, logo pedals and school psychologists. The number of children with special needs has increased; we need to support them. This is particularly important given that a new development plan for children with special needs is currently being developed in the Ministry of Education and Research, which provides for so-called HEV1 students, i.e. children with weaker special needs to be brought to mainstream schools. It is absolutely impossible if we do not ensure at the same time that there is professional support from support professionals, aimed at children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U7	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. Before we go to the questions, I say that this message has just arrived at the Riigikogu's board: 'The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the request made by 45 members of the Riigikogu to 'express confidence in the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications' in today's session. ' I have added a third item to today's agenda, which is the debate on the disclosure of censure to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Now let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U8	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good colleague! As a person who is relatively distant from education issues, it has always been incomprehensible to me that our country, as well as the municipalities, treat specialized education and logopaedics as if they were not necessary. That's what I'm left with. Their work is much harder than the so-called ordinary teacher's. Why do we treat them like that? Nobody wants to pay them. In Soviet times, I remember, they were paid 25% more than the other educators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U9	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, when we look at the dispute over support specialists, we see that it has been quite long-term. Teachers dealing with children with special needs have indeed had a higher salary, with special needs pedagogues paying 25 to 30% higher, at the minimum level. If you look at teachers working in public schools, we can see that at least a few years ago there was also the possibility of paying a significantly higher salary than the minimum rate. Times have been different and cuts have been quite painful, so today I do not dare to say that this is indeed the case today. But it is clear that children with special needs are now more than ever in school. There are many reasons. Scientists have not been able to argue to the end whether it is a change in society, a change in diet or a better diagnosis. Surely there has also been a change in our education system, that we understand the special needs of children differently, that we assess the needs differently. We're trying to spot more children who need support. This is also demonstrated by the reduction in early school leaving. In many schools it has been realised that this so-called ordinary three-way boy can, if he gets very good support, if the support specialists work with him and his speciality are understood, reach the school very quickly and soon he may not be a bad guy, but may be a super-performing student. It has also been understood that on certain occasions the student may have a special need in one subject, but in another he may have brilliant results. It's like we've opened more eyes. Why aren't we evaluating support professionals now? It's stuck in a dispute between the local government and the state. Unfortunately, life has shown that, if the state does not impose precise minimum rates and requirements, there are very few municipalities, as in the case of kindergarten teachers, where these educators receive a low but still considerable equivalent remuneration for teachers. In general, these specialists receive less than equivalent pay from teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U10	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Mailis, I have also asked the Minister of Education for this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If the government has such a trend that it eliminates schools where children with special needs study and directs these children to regular schools, then it should be left with the funding for the maintenance of these schools. Can you tell me anything reasonable about how these finances are located in the state budget? Do they go with their children to schools where support teachers are paid a salary, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U12	Thank you, good questioner! It's a little early to answer that. I can only rely today on one meeting of the Committee on Culture, where we were introduced within about an hour to a possible future development plan for students with special needs. There were two figures. According to the EHIS, there are currently some 24000 children who need additional support due to special educational needs. The Minister has realized that this figure is too high. It was noted that some 6,000 children with a real special need remain within the meaning of the new scheme. If I was wrong about the numbers, I'm sorry! That was what was brought out in the Committee on Culture. What's the reason? They want to divide children with special needs into two. Children who are currently studying under a simplified curriculum or who, despite their disability, can study in mainstream schools (for example, they have physical disabilities and have no reason to study in schools for children with special needs) will be directed to mainstream schools. It was unclear how these children's learning could be financed. The current approach is rather that it is the responsibility of the local government, but it must be said that it remained unclear. In the case of state schools, it was more about real estate and construction, less about the substance. The desire to build new schools for children with special needs from European Union resources was clearly sounded; current schools, according to the Ministry, are not suitable. The substantive debate was sidelined, but an hour was not enough. This is an issue that should be discussed further with the Minister, because the simple approach that we are directing children with special needs without convincing support from a regular school is certainly not working.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U13	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. I call Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaker's Board, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, As the previous speaker gave an adequate overview of the discussions that took place in the Committee on Culture, I will only have a factual side to add here. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft on 240 Monday, 8 October and decided by consensus on all the following issues: to send the draft to the plenary on 18 October; to propose that the first reading be closed; and to set the deadline of 3 December 2012 for the submission of amendments. The only thing I can add to the previous speaker is that, along with amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, these issues will certainly be discussed further in the Committee on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U15	Thank you very much, Mr Liisa-Ly Pakosta. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 240 amendments on 3 December 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 240 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare a 15-minute break so that the members of the Riigikogu can examine the content of the requirement to express censure. The materials are on the shelves at the back of the hall. We'll proceed at 10:43.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U16	Dear Riigikogu! Break taken by the manager is over. We will begin work on the next item, which is the debate on the disclosure of censure to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. I will present to you the procedure for discussing the requirement to express censure to the Minister, as defined in § 133 and 134 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. According to the Minister's wishes, we will first listen to his speech, which will last up to eight minutes. The following questions to the speaker: Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. Then there will be negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups will get the floor, and the first to speak will be the representative of the group whose members have initiated the publication of distrust, i.e. the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, next to the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group. The final vote will then take place. The Minister has been distrusted if the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of the publication of censure. Let's get started. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U17	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! 45 members of the Riigikogu have asked me to express my distrust. Its content has for more than a week now been publicly discussed through the press. The main question raised is whether and why Estonia needs an oil shale power plant. Before deciding to build it, this issue was discussed and considered for years. On 15 June 2009, the Riigikogu approved the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy, which provides for the construction of not one but two new oil shale blocks by 2015, and for this purpose state aid must be granted. This decision was consensual, 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, including those groups who are now trying to distrust me. There were no votes against. The Riigikogu was just as consensual when, on 28 January 2010, it voted in favour of the draft law that provided support for the oil shale power plant. It should be said that the granting of State aid to the plant's investment was finally resolved in a different way than the law adopted by the Riigikogu provided for. According to the law, the investment carried out by this plant would have received financial support from the remuneration collected from consumers. However, thanks to the authorisation granted by the European Commission, the investment is supported by the money from the carbon quota and it is not necessary to ask consumers for money to do so. As was clear at the time of these decisions, it is clear today that new power generation capacities are needed to ensure Estonia's energy security, and Estonia must retain the ability to produce electricity itself to meet its own needs. Depending on electricity imported from Russia or elsewhere is too risky in a situation where many of our neighbours are unable to cover their own electricity needs. The possibilities of building the right station were long and comprehensively compared. No one was able to offer a better choice than the establishment of our indigenous mineral oil shale plant, even in terms of expected profitability. Compared to existing oil shale power plants, the Auvere power plant is more environmentally friendly, generates less air emissions and is much more efficient. The plant can use oil shale as a fuel and up to 50% biofuels and peat. This leads to the plant's volume of carbon dioxide emissions at the level of modern gas power plants, which mitigates the risk of CO2 quota prices. The use of local fuel in turn mitigates the risk of fuel prices. From the point of view of security of supply, it is important that this capacity is managed. This station can produce electricity just when it is needed. As regards whether Eesti Energia organised the construction of the station legally, there is no reason to doubt it at this point. The procurement of the construction of the power plant was prepared for years; it was announced in 2009. Of course, a number of technical and legal issues need to be resolved in this complex negotiation process. Eesti Energia organised the procurement and concluded the contract and is responsible for its legality. This procurement has not been challenged by anyone and there is no reason to claim that it is illegal. Today, too, the company has confirmed this once again. It is not true that those who have mistrusted the arguments about the lack of economic return. According to current cost-benefit calculations and given that the European Commission has accepted investment support, this is a very competitive station. In addition, institutional creditors have assessed the prospects of the Estonian Energy Investment Programme very well. The issue of a bond in spring was well overstated with a relatively favourable interest rate. But let us ask: What is the alternative? Yesterday, Eesti Päevaleht published a distrustful, Mr. Mikser's energy vision. The socialist vision (which includes wind power and also co-generation plants and Russian gas for heat resources) suggests that the cost of this investment would be EUR 1.46 billion in order to achieve the same generation capacity (300 megawatts) as the new oil shale plant. We compare this gap with the EUR 640 million needed to build a 300 megawatt biofuel and oil shale plant with more than twice the difference. If you look at the second option, Russian gas, solar energy and, as far as possible, cogeneration plants, the cost would be EUR 4 billion. Now the complaints that the opening-up of the electricity market is not well prepared and that consumers are not sufficiently informed about it. While 64% of Estonians knew the opening of the electricity market in spring, 79% already knew the opening of the electricity market in summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U18	Mr. Secretary, would you like three minutes of extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U19	Please, if it's possible! According to the latest study, awareness of the opening up of the electricity market has increased to 92%. In doing so, the state will continue to inform the public in November and December: all consumers will receive a second publication from the state on market opening, there will be an extensive advertising campaign, special publications will be published between newspapers. Already in the summer, the information phone and website are open. The main emphasis of the information campaign on the time when no market participant was yet prepared to enter into contracts with consumers would have been impractical. Unlike the significant changes that have taken place in recent years, such as the digital switch-over or the introduction of the euro, consumers do not necessarily need to make decisions quickly. Electricity supply to all consumers is guaranteed under the terms of the Electricity Market Act, even if they do not enter into a contract with any electricity seller. As regards possible steps by the government to reduce the final electricity price components, I can inform you that the government will shortly submit a draft on the renewable energy charge. We have reached a rather complex agreement with renewable energy producers that have already made investments. If this draft becomes a law, the impact on consumers will be as follows. If the law enters into force before 1 January 2013, the renewable energy fee component will decrease by 20%. If we calculate the projected renewable energy charge in the final energy price up to 2020, we will see that the consumer gain compared to the current law is EUR 350 million. I think these are important steps to better protect consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U20	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, any questions for the Minister? Starts with my colleague Enn Frontland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U21	Thank you very much. Good minister! One of the motives and reasons for the appeal was undoubtedly the material of the National Audit Office and also the "Spectator" of the programme. The credibility of both the National Audit Office and its programme in Estonian society is very high. When we met in our group yesterday, you were pretty critical of this TV show. I'm not gonna quote you, but that's the point of your answer. Didn't "The Spectator" understand things when he presented his very sharp material? Do you think they presented it deliberately and maliciously, or was there a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U22	Thank you. I do not wish to take on the role of media critic, but it was quite clear from the perspective of this whole programme that this was an extremely large disinformation, single extracts from protocols torn out of context. Individual sentences were also made from interviews, such as the interview of the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia, Mr Liive. Actually, the interview with Mr. Sand lasted half an hour. I'm not criticizing TV programmers, but I'm sure that's a lot of disinformation about television viewers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U23	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U24	Thank you. Dear Minister, You were talking about investments in electricity generation capacity, mentioning that, with alternative options, these investments would amount to EUR 1.5 billion and EUR 4 billion. But what would the cost of electricity production be in alternative options compared to production in Auvere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U25	Thank you. If the main option was to take the plan of sots to transfer Estonia to solar energy, the unit price would be about four times higher than the current exchange price. If the main focus were on offshore wind farms, the price would be two and a half times higher than the current stock exchange price.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U26	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your previous reply, you briefly touched on the subject of renewable energy, but I will ask you a little bit more. Energy security is extremely important to the Estonian state. We are talking a lot about oil shale energy here today. I'm coming back to renewable energy. How much specifically have you and your ministry discussed the use of renewable energy in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U28	We have a renewable energy action plan up to 2020, which has been developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, of course, coordinated with all parties and other ministries. The government has confirmed that. This concerns not only the generation of electricity, but also the use of renewable fuel in transport. We are now in the process of launching a longer-term strategy for the development of the energy economy until 2030. This issue certainly needs to be addressed there. I think that, in the second half of this decade, discussions will begin at European Union level and it will become clear what the perspective for renewable energy after 2020 will be. Given the established competitive position, it is clear to everyone that we need to reach a situation where energy investments can be made in Europe, including Estonia, without relying on additional subsidies. This is the target we have to reach after 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U29	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U30	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In yesterday's public service broadcast, you said that Alstom's offer may initially not have met the public procurement conditions in all respects, but it was brought into line with all the requirements in the course of further negotiations. How do you unthink this process for us, you as minister, lawyer and former Auditor General? Which non-compliant tenders should then be left in the process and brought into line with the requirements in the course of further negotiations and which non-compliant tenders need to be withdrawn from the list?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U31	When it comes to negotiating a tender, I think that a distinction must be made between significant and insignificant. In fact, there are always different terms in the contract, the effects of which apply not only at the time of construction but also during the guarantee period. Then there's bound to be some questions to be discussed. In addition, the contracting authority, in this case the company, is likely to be interested in negotiating some questions. It can be noted that negotiations on this procurement resulted in a decrease in the initially offered price of almost EUR 40 million. Even now, if, according to the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy approved by the Riigikogu, there is an option for the construction of another 300-megawatt power plant, it is in our interest, or in the interest of the company, to extend this option if necessary. However, this requires certain negotiations. There are always issues that can actually be resolved in negotiations with such a procurement. The law also allows this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U32	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U33	Thank you. Good minister! I think that the increase in electricity prices next year will be a very severe blow for the people of Estonia. That crazy uprising was foreshadowed. Why has the government done nothing to ease the rise in electricity prices? For example, other electricity price components could have been changed. It seems to me that when it comes to the state budget, the state always answers that there is money or there is no money. But when we talk about people's wallets, why do we not care if people are able to bear these expenses or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U34	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! My understanding and views are the result of the audit of the National Audit Office. The audit of the National Audit Office is highly critical of the construction of new oil shale plants. The National Audit Office also drew attention to certain aspects before concluding the contract. I ask: Mr Minister, do you even believe in the Estonian National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U36	Thank you. I believe in the audits of the National Audit Office of Estonia, but what you are referring to is, by the way, the overview of the National Audit Office. As a wise person, I hope you know the difference between an audit based on very clear methodological requirements that derive certain views and an overview. It is particularly important that any person who takes a position on the profitability of one or the other investment must be able to present his/her independent cost-benefit accounts or to criticise the components of the cost-benefit accounts on the basis of which the decision has been taken by the decision-makers. When it is simply said that it is economically useful or not, it cannot be considered to be very credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U37	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have raised the question, both in this Chamber and outside the Riigikogu, repeatedly for years, what will happen if the price of electricity rises sharply in 2013. The government, both you and the Prime Minister, has so far effectively denied the price increase. I was pleased to hear today that we have finally begun to tackle the issue in substance. You told Deniss Borodichi that you had five measures to help those who might be in trouble. Are social groups in trouble identified, and what are the five concrete measures in which the government wants to mitigate the increase in electricity prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U39	Thank you. I hope that my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, has already answered this question on Monday. I hope you're aware of that. We were talking about income support. Look at the state budget next year. We do not, for nothing, raise unemployment benefits from around EUR 60 to EUR 140 per month, nor do we, for nothing, consider it necessary to wide-rangingly increase the remuneration of those who receive direct or indirect salaries from the state budget, nor do we stand for this reason for pensions to rise by at least 5%, more than the impact of inflation, etc. These are the measures. In addition to the reduction of the renewable energy charge I mentioned. The perception in your question that there is some sort of dictator on the wire, who is giving you political electricity, shows that this is the wrong question for the audience. There's no government like that in power right now. Yes, we consider opening up the electricity market to be very useful for the Estonian consumer in the long term. We believe that, if we are able to implement a 'transparent, open market' in many other sectors, in the long term we will get the best price from the point of view of the consumer. I am absolutely convinced of that. The transition may be difficult, it may be linked to fears and uncertainty, but I think we can overcome them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U40	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The Electricity Market Act specifically states that, where the power supply in the energy system is smaller than necessary, the Competition Authority will organise a competition to meet demand for new generation equipment. Instead of offering various solutions to ensure security of supply, you imposed an unreasonable investment on Eesti Energia to build an oil shale power plant. Why didn't the law or the competition for the construction of new production equipment have been implemented so that different production technologies and fuels could compete on an equal footing with oil shale and Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U41	I guess you didn't quote the right lawyer. This law is intended for this purpose if no one invests in production capacity. At present, Eesti Energia must be able to manage as a company in the opening or already open Nordic and Baltic electricity markets. Any company can invest in Estonia and make a power plant here, either a coal station or a nuclear plant. The solar panels can be placed here as much as it takes. No one is stopping this, neither the network code nor the electricity market law. I don't care if he does it now. There is no need for government prayer or government tribute. But you see, nobody invests.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U42	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I am asking about families and individuals who, after the increase in electricity prices, are receiving income support. The pension rises in the fourth month of the year, or April. How and for how long can a single person cope with 76 euros, buying medicines and food? How can a family of three, such as a mother or father, handle EUR 199 when they have to send them to school and pay their food costs? How long do you think this subsistence limit will last if it is not raised in 2013, as it seems?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U44	Thank you. That's a completely different question. Raising the income limit, I think, is out of the scope of this debate. What is the reasonable limit of living? Of course, as a country, we must be able to raise it on the basis of real needs. I think that this is the position that we all take and this needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U45	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U46	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! You called one of our social democrats a broken phonograph. I ask: is Conservative Juhan Parts really a statesman in the field of energy whose behaviour is in the interests of the Estonian people and is entirely statesmanly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U47	Yeah, I think so. But I didn't say 'a broken phonograph' for any person. You misinterpreted me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U48	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U49	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm getting out of the electricity issue and I'm asking about the state's investments. The signatories to the statement of confidence complain that the materials were submitted too late to the meeting of the cabinet where the investments of Eesti Energia were discussed. Five years ago, the materials were also submitted to the debate on the privatisation of Estonian Railways just before the meeting. But I have a question for you. You, or at least your party, were very critical of the investment in the repurchase of Estonian Railway shares. It amounted to EUR 150 million in its current currency. On the basis of current knowledge, how do you assess the huge investments made in Estonian Railway shares that were made five or six years ago? The question is justified because the effectiveness of Eesti Energia investments can also be assessed years later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U50	Thank you. It's hard to judge. The future will show. Much depends on how we can work together and find new opportunities for rail transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U51	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You claimed that you were not familiar with the background of the company with which a EUR 650 million contract was signed for the construction of blocks for oil shale power plants, and did not know that this company had been accused of both corruption and bribery. The former Minister of Culture Signe Kivi did not know that 8,5 million kroons of cultural capital had disappeared, yet he took political responsibility. Just as Tiit Tammsaar never knew that the grain had disappeared from the grain storage, yet he took political responsibility. In this context, do you see any guilt on your part, and are you going to do something to take political responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U53	You're referring to a TV show. I really did not know the decision of the Swiss court on Alstom, to which Mr Saar referred. I do not know whether I should take political responsibility for not knowing the judgments handed down about all companies, especially large companies, around the world. But I really didn't know the decision of the Swiss court.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U54	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U55	Thank you. The state company organises a public procurement and receives two offers. It considers that neither one offer nor the other offer fulfils the conditions. Which section of the Public Procurement Act gives the general meeting, or the minister, or the Government of the Republic, the right to reverse this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U56	Thank you. Neither the Minister nor the Government of the Republic is in fact a contracting authority under the Public Procurement Act. You know perfectly well that this so-called state-owned company, the state-owned company, operates under the Commercial Code. The minister is there for a general meeting. The general meeting is very clear, by the way, these are your fixed rights and obligations in this Chamber, as do the Government of the Republic. I repeat once again that the government did not deal with the issue of public procurement, but, at the request of the company, the government acted as a clear obligation for the owner to achieve a long-term reasonable economic return on one of the planned investments, based on the development plan approved by the highest owner, i.e. the Riigikogu. This was the issue that the Government of the Republic dealt with and on which the Minister of Economic Affairs gave a guideline as a general meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U57	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Like many others, last night I watched the Forum show and saw how upset you were when my colleague Saar showed you the contract 'Home expenses down! '. You've explained that you've been misunderstood. Can you, please, speak once again in human language how your promise to lower home expenses will be fulfilled and when will it be reflected in people's utilities accounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U59	Thank you. Good question! Look at my party's election program, where the slogan 'Home expenses are signed! 'open. Its first and most important point concerns the highest domestic cost, i.e. heating costs. At the moment, the most difficult problem with our housing fund is that heating costs are twice as high as normal. In order to reduce heating costs, we need to invest. Most of the housing funds, the apartments belong to private owners. We know that reducing heating costs is not very easy. That is why we proposed the option that the state will launch a support programme to enable such investments to be made. Hundreds of apartment buildings have already used this program. On average, heating costs have decreased by 50%. That's what "Home expenses down" means! '. Yes, this task, which I believe lies before the entire Estonian people, is difficult. In five to ten years, our housing fund must be brought to such a level that we stop wasting. If a person invests in his or her home with state support, in addition to reducing heating costs (less or more depending on the house, but more than twice the size), we will increase the value of his or her home on the real estate market. If this investment is made correctly, we will definitely improve the indoor climate of the apartments. I am absolutely convinced that this has a major impact on human health. That's what our slogan for 'Home expenses' means! '. You're trying to claim that IRL would want to behave contrary to the principles of the market economy. That's not the kind of thing we've promised. Do not write on our account what we have not promised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U60	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U61	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the delivery of Alstom in other countries. In many countries, including some European Union countries, Alstom has been convicted of a number of public procurement offences. Here reference was made to the decision of the Swiss court. Pursuant to § 38 of the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority does not award a contract to a person and withdraws from the procurement procedure the tenderer or candidate who has been sanctioned in criminal or misdemeanour proceedings, including for breach of public procurement requirements, fraud, professional, money laundering or tax offences, and whose criminal records have not been removed from the criminal record pursuant to the Penal Register Act, or the penalty is valid under the law of the country in which he resides or resides. That's my question. You said there was no breach of the law in the procurement process. Is § 38 of the Public Procurement Act not important enough if you made such a statement here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U62	I am quite convinced that this section has certainly been taken into account by the contracting authority in carrying out the procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U63	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U64	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your confidence is admirable. However, it would be an honor for you and the whole hall if you would accept from time to time that there are different views in the world than your only right opinion. Coming to my question, I'll pick up where Evgeny Ossinovski ended up. You argued last night on television that you were giving Eesti Energia guidelines for the award of the contract, that you did not know that this could be contrary to the law, or that Alstom was under investigation in several countries. Today you are trying to claim that you did not only know that a conviction has come into force in Switzerland. What's it really like? Were you inaccurate or consciously dimmed last night on the live show of Estonian Television? Can you describe this confusion of yours in more detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U65	Thank you. I didn't think I was distracted at all. But once again, as I recall, you asked one question, which contained five arguments. Of course, the correct respondent responds to the last plea. Your last plea was that Alstom has been the subject of a decision by the Swiss court. I did not know that Alstom had been the subject of such a decision. When I began to answer your question, I came to the main question, which you are also trying to make clear to the Estonian people today. You claim that the law on public procurement has been violated. I commented on the 'public procurement law' aspect of the TV programme. That is the correct statement. I think it was a good, live TV show. In my opinion, this was a very natural and human behaviour in the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U66	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U67	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'll come back for a moment to take control of home expenses. Indeed, heating costs can be reduced by renovating houses. But do you understand that if the house is renovated, the people of the house will have the cost of borrowing? Our sleeper profiles, where this problem is the biggest, are mostly occupied by people who received their apartment 40 years ago and who are no longer middle-aged but often older. They fear the cost of this loan and therefore pay for large heating bills. What solution do you propose to reduce people's credit costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U68	Thank you. That depends on the apartment building. If you look at the renovation projects carried out, it is quite common cases where heating costs have decreased as a result of renovation and the loan for renovation is in one order of magnitude. If the building management company has behaved prudently and collected money from the depreciation fund over the years, in fact, repairs can be done in such a way that no additional loan burden is created for people. Yes, it is true that for some time, depending on the length of the borrowing time, the loan burden of the housing association may increase, but the heating costs will decrease. This will certainly be more beneficial than for tens of years to continue paying large heating costs. The fact that family budget cash flow is likely to develop in this way through renovation support is a very important component of the government's implementation of this support programme, whereby we finance 15%, 25% or 35% of the cost of the renovation project, depending on the energy efficiency of the project.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U69	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Due to your somewhat evasive response to my colleague, Eiki Nestor, I would like to ask you a question for clarity. Did you give a clear guide to the Estonian Energy Council to conclude an agreement with Alstom?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U71	As far as I know, this resolution of the general meeting of shareholders is publicly available. I don't have it on me, but that guideline sounded something like this: to give my consent to this investment. I don't remember the exact wording. It is based on the section of the Commercial Code that governs such a situation. The board and management board of the company have the right to turn to shareholders for certain decisions. Without recourse to the board of directors and the board of directors, shareholders will not be able to provide such guidance unilaterally.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U72	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! My question, too, concerns this so-called guideline, which was actually given very clearly in the form of an order. It's completely public and everyone can read it. Of course, as the owner's representative, you have the right to give this so-called order to the Council. But how customary is that? In the course of your term of office, have you had to advise other councils on which contracts to conclude and which ones not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U74	It is certainly quite unusual to guide such an investment in size, as such investments are carried out very little.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U75	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The subject is very topical, and it certainly needs to be seen here for more than 10 or 15 years. Have we gone this way in supplying Estonia with electricity, that our development is in line with the European Union's climate and energy policy objectives, which require CO2 emissions to be reduced by more than 90% by 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U77	Thank you. You probably meant 2050. I would point out that, as a result of the investment support, it can be said that the European Union's Environment Directorate and the Climate Directorate have approved this investment. I believe that this is quite important approval. As I said in my opening speech, it is a much better option than in the case of power stations, both in terms of the environment and climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U78	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In Estonia, the circa is 40 million square metres of housing, of which 2% has been renovated with the support of KredEx measures in the last ten years. At the same rate, it would take more than a hundred years for existing dwellings to circle. It seems to me that we and our homes do not have time to wait as long as possible, both because of rising energy prices and the deteriorating structural condition of old homes. The KredEx programmes have so far touched only 11⁄2% of Estonian households and, unfortunately, the grant money has already been exhausted. Where do you find the courage to claim that in five to ten years a large part of Estonian dwellings will be renovated and insulated? How much money would it take to really make all this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! There are two kinds of reasons why we have mistrust: your responsibility as a so-called good minister, your energy and its potential development, and how people will manage from 1 January onwards. Of course, it is clear that we cannot change the market price, but the state can very clearly influence excise duty, VAT and renewable energy charges. You've been talking about the renewable energy fee. Why are you not prepared to take any steps to help people, to change excise duty and VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U81	Thank you. I want to believe the role model is contagious. We live in a relatively unique situation where about 97% of the housing fund belongs to private individuals. This is due to the reform of the privatisation of apartments that we did in the early 1990s. I believe that we are in a phase where we need to set an example for people. The people of Estonia are very eager, and if they see the benefits, I am absolutely sure that they are ready to invest in their home. As long as this thing becomes massive, it will certainly be reasonable for the state to keep up support programmes that work well and motivate housing associations to invest. I am not saying that the state should provide this support programme until every living apartment building has been made heat-resistant. But until then, as you said, the pace could be faster, we should, in any case, keep the subject up, inform and support people. We intend to continue with this. I said that five to ten years is the time when the country should be prepared to offer these support programmes. Then we reach a level where people are already making these investments themselves, because they are very useful to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U82	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. In relation to Alstom's activities, money laundering and bribery are investigated in Switzerland, Great Britain, the USA, France and Latvia. Can you assure your heart that there will be no such thing in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U84	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U85	Please, my colleague Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable Minister! How do you explain the paradox that the mistrusters here have repeatedly turned to you as a good minister? Could it have a very good desire for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U87	History will answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U88	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U89	Thank you, Madam President. More good minister! You have argued that you did not know Alstom's previous background in Europe. However, I must disappoint you that this does not relieve you of your responsibility because, according to Article 39 of the Public Procurement Act, it is the responsibility of the contracting authority to check the background of the participant. Are you saying that this requirement of the law was not complied with in the conduct of the procurement and, if not, who must then be held accountable, is it you or the management of Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U90	Thank you. I think I've already answered that question. You are, as far as I know, a lawyer, and you should know that according to the Public Procurement Act, I am not a contracting authority in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U91	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U92	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the price of electricity. You've been part of the government most of the time in this century, and maybe you can remind me of one thing. Do I remember correctly that in 2007, when the Riigikogu passed a law on electricity excise, its passionate spokesman was the then Minister of Finance, the Social Democrat Ivari Padar?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U93	Yeah, it was. But I'd like to protect Ivar Padari, if you'll let me. I believe that it is worth the example that we are able to keep our promises properly in this Europe. Ivar Padar was a man of his word. The commitment that the Estonian Riigikogu had made at the time of its accession to the European Union, he took on his shoulders and carried through this hall, probably despite the opposition of his party. I guess that's why they took him out. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U94	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start the negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague, Urve Palo, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U95	Thanks! Good Juhan! As your depressed member, I want to know if you really don't want to come in this second row to take my place next to Liisa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U96	I have no right to admit to my employer that I want to. Today, it is our responsibility to transport the Estonian economy and, of course, this obligation must be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U97	Please, my colleague Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U98	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You didn't answer Andres Anvelt's question. The question was that the Public Procurement Act makes it very clear that the background of the participant needs to be checked. My question is very simple: who needs to check this background, whether the general meeting is in your person or the board of Eesti Energia, and who is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U99	According to the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority is a company, a legal person. The company has different bodies: management board, board, general meeting. Their competence is precisely defined in the Commercial Code and, in the case of a State company, in the State Property Act. This procurement process is still the responsibility and responsibility of the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U100	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U101	Thank you. If we made an exception to these taxes, it would extend to everyone. Also for those who are not likely to need it from the point of view of economic survival. If we make such an exception, the revenue from the state budget will be reduced. When the revenue of the state budget decreases, the chances of raising pensions, teachers' salaries, increasing child benefits, unemployment benefits and all the other things that can be supported by people who are economically difficult to cope with will be reduced. That's the reason. It is more effective to support direct payments than to grant general exemptions from indirect taxes. It's been proven a hundred times in finance and tax theory.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U102	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Should it appear that the law on public procurement has been infringed, who should resign? Sandor Liive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U104	If this becomes apparent, it depends on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U105	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U106	Minister, thank you very much. Two thirds of the electricity bill has been affected by political decisions. You mentioned that you intend to submit a draft on renewable energy remuneration to the Riigikogu. The Postimees newspaper has analysed this draft and said that, apart from Eesti Energia, renewable energy subsidies for all other renewable energy producers will remain as high for the forecast open market stock exchange price as they are today. You have opposed the reduction of the European minimum level of electricity excise duty. However, my calculations show that if electricity excises were reduced, household gains would be three times higher than if you offered a reduction in the renewable energy fee. How much will one household gain from reducing the renewable energy fee next year? My calculations say that winning per household per year is five euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U107	Thank you. This depends on how much electricity the household consumes. If a household consumes a great deal of electricity, then the renewable energy fee will also have to be paid relatively much if it consumes very little, then this fee will also have to be paid very little. This depends directly on electricity consumption. But I will take this opportunity to correct a few of the statements made in the introduction to your question. You said that two thirds of the price of electricity depends on political decisions. No, it doesn't. I wouldn't want to see a country where online services are politically organised. The network service is a very important economic activity that is regulated, by the way, by the very thorough rules that you have established here. These principles lead to the development of a distribution network as well as a core network. It does not depend on political decisions in this respect. Unless, of course, you want to pursue such a policy to nationalise these companies and form a separate Ministry of Networks, which will support them from the state budget money. I don't think that's a sensible plan. Secondly, as regards the renewable energy charge, you argued that existing investors seem to lose nothing. I don't agree with that at all. In my opinion, it was worth agreeing with renewable energy investors because they were prepared to make a very fundamental, far-reaching change: to decouple renewable energy support from the so-called absolute number written in the law and to link this support to the market price. Let's look at the market price. If it is more than EUR 39 per megawatt-hour, it will actually start reducing the support for renewable energy for these companies. Investors took into account the state's wish, they gave up, if you want to use that term, too much profit. In fact, it will also provide a very good buffer for consumers to lower the price of renewable energy if the price of electricity on the stock exchange rises by more than EUR 40 per megawatt-hour. I hope you understand my reasoning. Let's look at last year's average stock exchange price for electricity consumers who were already on the open market. That was about 42 euros a megawatt-hour. In other words, if the same average price is next year, they will give up the real renewable energy charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U108	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In answer to Kadri Samson's question, you started by saying that the increase in energy prices to households depends on how much energy they consume. Is it possible to read your message to the people that could sum up your actions as a minister so that people should consume less energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U110	No, absolutely not. I think people should consume energy sparingly. You don't have to leave anything that's necessary, but I don't think it's worth wasting energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U111	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Let me ask a bit of an informational question, which still relates very much to the subject we are discussing today. Why have so many people told us here, and why has it been tried to say that in our neighbouring country, Finland, electricity is at the same price and sometimes much cheaper than in the Republic of Estonia? Who or what's "guilty" about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U113	Thank you. I dare to doubt that statement. If we compare average prices on the Nordic power exchange in Finland and Estonia, average exchange prices in Finland are somewhat higher. There may be periods when there may be quite large price differences in different regions. This is what we will all learn as consumers. Regional prices also interact, but it is never worth looking at stock market prices in a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U114	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Apparently, you'll leave this hall in a few hours as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and continue your work. But given everything that has happened, and taking into account what is happening here in this Chamber, please tell me if there has been anything instructive for you here. If so, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U116	Good question! When this thing is over, I'm gonna take stock of it, and I'm ready to give you a separate answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U117	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats mistrust the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, because he has lost confidence to continue his post. For a number of reasons. First. The former Auditor General does not hold much to the rule of law and thinks that the rule of law is not rex est lex, sed lex est rex (not the king is the law, but the law is the king) does not apply to him. The Social Democrats don't think so. We are convinced that the Republic of Estonia is the rule of law and that the same laws apply to everyone here. Under the rule of law, the Minister, representing the general meeting, does not have the right to give illegal orders and to put pressure on the company's board of directors or management. The Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, had to be aware that the contract concluded with Alstom for the construction of the oil shale power plant block was in breach of both the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the Penal Code, including the provisions of § 38 of the Public Procurement Act. Despite this, the Minister pressured Eesti Energia to conclude an agreement with Alstom of EUR 650 million. Second. The decision will result in the construction of the first block of oil shale power plant with a capacity of 300 MW, where the cost price of electricity produced is not competitive on the free market, as the production of oil shale electricity is highly polluting to the environment. In order to be competitive in the open electricity market, the installed power plants must emit as little carbon and pollutants as possible. Thus, the need to obtain an ever higher CO2 quota to cover future production of oil shale electricity will result in increasing costs, which will also be reflected in the price of electricity. We know that the European Commission is putting pressure on the prices of CO2 quotas to quadruple. For the Estonian consumer, this means, in a simplified way, that although oil shale electricity will not be competitive in the future market, we will still have to pay for the EUR 1 billion investment spent on the construction of two oil shale blocks and its subsequent depreciation and maintenance costs. This is despite the fact that plants do not work and electricity is purchased elsewhere. The Social Democrats have repeatedly pointed out to the Minister for Economic Affairs that oil shale electricity will not be competitive in the future due to the tough climate policy of the European Union. This has also been acknowledged by the management of Eesti Energia and even by many leading politicians of coalition parties. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U118	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U119	Yet the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, has decided to play Russian roulette, giving a huge investment a green path, in the hope that maybe it will succeed. There's no way to call it statesmanship. Decisions made in haste and without thought and ignoring reality cost the people of Estonia dearly. The Minister for Economic Affairs has assumed a responsibility he cannot bear. It is unlikely that the Minister will be able to pay back the sums spent in vain to the Treasury in years' time, which is EUR 650 million, or EEK 10 billion. The question arises as to why the Minister for Economic Affairs, who constantly talks about the need to cut and save, is willing to spread the wind for nearly EUR 1 billion. Economically harmful decisions are justified by the need to achieve energy security. At the same time, the cheaper and more economically sustainable ways of achieving the same goal and the fact that the huge investment is close to the Russian border are ignored. Three. The Minister for Economic Affairs has done nothing to help alleviate the more than 20% increase in electricity prices in the new year. This is despite the fact that he led his party's campaign under the slogan 'Home expenses down' as a minister only a year and a half ago! '. Yet, the country has specific levers to control the rise in electricity prices. Unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs has had no desire to do anything about it and no concrete initiatives to protect consumers have come. We cannot talk about protecting consumers when electricity bills decrease by 1%, because the renewable energy fee will slightly decrease, or when 1% of Estonian residents have been helped by KredEx's instruments over the last ten years to heat up their homes, at most 2% of Estonian residents. It will take more than a hundred years for the entire housing fund to be ringed up if it continues at the same rate. Consequently, the minister deliberately lied when he made such a promise a year and a half ago. In the eyes of the Socialists, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, has lost confidence as Minister of Economic Affairs for pushing through a transaction that is harmful and law-avoiding to the state and for not doing so in order to mitigate the rise in electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U120	Thank you! Mr Central Party Group, would you like to make an appearance? Please! I told you that representatives of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Centre Party Group could first appear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U121	Mrs Ergma, thank you for the opportunity to present today. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! There are not many people who would not remember the slogan of the past elections of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which promised to bring home expenses down. Many of us were even sent home with a contract with a voter, where the same promise was signed. In fact, the highest price increases have been in the hands of the Minister of the IRL. The new price list of Eesti Energia promises to predict that the increase in electricity prices will be great. When the consumer joins the six-month fixed-price contract of Eesti Energia, his basic electricity tariff will rise from the current 3.15 euro cent to 4.99 euro cent. This represents an increase of 58% in the basic tariff. In addition, the Competition Authority has allowed Elering to raise network charges by 13.3%. All of this means at least a fifth higher electricity bill for the people of Estonia in the new year. It cannot be forgotten that smaller companies will also buy electricity from the open market, which so far also received electricity from the closed market. Their products are also becoming more expensive, and this is reflected in the overall price increase. Eesti Pank has also warned us about this danger, saying that if there is nothing to do about the increase in electricity prices in Estonia, our economic environment will deteriorate. If the Minister of Economic Affairs looks surprised and helpless in the current situation, it is an attempt to clear himself of guilt. At the same time, the benefits of price increases are increased in a sense of peace. Price increases mean an increase in the profit of Eesti Energia, and in addition, this means that more VAT will be collected as a result of the rising price. The government's view is that electricity prices will be on the electricity market next year, and they will not be able to do much. This inaction means a significant increase in electricity bill for all people in Estonia. We also agree that the price of electricity on the stock market cannot really be changed by the government, but every person's electricity bill has five components and four out of five can be regulated by the government. The government can regulate network charges, renewable energy charges, electricity excise duties, which are 4.5 times higher than the minimum rate in the European Union, and VAT. Thus, a total of two thirds of the price of electricity is controlled by the Government. Minister of Economy Juhan Parts has said that Elering's fee does not concern the government. But I would point out that, after the IRL Group sent Taavi Veskimäe from his ranks to lead Elering, it may not be advisable to say that the network service is politically manageable, but this decision led to a significant increase in network charges. When we look at Europe, we see that taxes added to electricity are very high in Estonia, which account for nearly 30% of the price of electricity. In most European countries, domestic consumers will have a share of 20%. There are also countries in the European Union where the share of taxes in electricity prices is less than 10%. Recently, the Central Party draft was voted down in the Riigikogu, which would reduce electricity excise duty by 4.5 times and give real support to the people of the coming year under the conditions of rising electricity prices. It was argued that this would have meant a cost of EUR 24 million for the budget, which would have been too burdensome for the state budget. We all know how quickly a cover has been found for much higher costs than it has been necessary. Taxes are clearly a political decision. If there is a desire to mitigate the rise in electricity prices for consumers, tax rulings can do so. At the moment, we only see the Minister's unwillingness, one could also say inaction. The members of the Central Party Group consider that the Minister for Economic Affairs has not shown a desire to mitigate the price increase caused by the opening of the electricity market at the beginning of 2013. The Ministry and the Minister are in trouble with communication. That is why we initiated the mistrust of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, because his inaction in the field of energy and in mitigating price increases affects all Estonian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U122	Thank you. I call on the speaker's colleague, Kaia Iva Isamaa, as a representative of the Group of the Union of Res Publica.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U123	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U124	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U125	Thank you. Your argument is not true. I repeat once again: the government intends to put forward a draft to reduce the renewable energy fee, both in the next year and in the seven-year perspective. I think this is a very important step. Secondly, the government considered the potential risk of coping when submitting the state budget. The additional resources for income support are projected to be.. once again, they have been estimated at about EUR 660000, which is more than EEK 10 million. I think these are very important steps. You keep repeating that the government has done nothing. I named two steps, but I can name four more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U126	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, you claimed by sending the Forum that you were unaware that Alstom had been suspected of corruption in more than 11 countries, or that the Swiss branch of the company had received a large fine in relation to bribes to decision-makers. You also claimed that you did not know that Sven Papp, legal adviser to the Estonian Energy Council, had warned that the Ministry of Finance could investigate the procurement and find there violations of both the Public Procurement Act and the Penal Code. Are you still saying you weren't aware of all this? If so, do you really think that ignorance will relieve you of your responsibility for what is going on in your administration? In this case, you can also say that you did not know what was happening in Estonian Air, you did not know what was happening at the Estonian Internet Foundation, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U128	Thank you. I answered the end of the question on 'Forum' Indrek Saare yesterday whether I was aware that there was some kind of Swiss court ruling on Alstom. I am not aware of this today either, because I did not have time during the night to see what the ruling of the Swiss court was. As regards the references to Alstom, I would point out that, regardless of this agreement, Alstom is a company which has been operating in Estonia for 20 years. It is a company with hundreds of employees that provides a wide range of services and is linked to a wide range of industries. If some companies do some illegal things, of course we do not have to accept it, but that does not mean that we should stop Alstom in Estonia. With regard to the law on public procurement, I say once again that I explained that various issues will be discussed during the negotiations. Dealing with legal risks is a natural part of such procurement. It is an elementary duty for negotiators to finally achieve an agreement that complies with all laws as a result of the negotiations. Speculating one protocol removed from the context and multiplying, like a broken phonograph, that there is some kind of violation of the Penal Code is completely irresponsible. Of course, the company that conducts the procurement is responsible for its legality. If you want, I can take responsibility for that, too. I have no reason to believe today that this is an illegal treaty in some form. The company has also confirmed this after the doubts expressed last week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U129	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U130	Thank you. By calling 'The Spectator' an entertainment show, the minister has tried to entertain us and is also trying to do so today, bringing the discussion to the theme of the sun and the wind. But the distrusters asked two very specific questions. One of them is a possible contradiction with the Public Procurement Act. If, however, it should be clear that the conduct of this procurement was not in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, do you believe that the responsibility lies with the Minister or with the management of the company?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U131	Thank you. There's no way I can get past the sun and the wind, because you've raised all kinds of doubts. As far as I know, the reference to the National Audit Office has been constantly linked to the suspicion that this power plant is pointless. That's what you're saying. Also in this same article of the Estonian Päevaleht, your party chairman stated that this station gives absolutely nothing to Estonia. The question is, what are the alternatives? Until then, I had not understood the alternatives you offered, but for the first time in the article on Eesti Päevaleht I understood what was offered to Estonia as an alternative: solar energy, offshore wind farms and Russian gas. I made economic calculations during the evening. We will certainly continue to clarify the economic calculation of this vision. Compare this: EUR 4 billion for 300 megawatts and Russian gas and solar panels or a biomass-based oil shale plant in Narva. Which one is more useful to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U132	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U133	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Energy security is undoubtedly an important issue, and it can certainly be argued infinitely whether greater energy security and security of supply are better ensured by many small plants across Estonia or by a large station in Narva. Both options certainly have their own pros and cons, the price being only one component. In order to refute the arguments put forward by Mr Sven Mikser in this Chamber, I ask whether there is any in-depth analysis, a specific document to which you can say that you have decided that there is one major solution instead of many small ones. Secondly, can you confirm clearly and unambiguously that Minister Juhan Parts has nothing to do with the fact that this company, rather than the cheaper bidder, won the Narva Power Plant procurement? Both the initiators of mistrust and the Spectator show have referred to this connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U134	Thank you. The answer to the last question, whether I was involved, is clearly no. As far as possible other production capacities and Estonia's perspectives are concerned, the most thorough work has been done here with the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy approved by the Riigikogu, the Annex of which also includes different scenarios for production portfolios. How many so-called distributed, small power plants can be built economically, and what does it cost? To a certain extent, it is possible. If you have noticed what we have achieved in the last three years, you know that there has been a remarkable development here. However, it must be taken into account that people live in cities today and what the electricity consumption of industry and the economy is. It is not possible to build so-called distributed power plants in Mustamäe and Lasnamäe; it is simply not possible. Yeah, it's possible in some smaller places. An important issue is also electricity and heat cogeneration, where the 'dispersive' option is more serious in Estonia. We have achieved a great deal here over the last three or four years. We have invested in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and smaller county towns. But the limit is the need for heat, which is very strong ahead. There are still a few cities, perhaps there are some opportunities in Tallinn. In the case of combined heat and power generation, we can talk about the economic sense of perhaps 50 megawatts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U135	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U136	Thank you. By listening to your calculations, your claim that you did these calculations in the evening became understandable. I believe you, as Minister for Economic Affairs, certainly know that competitiveness in electricity production is not only based on capital investment, but also depends on the price of CO2 and the fuel used in the various options. I'm asking about the audit of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office has said: 'Seniline practice clearly shows that the most competitive are carbon neutral power generation methods, i.e. wind, solar, hydro and nuclear energy. Thus, producers of oil shale electricity, like other producers of electricity from fossil fuels, are excluded from the market at the price of these sufficient capacities and a high CO2 quota. ' How do you comment? Do you think that's not enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U137	I've got a graph here that I can't see from far away, but I can give it to those who want it. This shows the cost of producing ten electricity generation options, which, in addition to capital costs, take into account fuels, potential environmental taxes, CO2, operating costs and other costs. I don't know which option the National Audit Office is talking about. If we base the price of CO2, even twice as much as the current market price, the cost of producing this new oil shale block is actually the cheapest when it comes to new investments, both in terms of capital and running costs. For example, let us look at the comparison with your proposed vision of using solar energy in the Republic of Estonia. The price of solar energy, as we can calculate now, would be EUR 160 per megawatt-hour, of which capital costs would represent a large part and around EUR 15 would be a variable cost. In the case of an oil shale block, we are talking about three times the cost of production, even at a higher CO2 price than the current market price in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U138	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U139	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! When Eesti Energia published its new price packages, you too were surprised that prices were very high. How did this come as a surprise to you as the representative of the owner of Eesti Energia, whose responsibility the company operates?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U140	Thank you. This is the responsibility of the company in the way they operate in the open market. Rather, my reaction was due to the small volume of communication, given that Eesti Energia is leaving a certain privileged position towards its consumers. We are in a situation where the consumer needs maximum information, simple information, perhaps less of a market participant's very professional talk. Eesti Energia has a slightly greater obligation to try to explain all this. Eesti Energia knows that this was my expectation. We cannot expect this from other market participants. This does not mean that the state, the Consumer Protection Board and the Competition Authority should not do their job, but I think that market participants also have an important responsibility. After all, they are the ones who communicate most with the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition's initiative today amazes me. Last month, the initiators of distrust today said that they could only initiate a mistrust of the Minister if this idea was supported by coalition politicians. Instead, the failure to express confidence would mean a vigorous disclosure of confidence to the Minister. If colleagues from the opposition want to express the Riigikogu's clear confidence in Minister Juhan Parts with today's initiative, this is a very commendable undertaking. I note, however, that there are other, better, more polite and less embarrassing ways to express trust. On behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I am pleased to confirm to the initiators of distrust as well as to all citizens who monitor this process that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, deserves our trust for the following reasons. First, the Minister has acted on the basis of the national interest to ensure the energy security of the Estonian state, and has done his work responsibly. Secondly, the Minister has acted in the Riigikogu in accordance with the National Development Plan for Energy Economy, which was approved by consensus. In deciding to build the oil shale power plant, the government and the Minister of Economic Affairs complied with the decisions taken in the Riigikogu, and there is no reason to retreat today. Thirdly, energy security in the electricity sector means above all ensuring security of supply. The risks to security of supply are not primarily related to difficult-predicted conflicts or other threats which are typically associated with the word "security." If, due to some cable failure or other technical failure, people were left powerless in the winter because there are no power stations in our country to cover our needs, then apart from our own short-sightedness, we would have no reason to blame anyone else. Fourthly, it is incomprehensible to us why a situation has arisen where the European Commission, even from a distance, understands that in order to maintain the reliability of the Estonian electricity system, an oil shale power plant must be built and promises to support it, but all of a sudden the distrusters find that there is a need for a unanimous retreat from the energy policy so far. Fifthly, the abandonment of domestic oil shale and biomass power plants would mean the loss of jobs and the inevitable need to start buying electricity from elsewhere, which we have so far produced and exported ourselves. We can't agree to that. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union wishes Minister Parts a long and fruitful career as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-18_U142	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Now we have a final vote to make. Since the Minister has been distrusted when the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of expressing censure, I ask you to check the presence before the vote! 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. I shall put the vote on the motion of censure. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The Riigikogu did not distrust the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.04 p.m.
