ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The management theorist Albert Gray has once said: "Help others achieve what they want, then you will also achieve what you want. ' This is certainly a valuable principle in team management, but by bringing this idea to the political landscape of Estonia in the last few days, it will have a completely different meaning. The fact that a member of the Riigikogu allegedly tried to tie the position of head of the local government council to the state's investments in a particular subject is certainly an intellectually interesting reasoning. Although our power structures have come to the understanding that there is no basis for further investigation, and we all understand that there is nothing to do with influence and power, we consider the problem described above to be wider than the question of a possible crime. The interference of state authority in the activities of local government, making the acquisition of investments dependent on the party membership of local government leaders, raises concerns and is unsuitable for a democratic society. As the Chancellor of Justice supervises compliance with both the Constitution and other laws of the legislative and executive state and the legislative acts of the local government, the SDE Group puts three simple questions to the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U3	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The subject is Greece's second loan programme. According to this programme, which we adopted in the Riigikogu on 23 February, a very comprehensive plan has been made to restore the sustainability of the Greek economy and to ensure the financial stability of Greece and, through it, the euro area as a whole. The main feature of the new programme is the reduction of Greece's debt to 120% by 2020. It is known that Greek government debt was estimated at 162% at the end of the previous year. The loan programme has a total volume of EUR 130 billion and, in addition to the countries, the private sector participates to a large extent. It depends very much on Greece's commitment to budgetary balance. The first measures have already been taken by Greece. It is in the interest of the Centre Party Group to constantly monitor Greece's compliance with its programme and the possible obstacles, as we want to stand up for our country's participation, up to EUR 357 million, to be guaranteed to the maximum, and we should never have to repay it from our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U5	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to present to Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister for Agriculture, an inquiry which continues to deal with the Aardla Polder and the money allocated there. The title of the inquiry is "Lied by the Minister of Agriculture about the Aardla Land Repair Association." As we know, a few weeks ago, the minister answered our questions in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, the minister either has no subject or lied publicly because he said that about three million kroons of taxpayers' money has been allocated there. In fact, it turns out that seven million kroons have been set aside. There was also a question of lack of signatures, etc. We want to thank the public television and the Spectator, who has kept this subject very topically on the agenda. Thanks to them, we will be able to take this matter forward. We have five questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. First of all, Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 14 March: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Thirdly, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Greens of the Party of Estonia setting up a support group, convened by Juku-Kalle Raid. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 90 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, none 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U8	Today, there is one item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft law amending the Constitutional Committee's law and the civil servants' titles and scales. Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Riigikogu! Good chairman of the sitting! The need for this bill arose from the Annual Review of the Chancellor of Justice last year, which he presented and presented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs held its preparatory session on 9 January when we talked about the activities of the Chancellor of Justice and the law of the Chancellor of Justice and decided to go this way to initiate this draft on your desk today. The next meeting was on 17 January when we looked at the facts in detail. On 18 January, we launched the draft. The first meeting of the Commission, where the draft was prepared for the first reading in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, took place on 13 March. a. I will also say right away, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the first reading and that the deadline for submitting amendments to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could be 27 March at 6 p.m. I certainly do not need to read out the explanatory memorandum to this draft to you, but on some important points I do consider it necessary to do so in the way we discussed it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At the moment, the Chancellor of Justice Act is quite rigid that the Chancellor of Justice must present his annual review to the Riigikogu precisely during the autumn session of the Riigikogu, the third working week of the plenary session. The draft law proposes to make the annual review more flexible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made an amendment to the draft law. Whether the annual review is presented in the autumn or spring, it depends on many circumstances, but the intention is to bring the Chancellor of Justice's annual presentation to the time of the spring session, as well as the presentation by the President of the Supreme Court. Another important change is that it is intended to give the Chancellor of Justice a little more discretion so that he does not have to deal with all kinds of marginal things whose impact on society is very small. The Chancellor of Justice should be able to focus on more important issues, in particular the constitutional review provided for in the Constitution. Thus, according to the draft, the Chancellor of Justice would also have a wider margin of discretion; he could dismiss some of the statements if there was no significant public interest in the facts set out in the statement. Whether we like it or not, however, it is not possible to solve absolutely all the problems of society at the same time, and some choice must be made for all, including us in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. In different countries, ombudsmen have been given quite a wide margin of discretion to initiate or not to initiate proceedings. Until now, however, the grounds for non-initiation in Estonia under the Chancellor of Justice Act have been very specific and very limited. We also discussed in the Commission whether it is too general this provision that the Chancellor of Justice may dismiss the application if the Chancellor of Justice's proceedings are not appropriate for any other reason. This wording has been taken over from the regulation of the Dutch Ombudsman, where the Ombudsman has been left with very wide discretion, which things to deal with and which things not. We can consider the wording of this provision. Ladies and gentlemen, You may table amendments after the first reading of the draft if you wish to amend it slightly. But the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to leave it here in this way. The Commission considered it right that the Chancellor of Justice should have a certain right of discretion when presenting his affairs and distinguishing matters from the essential one, that the qualified staff of the state apparatus should not work fully on third-rate small issues. Public resources still need to be concentrated on the right thing. Our committee chairman, Rait Maruste, gave the example that 90% of the statements at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg are rejected because they are clearly not justified. So what did the Government of the Republic say about this bill? The Government of the Republic supports the draft. The Ministry of Justice has also informed us in its reply that it basically supports this draft and that the circumstances of this draft are justified. However, questions were raised as to what the wording of one or the other provision could be. The Ministry of Justice presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs possible amendments to a number of provisions which should change the wording of the draft, but still maintain the substance of the matter. Indeed, the state must deal with important matters and the discretion could remain with the Chancellor of Justice. We also considered that the Constitution really does not give rise to the principle that the Chancellor of Justice should deal with all marginal applications of regulation. There is no situation in the monitoring of constitutionality that the Chancellor of Justice does not deal with an infringement if the circumstances of the infringement are fully clear, but more complex things require longer work and the Chancellor of Justice must also have the right and the opportunity to do so. What else can I say? This draft amends the Chancellor of Justice's law more generally and eliminates a number of unnecessary and incompatible individual provisions. For example, the current law regulates the internal activities of the Chancellor of Justice as a constitutional institution too thoroughly in comparison with other constitutional institutions, the National Audit Office or also the Supreme Court. As I said, the Ministry of Justice supports this bill, but the representatives of the Ministry thought that there were still some changes that could be made here, but this was already the case in further readings. What more do we need to know about this bill? Perhaps you could look at § 1 (3) of the draft law, which complements the law with § 151 "Proceding a declaration of compliance with the Constitution and the Law'. As I said, there is a possibility that the Chancellor of Justice may overlook the application for a standard check if there is no significant public interest in processing. To answer the questions that may be asked by good colleagues, I am already going to say in advance what this important public interest should mean here. There are two criteria: first of all, how many people this problem, question, norm or provision concerns, and how serious, important or intense this is possible in the Constitution. These are two criteria where this important public interest should come from. In Section 5 of the draft law, subsection 25 is added and paragraphs 2 and 3 are amended. The current paragraph 3 was previously paragraph 2. It is supplemented by point 3 that the Chancellor of Justice may dismiss the application if the application has been filed after one year from the time when the person became aware or was to be aware of the violation of his or her rights. It's an opportunity in the bill. That may be what we will consider in the future. We need to discuss more precisely how practical this one-year criterion is. There is also a new basis for a person's being able to appeal or to resort to other remedies. An appeal procedure or other non-mandatory prelitigation procedure may also take place. In point 6, the paragraph I mentioned is added: '... the procedure of the Chancellor of Justice is not appropriate for any other reason. " This last sentence relates to the role of the Chancellor of Justice in the activities of the Ombudsman as a mediator of law. We, together with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, discussed whether the wording would remain that way, but the reasoning is quite practical, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt. To conclude this long and rather confusing review, ladies and gentlemen, it was the Commission's decision to conclude the first reading. We are expecting amendments for the International Theatre Day of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if I remember correctly, on 27 March at 18:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U10	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I didn't realize to ask that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I didn't understand it a bit. If the Chancellor of Justice considers and considers that the issue addressed in the statement is not so important, and does he not start to fragment his time with it, is this decision final, or is there another way for the publisher to draw attention to the importance of this problem and get this matter dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U12	This is not the judgment of the so-called Supreme Court, which is not subject to appeal. In principle, it is possible for the public to present its position to the Chancellor of Justice at least once again, perhaps giving more detail about the motives and circumstances. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice may react to this question in exactly the same way in the future, or may take into account the new circumstances set out in this statement. It also does not deprive the publisher of the right to appeal to other remedies. It was about filing an appeal, non-mandatory pre-trial proceedings and anything. This is only one lever, which gives the Chancellor of Justice the opportunity not to deal with more marginal matters, which in themselves do not constitute significant violations or are extremely controversial and of minor importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-13_U13	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission's proposal was to close the first reading of draft 167. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 167 amendments. a on March 27, 2006 at 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 10:22 a.m.
