ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, and a happy continuing year! We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching eight draft laws today. First of all, the draft law on the ratification of the convention to prevent double taxation and prevent tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft. Secondly, the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Buildings Act, the Apartment Cooperatives Act, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, the International Sanctions Act and the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act, in which the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Maritime Safety Act, Ken-Marti Vaher, the Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the State Pension Insurance Act, in which the Government of the Republic is represented by Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs. Seventh, draft law amending the Act of Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. And eight, the draft law on ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. My continued New Year for everyone! I didn't mean to, so I guess I don't have to go get the bottle. But I would like to hand over to our Minister for the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, the question of the very sharp increase in the number of violent deaths. If any of you are not aware, the past year was a great sacrifice. In fact, the number of road deaths increased to 101, i.e. by 27% compared to the year before that, almost a third in 2010 the figure was 79. The number of murders also made a significant leap from 84 in 2010 to 99 in 2010. Overall, the number of crimes against individuals has increased by 26%. The number of crimes against individuals is, by the way, one of the key indicators for forensics in the world, which reflects the reality of crime, as the number of crimes against property may not be accurately reflected in statistics. In all of this, we have a number of questions for the Minister of the Interior. How has this situation arisen? What could be the reason for this? Has there been any shortage of management audit completed last year at the Police and Border Guard Board? And what the Ministry of the Interior is going to do to make sure that this figure, which is still very high for the small population of Estonia, turns back to decline like a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U5	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U6	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make regarding the security of supply of the Estonian electricity system. An inquiry has been made by the Centre Party Group, as you can see on the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U7	Exactly, KEF!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U8	And it's about the fact that we all remember, there was a strong storm at the end of the year that shattered Estonia. Very many power lines were damaged. It was known that 175,000 households had no electricity, some of them had to accept the New Year's Eve in the dark, because the emergency brigades could not repair the power lines at the necessary pace. There has been a lot of talk in the press that we need to invest further, we need to hide all cables in the ground, but no one talked about how these emergency brigades are equipped with both information and technical means, what is the emergency response system of Eesti Energia, how emergency brigades are managed. We would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs about this and we have a number of questions that have been put to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U9	Thank you. I have adopted eight draft laws and two inquiries on behalf of the board. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. And now the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First, the draft law amending the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act and the Alcohol Act, which was initiated last December by the Government of the Republic on 14 December; second, the draft law amending the State Audit Office Act and the Law on the Chancellor of Justice Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 December; thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and related amendments to other laws, the Finance Commission; fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on collective agreement initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee on 15 December, the Steering Committee on Legal Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has communicated Estonia's views on the new regulation of financial markets and market abuse to the Committee on European Union Affairs, which was presented by the Government of the Republic on 15 December last year, and has appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the new regulation. The deadline for the opinion is 12 January at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 5 January, Estonia's views on the implementation of the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection and on the implementation of the draft Council Regulation on the application of enhanced cooperation in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection to the Commission for Translations of the European Union and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and draft regulations. The deadline for the opinion is 19 January at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, and to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, please, let's do the presence check! 88 delegates registered as present, missing 13. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us now proceed to the adoption of the agenda. This week's agenda will be on your desks, so I'll put the agenda to the vote. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U10	Let's go to today's agenda. There will be an answer to questions. The first is an inquiry by Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luise, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laasi, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Musta on the investments of the Ministry of Culture (No 60). Aadu Black, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister for Culture! 17 A member of the Central Party Group has written a fine question, which is certainly also a very good question, as was said in the old days about the drafts. This is driven by the observations of the National Audit Office that the process of allocating investments in the Ministry of Culture is not transparent enough. The Ministry of Culture also does not assess the feasibility of investments, nor does it carry out a cost-benefit analysis of projects financed from the Estonian state budget or any other necessary analysis. Therefore, according to the National Audit Office, it remains unclear on the basis of which it will be decided whether the investment project is sufficiently justified and prepared and where it would be best to channel the limited resources. In this regard, the heirs have written five questions. I do not think it makes sense to read them in accordance with old practice, as the question is likely to be answered by the content of the question anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Black. Please, the Minister of Culture of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U13	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm trying to answer those questions. The first question is: Do you, as Minister of Culture, consider the process of allocating investments to be transparent and justified? ' I imagine that the inquisitors here have in mind the distribution of cultural and sporting investments, rather than the distribution of public investment in general. The honest answer is that it cannot, by 100%, be considered transparent and justified. Rather, it can be considered transparent, but whether it is justified every time, it is, of course, a dilemma. As you know, very many investments are also a matter of political agreements, and whether these agreements are necessarily always justified, this will only become clear after a few years. But we have constantly made this process more transparent and justified. Of course, you can always say you can do better. In allocating investment grants, the Ministry of Culture is guided by the state budget strategy, sectoral development plans and the priorities approved by the Government of the Republic, as well as the programme of action of the Government of the Republic and the instructions for allocating investments from the Ministry of Culture. As regards projects co-financed by the European Union Structural Funds, the decision-making project always requires additional materials, including feasibility and cost-effectiveness analyses, which could be applied in the same way to Estonian projects. We will continue to complement the guidelines for the allocation of investments. The objective is very simple: so that all this is clearly understandable and justified. The second question: 'What does the Ministry of Culture intend to do to cover the operating costs of new buildings in the coming years? ' Now I have to be honest with you, I do not quite understand this question. When it comes to national cultural objects, their operating costs are all budgeted and reflected in the current budget and budget strategy. If we are talking about investment grants allocated to municipalities, the position of the Ministry of Culture is as follows: we are not going to bear the operating costs of the sites belonging to the municipalities. The third question: 'When do you plan to channel enough state budget resources to museums to improve storage conditions? " Honourable questioners! According to my information, the state budget is still adopted by the Riigikogu, not by the Government of the Republic. In this sense, this question of direction may have been a little overstretched. Of course, money is always low. The Ministry of Culture has 36 museums, including 26 state museums, two foundations established with the participation of the state, five municipal museums and three private museums. We have been constantly working on the preservation conditions, but it will not be resolved until the new building of the Estonian National Museum has been completed and the joint museum repository in Tallinn has been completed. Even though in strength, in smaller places, one or the other will surely succeed. For example, we have now also directed the money from the sale of the CO2 quota to help the Valga Museum and help the Estonian History Museum. Question 4: 'The information system for museums is still incomplete, as operating costs allocated from the state budget have decreased in recent years, making it impossible to hire additional staff to carry out additional tasks. Will and when the Ministry of Culture plan to increase state budget receipts so that museums can actually fulfil their obligations? ' Of course, we could go back to the content of the question. The Ministry of Culture would really be happy to find the strength to increase the state budget receipts, but unfortunately we are not going to be able to do so in any way, except for the museums' own revenues, which is a separate subject. If seriously answered, the museum information system MuIS is certainly not incomplete. This is the first initiative of this kind in the world, and it builds on new information from day to day. So far, there are about 1.5 million museums. At the end of 2011, we sent a questionnaire to all museums to predict the final date for entering museum collections into the database, as well as to analyse the state of play of the internal resources needed for this work and how much additional resources would be needed if the aim was to enter all museum data in MuIS by the end of 2013. We are waiting for answers to this questionnaire by 1 February this year. After that, we will also make specific decisions. There is, of course, an important problem here. It's not like entering MuIS is going to be done by the first person on the street, it's going to take a pretty high qualification, and teaching these people is problematic. But we still hope that this will be done by the current museum people themselves, that it will not be necessary to hire temporary workers. Question 5: "Do you consider it right, as Minister of Culture, that earning your own income requires such a contribution from employees that the workforce has been reduced in order to carry out the other tasks of the museum? " This question is based on a rather skewed assumption that the visitor-friendliness of the museum and offering interest to a wide audience are not as important as collecting and preserving. The mission of the museum is to collect, study and preserve the cultural value of a person and his or her living environment as well as to organise their public demonstration for scientific, educational and recreational purposes. Thus, earning own revenues is not a separate task, but a normal phenomenon inherent in the museum's core activities and is expected from every rational cultural institution. Own income is not an end in itself, but a measure that shows the performance of the museum in fulfilling its role of mediation. By the way, it should also be said here that there is no other money, nor is there any own income, nor is it public money, because state resources are used to make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U14	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U15	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have missed this subject with great flying force, and I would like to clarify one of your statements. In fact, you have said last year that public sport investments in small places are pointless because there are not enough people who are athletic and the maintenance of sports buildings is too costly for municipalities. Would you like to explain this statement to the members of the Riigikogu in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U16	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U17	Yes, I do. I never said anything like that. I have said that when building all sports objects, municipalities must consider whether they are sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Probably a question of the same area. In the past, the Ministry of Culture has supported the county's public sports centres, but now the programme of the county's public sports centres has been "stopped' by 2012. How do you see the way things are going in this regard? Will this programme be restored and for what reasons were these investments suspended as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U19	I owe you the answer today to what happens in the future. At the moment, we have, in any case, focused on paying off the old debts associated with the old agreements. These relate, by the way, to investments in cultural and sporting objects made by municipalities. New issues are currently not taken up until it is clear how existing facilities have been used and what their sustainability is. We can do this thanks to the up-to-date sports register when it comes to sports facilities. This register includes all data relating to sports facilities, their use and also their costs. All of this needs to be analysed, and only then can we plan new investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U20	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U21	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In 1997, the Ministry of Culture started implementing such practice that large cultural objects were reconstructed and built with the help of the so-called leasing. The banks accepted the Minister's guarantee letter that the Ministry had planned money for heating in the budgets of the following years, and the Ministry paid back the loan for five to ten years. The concert hall of Estonia, Vanemuine, Jõhvi and Pärnu as well as Tallinn Drama Theatre, Russian Theatre and Rakvere Theatre were built or reconstructed. This, of course, created a pre-defined burden on investment in each ministry's budget, which the Ministry is still suffering from. As a minister, would you now assess the historical legitimacy of such a practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U22	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U23	This is such a wide question that it could be polarised here for an hour in a row, which unfortunately the Riigikogu Rules do not allow. I think in 1997 we had a slightly different view of the economic development of the Estonian state than the reality of today. We imagined that the state budget would grow automatically if not 20%, then at least 10% per year. Taking on such responsibilities seemed to be almost a small matter with such growth. It's a very different picture today. We certainly cannot expect an increase in the budget to the extent that it was in the late 1990s or in the early 2000s, and I would be very careful to take on such new leasing obligations. Especially given that we do not have a final analysis of how, for example, sports objects built through these leasing transactions have proven themselves. As far as the big theaters that were repaired using this scheme are concerned, I think these decisions were absolutely correct. This is reflected in the current state of play, where theatre halls are crowded, and where theatres have considerable returns. No man wants to go to a bleak, unheated, unrepaired space show. I think it was justified in the case of theaters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U24	We now have a slightly modified voting system. It was probably better to have three letters behind the name, so I guess, I don't know. Is that really bad? You're a group of...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U25	KEF stands for the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U26	Thank you. I'll start with the procedural side first. For the first time, I see an abbreviation like KEF behind my name on the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U27	It hasn't been coordinated with anyone, and I don't see an IRLF or any other F.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U28	All right, let's keep looking. But in coming back to the question, Mr Minister, have you considered such a proposal so as to avoid duplication in the area of national memory? I still see that there is a pointless duplication between archives and museums. And all systems that work well would certainly work much better and more efficiently if they had one intellectual leadership. That's one. And the question of continuation: perhaps the merger of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research should be considered in Estonia at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U29	I think there's gonna be a REF, too, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U30	No, it just sounds pronunciative.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U31	Please, colleague Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U32	Ladies and gentlemen of the KEF. You will be answered by the representative of the REF: 100% agree! I think that both of the proposals you have made are worth considering. Certainly, the current duplication between memory institutions is neither rational nor reasonable. The state has also taken considerable steps to stop this duplication. In my opinion, it was a very sensible step that the county museums that were to govern rural governments were transferred to the Ministry of Culture. As regards the possible merger between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research, this is certainly not a step by the current government and the current Riigikogu, but it can be discussed seriously. It will certainly not be completed during this government's mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U33	Good Minister of Culture! In the New Year's Eve cultural program, ETV showed the show 'Moodbuster'. The programme was a battle between the Estonian Grand Prime Minister and the Finnish Grand President, whose humoristic or sketchic content was understood only by its creator, rather than by inciting a senseless hatred between neighbouring peoples and desecrating the rabid national symbols. Despite good funding for national TV, it seems that good programme editors and visionary leaders have not been found. When are people with a sense of culture to find these positions, and are there plans to apologise to the President of a neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U34	Well, from that question, I'm a little shocked. I recommend that the respected MP read the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. It is completely exhaustively written, which are the powers of the executive power in the management of national broadcasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U35	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'd like to pick up where your answer to Kadri Samson's question ended. Of course, as long as we do not have an administrative reform, we have municipalities that are not sustainable. Today, the Ministry of Education and Research has a plan to pull together the school network, which means that the last bad sports objects will disappear in some municipalities. Do you have any plans to think that the state should still take on investments in these facilities in municipalities that really do not have sustainability, but there are still people who would like to have sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U37	Your question is based on the assumption that, if you upgrade the infrastructure with a swimming pool or a gym, for example, people will move from large centres to the territory of that municipality. Maybe you're right, but I don't believe in it. I think that the existence of a sport object in itself is not sufficient motivation to increase people's desire to live in the territory of one municipality or another. Still, the job, the training opportunities for children, the general environment is what is the main motivation for choosing where to live. If we start making investments that we very much doubt about sustainability, the possibility that public money will be spent in vain is great. It would make sense, at least, to analyse these risks sufficiently before taking them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U38	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U39	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister! I ask you about the investments that come to local governments through the Ministry of Culture. You claim that the obligations arising from old agreements should first be fulfilled. Could you, Minister, tell me what these old agreements are? As far as I am concerned, the Ministry is not allowed to conclude contracts that go beyond the framework of the current financial year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U40	This is not the case, because there are always separate points in the State Budget Act for contracts that can be concluded for a longer period. Your colleague Jaak Allik has just pointed out with his question that since 1996 the Ministry of Culture has made long-term commitments to pay lease payments for such investments. So your information isn't exactly accurate. But this table, what kind of duties are up now, I don't have with me, of course. If you consider it necessary, the Ministry of Culture will provide you with this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U41	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Here, the main discussion here is about the past and the present. I'd ask about the future. In which major sites is the Ministry of Culture planning to invest in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U43	Mikhail, you've been in charge of these decisions yourself. In 1996 the Riigikogu has identified a list of three cultural objects of national importance: the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Kumu and the Estonian National Museum. Of these, only Kumu is finally finished and also fully paid. As we know, the Academy of Music and Theatre is in progress because it has not yet been built in the case of a hall complex, ERM, or the Estonian National Museum, we have a plot and a project. So the direct answer is: most certainly ERM, as well as the Academy of Music and Theatre, which is probably also financed with the aid of cultural capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U44	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U45	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you more about the museum information system. If I understand correctly, next year, the museums' general information system will have to be ready as a model. It's understandable that it can't be finished once and for all, because life goes on. But I would like to make it clear: did your answer concern only national museums or even local museums? The funds are quite large in local museums, too, and they are of national importance, but the municipalities are not able to provide all this model with money at once, let's say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U46	You can't get everything at the same time anyway. As far as MuIS is concerned, MuIS as the national database is complete. It's about entering the data there, how quickly the museums can enter all their museums. Yes, it concerns 100% of all state museums. This, I think, we're doing great. It's a matter of course, which is the final date. As I said, by February 1, we'll collect the answers from the museums and then we'll see what goal to set. I admit it's quite difficult for municipal museums to enter all their collections into this database. Let's be honest, a lot of municipal museums also have a collection of museums that may not make sense to enter the MuIS. But this is already the subject of amending the museum law. As far as private museums are concerned, we need to think carefully about whether or not, if they receive any support from the state, they were obliged to enter the MuIS within a certain period of time. We need to think about whether this is possible and whether it is rational. I still owe you an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U47	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U48	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Before you said that in the context of local authorities' cultural investments, the priority is to liquidate old debts. Can this be taken as the Minister's word that the guarantees issued in previous years on the financing of cultural objects by the Ministry will certainly apply in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U49	You are now asking the lawyer if there is such a principle as pacta sunt servanda, i.e. the commitments made must be fulfilled. Here I cannot respond any other way than, of course, to the commitments that have been made. I'm certainly not going to write these commitments down the chimney.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U50	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to call my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U51	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only on the remote to correct two factual errors. One is a brief remark. The Minister claimed that in 1996 I was here in the Riigikogu when it was decided which of the largest funded items were. You see, Mr. Minister, in 1996 I was a very happy person, and I was not in Parliament and did not know how we were going to have a policy. It's one of your little slips. But I would like to talk a little bit more about this happy situation in the Estonian theatres, which we are now told by the Minister. While he was answering other questions, I was able to look at the data from our Statistical Office, and these are the following. Yes, between 1985 and 2010, including the latter, the number of state and urban theatres has increased slightly. There were nine in 1985 and 12 in 2010. However, the number of performances was 4083 in 1985 and decreased by 20% by 2010, reaching 3247. This means that in 1985, when the Estonian population was about 200,000 people larger than today, 986,5 theatre visits per 1000 inhabitants were made. This figure will be 562 in 2010. In absolute terms, this means that in 1985 there were 1508100 theatre visits, and in 2010 there were twice as few, or 753800. It should be noted, however, that there are even more than half the number of theatre halls compared to 1985, 37 of them, and approximately 14% more seats: 8230 in 2010, but 7049 25 years before. So it's not such a beautiful situation in our theaters that there's a marked decline compared to what was 25 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U52	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Since there are no more requests for speech, I will conclude the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U53	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Inara Luigas, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Deniss Borodichi, Valeri Korbi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Mihhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Aivar Riisalu, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Jüri Ratas on 8 November 2011 (No 62). Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U54	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. To the Minister of Regional Affairs, 17 members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry concerning the completion of the land reform. 'As a result of the 2010 review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office draws attention to the land issue of rural municipalities and cities, which is entangled behind the completion of the land reform. In the process of completing the land reform, the focus will be on clarifying the relationship between land ownership and municipalisation. To this end, in 2008 the Government of the Republic approved the "Principles for the establishment of the State Reserve', which sets out the list of countries from which the State Reserve is formed. The National Audit Office has found that the principles of establishing the state reserve of land are still not transparent enough for local governments. In fact, local governments have the impression that the country's land reserve will be formed at random, with the aim of fulfilling the sales plan and increasing the revenue of the state. The municipalities and cities would not be opposed to the land being held by the state if the state were to explain why the land was to be held by the state. The Land Board confirms that it is based on the principles of establishing the land reserve of the State, which is not a public document, when applying for ownership of the land. ' We have seven written questions for the Minister, which we ask him to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U55	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Now please to the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler's speaking desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U56	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer by question. The first question: 'Is the completion of the land reform a priority for today's government? " Yes, completing the land reform is one of the priorities of the current government. This is evidenced by the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015, which, according to point 14 of which the government aims to complete the land and property reform. Given the importance of ending the land reform, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment have also responded to the same questions in December of last year. As they have already given me comprehensive answers to all the questions that have now been asked, I will try, for my part, to add only a few nuances, not to repeat everything that ladies and gentlemen have already said here. Secondly, 'When and how will the land reform be completed? 'The Land Reformer is the Government of the Republic through the Land Administration. According to the Land Office, in a situation where around 10% of land, including around 9% of land, has not yet been reformed, the land reform can in principle be considered to have been successfully completed. There are unfinished procedures relating to complex problems and lengthy litigation between owners regarding access to the property or the establishment of land borders, and to return or privatisation disputes between landowners and their heirs. In addition, the land under the Ministry of the Environment, which includes land subject to conservation restrictions, land areas of deposits and land under state forests, local roads not formalised by local authorities, land for green areas, parks and other public areas, and land necessary for public infrastructure, defence and nature conservation purposes, is also part of the unreformed land. In order to accelerate the ownership of the land by the Land Office, in 2009 the cadastral units began to be formed on the basis of plan material, as the budget amounts do not allow all the land units to be formed by surveying. In 2011, four times more land was put into state ownership than it was in 2007, for example. The Ministry of the Environment, as responsible for the land reform, intends to send a draft law amending the Land Reform Act to the new round of coordination in the near future, setting final deadlines for the completion of the land reform. The amendment to the Land Reform Act was also on the agenda in the 2011 negotiations between the Government Commission and the Municipal Associations Cooperation Council in the Working Group on Environment and Land Affairs. In the final protocol concluded as a result of the negotiations, we fixed, as an agreement between the Government Committee and the Municipal Council Cooperation Council on the 2012 state budget in the field of environmental and rural matters, the joint wish to terminate the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other related laws and submit it to the Government of the Republic. As the above-mentioned disputes need to be regulated at law level are complex and the draft authors wish to discuss their possible options in depth with representatives of local governments, the submission of a draft law to the Government of the Republic has been delayed. The third question: 'How much do you think it is necessary to identify the local authorities' needs for land? Why hasn't it been done so far? " The assessment of the needs of local governments is part of the local planning process. The type and purpose of the land needed by one local authority is planned in the municipality's or city's development plan and decided on the basis of the established general plan. Local authorities with valid general plans and a clear intention to municipalise the land specifically requested for the performance of their statutory tasks have submitted their applications to the Ministry responsible and to the Government of the Republic. Reasoned applications are granted and most of the applications from local governments are accepted. For example, in 2009, the Government of the Republic issued 69 regulations on the municipal ownership of the land, which concerned 124 rural units, and only two regulations on the refusal of the land's municipal ownership, which concerned five rural units. In order to get an overview of the unreformed state land and to improve the efficiency of land reserve and land valuation activities, a map application was developed in 2008 by the Land Office, enabling the operational collection of data on the number of applications for land not yet reformed and how much land is wanted for municipal property. The information to be collected is precisely necessary to coordinate and organise land-related information and procedures for the completion of land reform. Regrettably, not all municipalities have used the card application so far and have informed the country about their country needs. In the annex to the Final Protocol to the 2012 state budget negotiations between the Government Commission and the Municipalities' Cooperation Council, we wrote as one agreement in the field of environmental and rural matters that local authorities would continue to map their land needs using a map application for local authorities. Question 4: "How much are you interested in working with local governments to solve land acquisition and development? What have you done or are you doing in this area? ' In cooperation with local authorities aimed at completing the land reform, the Minister for the Environment is the leader and coordinator of the Land Reform Act. The Minister of the Environment is also the Head of the Working Group on Environment and Land Affairs in the negotiations between the Government Commission and the Municipal Associations. The area of government of the Minister for Regional Affairs includes issues concerning the development of local government, the planning and coordination of regional administration and regional development, and the organisation of spatial planning activities at national level, which are more indirect in relation to municipal property. However, as Head of the Government Commission, I can draw the attention of the General Assembly of Budget Negotiations with the Municipalities' Associations to a few issues in which the state and local authorities have not reached an agreement and have had different opinions. If necessary, they have been transmitted to the Government of the Republic for information and a solution to the problem. Since the regional government also includes rural governments, I would like to emphasise the role of rural and rural governments in cooperation aimed at ending the land reform. Between 1 January 2009 and 1 May 2010, there is a significant number, namely 2700 land units with different destinations, on the basis of decisions taken by municipal land managers. That is, in addition to the government of the Republic's decision on land transferred to municipal property. Question 5: "Why are the principles of establishing a country's land reserve not publicly available? ' The principles for establishing the land reserve of the state submitted by the Minister of the Environment to the Government of the Republic have been approved by the Cabinet in January 2008. The principles for establishing the land reserve have then been introduced in the Environmental and Rural Affairs Working Group of the Municipal Associations. The Minister of the Environment made a more comprehensive presentation on the day of the municipalities and cities in Tallinn and has been introduced to the municipalities later. Question 6: "How do you explain the situation where the Minister for the Environment has expressed the view in recent years that the municipality does not have a legal basis for obtaining free municipal land for housing, production and business, while the Government of the Republic has at the same time transferred land with such objects to municipal property? If the responsibilities of local authorities have not changed significantly in the meantime, why has the legal treatment of this issue changed? " This question has been thoroughly answered by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment. The functions of local government are specified in Section 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act. By decision of the Government of the Republic, in the course of the land reform, land is transferred to municipal property for the purposes and tasks listed in this Act. The basis for the decision to grant municipal ownership is the application submitted by the municipality. If it becomes apparent that the requested land is necessary for the performance of the local government organisation act or of the public-law tasks entrusted to the municipality by another law and that it is not possible to carry out the task without having a specific rural unit, the land shall be converted into municipal property. The principles of municipal ownership of the land have not changed in this respect. Question 7: 'How do you view the view of the National Audit Office that applications for municipalisation of land to be decided by the Government of the Republic must be prepared by the Minister of Regional Affairs? In your opinion, would this be justified and necessary to increase the competence of the Minister for Regional Affairs? ' Paragraph 39 (1) of the Land Reform Act provides specifically for the institutions carrying out land reform, namely the Government of the Republic through the Land Administration and the local authorities under the Land Reform Act in accordance with the procedure established by the Government of the Republic. In the final phase of the land reform, I do not think it is appropriate to amend the law and assign tasks from one ministry to another. The Prime Minister also expressed in his reply that the Government of the Republic did not at this stage see the need to move the procedure for municipal land ownership from one ministry to another. In response to the proposal of the National Audit Office, I explained for my part that bringing proceedings to our Ministry is not meaningful, but we consider it appropriate to involve the Minister of Regional Affairs during the procedure in order to assess the compatibility of applications for municipalisation of the land with the provisions of the Land Reform Act and the application procedure for municipal property of the land. I also confirmed that we are prepared to participate in the mapping and development of these processes. Finally, I also assure you that, indeed, the Minister for the Environment has introduced the principles that were asked about here on the day of cities and rural municipalities. I even got the slides of this presentation. They really do exist, and he's done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U57	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the questions. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are right! Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, answered the same question right here in the Chamber, and then I asked him a question he was unable to answer. Maybe you're a little more competent on this matter than he is. This concerns gardening cooperatives in Narva, Sillamäe and elsewhere. There's this problem, as you probably know, that has established gardening cooperatives. These are legal persons, they are in the country of the state, some people who have Estonian citizenship can privatise the country, others cannot, they rent the country. In the end, people give up and go away, but taxes have to be paid by the gardening cooperative. People have been in a lot of trouble with this for years. Maybe you have some kind of hopeful message for the members of these gardening cooperatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U59	I read the verbatim report of this sitting, where the Minister of the Environment answered these questions. At the time, I thought it was a different angle: whether the land used as gardening land would be handed over to the local government. And the answer was yes. Indeed, from time to time, such transfer decisions are discussed and approved at government meetings, just when they are gardening land. Next, how does the local government deal with these relationships with local residents? I believe that there are different attitudes in different municipalities. Indeed, while I have been a member of the government, no applications have been made by municipalities concerning the land of Sillamäe, Narva and their immediate vicinity. In any case, the government has not made these decisions. If you like, I'll look into it. But the handing over of these gardening lands to municipal property has not been on the government agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U60	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I propose to discuss a subject, but the more fun it is. One of your responses said that last year the government was good and many more municipalities received a positive response to their requests for municipalisation. If I'm not mistaken, that number was 69. Negative responses to requests were just five. I would remind you that last year you have told me twice in Ida-Virumaa that those who have their own mafia in Tallinn are doing well. Do you think this process of municipalisation of the land depends on the existence of this mob? If not, now I'm talking more seriously, wouldn't you like to take your words back?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U62	Yes, I did speak at a forum on this subject: one time at the Narva-Jõesuu City Development Forum and the other at the Narva City Development Forum. And there I said those words trying to make a joke, just like you said here, that it's not a quote, it's just a joke to explain the idea. However, if you asked this question, I will say that this type of lobby has not had an impact on the government's decisions. But when it comes to development documents, such as the Ida-Viru County Action Plan and other such documents, of course, the strong voice and firm position of the representatives of the region are important. When we are talking about the creation of blasphemy programmes in different regions, such as the Setumaa Development Programme, which has been operating in the area of regional affairs for years, the strong voice of the Setumaa spokespersons has certainly been important in its emergence. Of course, we need to stand up for our region, explain our positions, talk about why this kind of support programme is needed. For example, we also have a culture programme for Peipsiveere. There is certainly one element in the good work of local representatives in the region, which has led to such support programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U63	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will elaborate on the question of my colleague, Yana Toom. The situation is that large numbers of countries are currently used by people of Russian nationality in gardening cooperatives. They're not land owners, they're land owners. These people have recently abandoned a lot of plots because they can't sell them, hand them over to someone. And for these squares, there are very many of them, the gardening cooperative pays tax to the state. But the country doesn't do anything about this country. Is there a solution to this question or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U65	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I was hoping you'd take that mob talk back. In fact, this talk that you promised to tell yourself in Ida-Virumaa allows us to talk about the Estonian state as some kind of barracks, where those soldiers who have earned a little more time can do and get everything they need, but the younger ones are being employed all the time. About this is the situation, and it is absolutely independent of when authoritative people start talking in the interests of one region or another. We have an Ida-Virumaa development program in government. It's there, and it was done with a lot of scoops. It was announced as an absolute guarantee to escape the current sad situation. And what's the end of all this? This year's budget does not have a single cent to implement this programme. I think that sometimes a politician needs to have the courage to take back his words and apologize when he's already made a mistake when his tongue slipped. Because what you said in Ida-Virumaa, I'm sure you're not in another place with this kind of honest crap talking, it's ugly, it's embarrassing. To say that our country stands in corruption, that everything depends on lobby groups that influence politicians in one way or another, and talk about this as a positive thing, at least it is impertinent, as I said. I don't think we're gonna meet in this hall for the last time. It's very possible that the next meeting will take place in two or three months, we have time to think. However, I think that, given the young people who read reports about your speeches in the papers, you should correct yourself and withdraw your mafia statements and not try to justify them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U66	I did not prepare this answer in the course of this inquiry. But I'll find out more and I'll get back to you. Above all, the issue is, as I understand it, the relationship between the cooperative and the people, not between the state and the cooperative.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U67	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U68	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U69	Next is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütli, Kalvi Kõutli, Sven Mikser, Helmen Küti, Kajar Lember, Rannar Vassilyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Rein Randver, Mart Mere and Kalev Kotkas on 15 November of the year (No 66). Mr Karel Rüütel's speaker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U70	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We have presented you with ten members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party with an inquiry into the increase in home expenses. It is known that in the near future Estonia will face a massive increase in domestic costs, driven by the opening of the electricity market in 2013, the CO2 trading system of the European Union and the growing demand for wood in energy production, where growing wood burning in oil shale power plants, both existing and new oil shale blocks, will have the greatest impact. The ambitions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Eesti Energia are understandable on the one hand, as this seems to be the cheapest way to meet the objectives of renewable electricity from the perspective of the electricity market. The plans of Eesti Energia are known to want to build two new oil shale blocks that multiply demand for chipping wood. The demand for firewood is growing up to six million cubic metres, and according to current logging plans, it may not be sustainable. If part of the chips are to be imported, the price level will be quite different. We have also presented an analysis of possible price increases in our inquiry in order to be on the same page as the Minister. I would also point out that currently operating power plants, with the exception of Narva plants, consume approximately 0.8 million cubic metres of wood per year, and Narva's working blocks consume about one million cubic metres of wood per year. Each new block in addition to 1.2 million cubic metres of Eesti Energia plans to build two new blocks, the annual consumption of households is about one million cubic metres per year and the annual consumption of large boiler houses is 0.8 million cubic metres per year. We also point out that if a new block were built alone, the share of Narva Power Plants in the timber market would be around 45%. We have four questions, which we ask the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U71	Thank you very much, Mr Karel Knight. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to respond to the speaker's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U72	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your questions. But before I go to specific answers, I would like to draw attention to the analysis presented in the introduction to your inquiry, which contained relatively significant numerical, thus factual inaccuracies, in a mild way. One of you also said off this remote. I'm just adjusting it for the sake of the verbatim. You said that Narva stations currently use one million cubic metres of wood, which is wrong. The actual quantity is two and a little more times smaller, or 400000 m3. The figures and the rest of them are rather mixed up, but I will use this inquiry and give more factual information, which maybe will make future discussions on this rather important issue knowledge-based, not so emotion-based. The first question: 'Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or Eesti Energia consider the indirect effects of the seemingly cheap production of renewable electricity? ' We have, of course, analysed this, and we can say that, as far as we know, in Narva power plants for the production of electricity from biomass, there are no additional negative side effects for the domestic consumer or industry compared to the use of biomass for the production of electricity in other power plants. Now, for a little bit of explanation. The combined use of oil shale and biomass is currently one of the serious ways of reducing the environmental impact of the oil shale energy that is still dominant, without compromising the security of electricity supply. This gives us the opportunity to maintain domestic electricity production, bearing in mind the competitiveness aspect, to create and maintain jobs in energy, and also to increase the use of much better forestry resources, not to mention employment in the forestry sector. I will also explain to you the real European practice of using fossil fuels and biomass together. For example, according to the Danish energy strategy, DONG Energy, which is the majority owned by the Danish State, intends to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% over the next 10 years in the production of electricity and heat. This company is known to provide 85% of its electricity and heat production in Denmark, mainly from coal. Their strategy envisages transferring coal plants to biofuels, all coal plants. In Germany, 30 companies are using biomass with coal, in Finland about 80, in Denmark nine in addition to the one I mentioned, in the Netherlands nine biomass and coal combined with a burning power plant. For example, in 2008, E.ON started to build the capacity of a large Maasvlakte, i.e. a co-incineration plant in Rotterdam of 1100 MW, which is expected to be completed in 2013. The plant to be built by RWE AG in Eemshaven with a capacity of 1600 MW and the 724 MW plant to be built by Electrabel in Rotterdam should also be completed in the same year. These are high-powered new stations. And what is important: in these plants, pellets are known to be combusted with coal, which are exported to a large extent from Estonia. Great Britain is also planning to increase combined combustion of coal and biomass. The largest power generator there, Drax Power, with a total capacity of 4000 MW, has co-incineration capacity of 500 MW at Yorkshire Station. It uses about 1.5 million tonnes of biomass per year, namely pellets, which are also mainly imported. This list could be continued by bringing the various European countries, for example. Using power plants with high electrical efficiency, we can produce the most renewable electricity from wood and thus increase the share of renewable electricity in Estonia. Indeed, it is also true that producing renewable electricity in this way will be cheaper for the consumer than using various other renewable electricity production technologies. In the case of Narva power plants, it should not be forgotten that in the same block of electricity that currently uses wood fuel, the lion's share of the heat needed for the city of Narva is also produced, and we know that the price of heat energy in Narva is the lowest in Estonia. A few words about the impact of all this on the timber market. The timber market is regional. Estonia has a well-established wood export infrastructure and know-how. Since wood is used in energy in all the countries of the European Union bordering the Baltic Sea, we do not see any influence in using wood in Estonia for the domestic consumer and industry of Estonia, which would not occur if Estonia decided to prohibit the use of wood for electricity production. The use of low-value wood in energy will make it possible to improve forest management and thinning and increase employment. Both the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association and the Estonian Private Forest Federation fully support the use of low-value timber in the energy sector, including electricity production, and the efficient development of the respective production chain. The second question is how much Narva power plants intend to burn wood in oil shale boilers in 2012 and what its impact on the price of wood will be. In 2012, Narva power plants plan to use approximately half a million cubic metres of wood. Last year, this figure was slightly less than 50,000 cubic metres. The wood used in Narva power plants would account for about 5% of the Estonian timber market. I believe that it is impossible to provide a credible estimate of the extent to which the three-5% fluctuations in demand affect timber prices in the regional timber market. In recent years, the volumes of timber exported from Estonia have fluctuated two or three times larger. Since one of the hidden thesis related to your inquiry was that the use of wood in Narva power plants has an impact on the price of wood throughout, I will give you a brief overview. First, the volume of wood used in Estonia. On average, about 10 million cubic metres or cubic metres per year were cut in Estonia between 1997 and 2003. In 2010 and 2011, some 7.5 to 8 million cubic metres of timber were cut, according to various sources. We know that according to the Forest Management Development Plan, the sustainable felling volume is 12 to 14 million cubic metres per year. In other words, each year a significant part of this resource remains in the forest. If we look at the distribution of this 8.7 million cubic metres by 2011 uses, it will be divided as follows: 2,8 million cubic metres will be used as raw material for the sawmill, of which 1,2 million cubic metres are finished products for export; 1,6 million cubic metres are production residues, of which 0,5 million cubic metres will be used for the production of exported pellets, 0,2 million cubic metres for own consumption, 0,2 million cubic metres will be used for the production of sawdust in Narva, and 0,5 million cubic metres will be used for the production of sawdust. Next: use of wood. Of this 8.7 million cubic metres is 2.4 million cubic metres of paper, most of which are exported; 0.25 million cubic metres are exported; 1.1 million cubic metres are used for home consumption and 1.1 million cubic metres are used by co-production plants, of which Väo Station spends 29%, Tartu 20%, Pärnu 20% and Narva 30%; 0.7 million cubic metres goes to Kehra, Püssi and Kunda plants, which mainly export their products, and 0.4 million cubic metres are used by other heat boiler houses. One small conclusion can be drawn from this list: the share of timber exports is about 60%, and this is actually the most important influence on the Estonian timber market. Wood exported from Estonia is mainly used in other countries to produce energy and paper. In the case of paper, the price of the pulp exchange is a determining factor in the volume of exports, and Eesti Energia has imported timber from Russia and Latvia, so far in small quantities. It is not true that Narva power plants use high-quality roundwood. It is incomprehensible why anyone should be willing to sell high-quality roundwood to Narva power plants, for which sawmills are willing to pay considerably more. I will also mention the market prices for wood of different quality for the verbatim report, just in case. The most expensive wage is the wage used in the sawmills: the price is EUR 65-70 per cubic metre. Followed by the export of the paper tree: the price is EUR 40.45 per cubic metre. For the rest, the price of the so-called firewood is €26.35 per cubic metre. We are still talking about the price of wood chips, but it is important to note that by the end of 2011, the price of wood chips fell by around 10% compared to the sales prices of the beginning. This trend is shown by the auctions for the sale of firewood by the State Forest Management Centre as well as the prices of contracts concluded by Eesti Energia for the supply of wood chips. At the same time, there have been no changes in the use of timber in Estonia, there have not been any further changes and no major users have left. The reason has been rather in the regional market. The collapse of the pulp market in the second half of the year played a decisive role. The conclusion to be borne in mind when we talk about the price of biofuels and wood chips is that the biofuels market is international. Let the recent open market for wood fuels in the Netherlands prove this. Like any other energy company, Eesti Energia must constantly monitor the development of the timber fuel market and look for more favourable ways to obtain cutting wood. The third question is what will be the effect of the mass burning of wood in Narva power plants when new oil shale blocks are completed. Firstly, as regards the new oil shale blocks, it has been decided initially to build one block, the other being to be decided during this year. These blocks provide for a technical possibility of using biomass as fuel with oil shale at 50%. If 50% of wood chips were used, annual wood consumption would be 960000 cubic metres per year, with just under one million cubic metres. This is the case if the wood is used to the extent of 50%. The use of wood would reduce the specific emissions of CO2 from the new oil shale power plant and improve the competitiveness of the power plant in a situation where the cost of CO2 is high. In this case, the use of wood together with oil shale is economically justified without any additional subsidies. The fourth question starts with the argument that the efficiency of chipping wood used in Narva power plants is low. And then, 'Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications consider that our resources should be used in a sustainable way? " The Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that energy resources must be used in a sustainable, sustainable and economically sound manner. Reasonable use of resources should also mean that resources that have previously been left to rot in the forest will be used. The claim concerning the low efficiency of wood chips used is somewhat incomprehensible. In Narva power plants as well as in other energy production, similar wood chips are used with the same calorific value and other characteristics. I would point out that, in this case, we are talking about renewable sources of electricity generation. I stress: electricity production. The heat produced from wood is completely competitive. In Estonia, the full potential of combined heat and power generation has already been practically deployed; only in Tallinn could the share of combined electricity and heat production be significantly increased. Wood cannot compete with fossil fuels solely in electricity production. Wood is not wasted in Narva power plants. On the contrary, wood is used in the most efficient energy unit in Narva, which can convert to electricity 35% of the energy in the wood, while also producing heat for the city of Narva. Other power plants using Estonian wood chips do not reach this efficiency and produce electricity with efficiency, which is more or less the same as the older energy blocks of Narva power plants. So the efficiency of electricity generation in Narva is higher than in CHP plants in other Estonian cities. In Narva power plants, wood replaces the use of oil shale and the burning of wood increases the efficiency of Narva power plants. The total efficiency of wood use in Narva power plants is similar to that of burning wood in traditional domestic ovens and stoves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U73	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Let's start with my colleague Mikhail of Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm about to say I don't see any alternative to oil shale energy. Since I disagreed with the ideology that comes out of this question, I asked for the help of two energetics to analyse the introductory part of the inquiry. We didn't make it. I wanted to ask the most important question of how you feel about this descriptive analysis. You have already answered that question. Thank you. So I can ask you another question. It's like this. When will a decision be taken on whether or not the next block will be built? In Narva, this decision is expected in the hope that it will be positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U75	Thank you. The short answer is that during 2012, rather in the second half. This depends first on how the construction of the first station starts. I may be wrong to say it in my head, but as far as I know, it's more like the second half of the second half. I can specify that in order to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U76	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U77	Thank you. The very clear point of our inquiry was to clarify whether the wood resource that is in Estonia is currently being used in the most appropriate way. In Narva Power Plants the efficiency is significantly lower than in other power plants where wood is used. Inevitably, the use of chipping wood in Narva Power Plants has led to an increase in the overall price of chipping wood. Our view is that boiler houses in several small settlements may be at risk because of the large investment made, but boiler houses are no longer competitive due to rising prices. The closure of district heating on a local scale would in a sense be equivalent to a social disaster. Has the Ministry analysed the indirect effects of the use of chipping wood in smaller boiler houses and even in domestic consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U78	Thank you. I just answered that question within 15 minutes. I'll try the other way around. Once again, the use of biomass in electricity generation, not to mention cogeneration, where this is possible, is a growing trend in world energy. I have brought along such a book, and I suggest you look up it and look up those parts where the share of biomass in both electricity and heat production and biomass resources is predicted, both globally and across regions. It's just to understand global trends. What are the reasons for this? It's a completely separate question. In many respects, it is an issue of energy resources and energy and climate policy, in those regions where it has been developed. Another issue is the use of biomass. Its price will be wider, whether we like it or not. In the case of Estonia, this is more of a regional level. We are talking about countries along the Baltic Sea, but certainly also about the wider market. I gave many examples of how wood pellets produced in Estonia will be used in the Netherlands and who knows where else. In this sense, this market is the same as it has become much more customary for other fuels. It's a reality. Thirdly, I say that local boilers could at some point be treated separately. We are also going to come up with draft laws and perhaps some development plans. The problems of the warm economy in smaller regions are still more where other sources of heating are used, be it gas or fuel oil. There's a price of heat that's really expensive over reason. Given current prices, the use of biomass would lead to a reduction in the price of heat. We have seen it in several examples, not only in the Tallinn region, but also in smaller boiler houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U79	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U80	Thank you. You have developed this subject a lot and talked about it here, but what would you say, Mr Minister, to those people who live on land in oven-fired houses, in oven-fired farms, in oven-fired apartments, where the price increase was noticeable after wood was used in Narva? It is now planned to do even more. Does this company have to pay for these new developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U81	I do not think it is worth irritating people living in any area who store firewood for the winter and whose neighbour, who has a tractor or who goes to the forest with chainsaws, asks for a higher price and blames it on Narva Power Plants. I don't think that's right. It can calm someone down if you can point a finger at someone, but it's not really true. I tried to explain it again. I think that also applies to conventional firewood. I suggest you go to Paldiski North Harbour, for example, and see what is being transported out of Estonia. We can see how these very Aunt Maal's firewoods are nicely packed and go not even to Scandinavia with large ships, but even further. I asked the port people. I think that the solution for smaller farms using stove heating is that we also need to use the forest resource that remains to rot in the forest. Why are people not motivated to make firewood? In our time, during the Soviet era, all of us, who had an oven-fired apartment or a house, went to winter for a week or two to make our winter trees and got much cheaper. I think this, too, is a possibility in many cases. I said, in answer to Mr Rüütel's questions, that although the authorised cutting volume is 12 to 14 million cubic metres, 7 to 8 million cubic metres will be used. Imagine how much of the same firewood resources will rot in the forest!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U82	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! The price of heat would probably be reduced and also made more stable by the construction of wood chipped electricity and heating plants in county centres. Hence my question: why is Eesti Energia so passive here, why is she not taking the initiative and starting to build these stations? Foreign companies are much more active.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U84	Thank you. Eesti Energia behaves like any company on the basis of its strategy. It is unlikely that it will have the strength or initiative to deal with all areas of fuel and energy. In public opinion, it is more useful than there are many different businesses. Otherwise, we will fall under the hail of accusations that Eesti Energia will seize into its hands all kinds of fields related to the energy economy. I believe that a lot of other companies would be welcome there, and also existing companies, why not, should think about serious investments, especially those whose region has a price of heat above reason, the highest in Estonia. A full list could be made of this, where prices are higher because no investments have been made either in cooperation with the municipality or under pressure from the municipality. We are thinking about how to motivate these investments, because it would give a real victory in the price of heat. We have ideas, and we also want to come up with legislative initiatives, but investment is not currently prohibited by any of those responsible for smaller district heating regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U85	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U86	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sure you'll have to agree with some of your explanations, but some of them fall into a category that the government has used over and over again in recent times when it has nothing wise to say, which means that it will put everything, including the increase in the price of Aunt Mary's firewood, on the hands of lazy Greeks. It should not be argued that the significantly increased demand for wood does not increase the price for the household consumer. But we can probably argue, we just have different views. I come from the fact that you talked a lot about the fact that more and more wood is being used to produce electricity all over the world. I understand that, above all, it makes sense for wood to be used in cogeneration plants when we first produce electricity and heat to heat houses with residual heat. The trouble with Narva is there aren't so many houses to heat. Considering the power we're driving in the oven, we're actually heating up the Narva River.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U87	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U88	What percentage of the residual heat released by the wood furnace can be used as heat, and how much of it goes into the Narva River?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U89	Thank you. Thank you for having some of my arguments with you. But I am still commenting on this price question. The share of Eesti Energia in the Estonian timber market, I read out its components, was less than 5% in 2011. If you admit that the price of biomass will certainly be shaped by the regional market, if not a wider market, then it is clear that this 5% of the Estonian market will not shape the price. Those with a much higher share of the market still shape the price. I've read these figures so you can have time to analyze calmly and think about how this price is gonna turn out. It's very easy to show anyone who comes to the market that he's the one who's raised the price. Let us see who often says that. This is basically said in order to justify failing to do so in connection with the entry of another company on the market. We should not be afraid of this; we should not be defending the market in this regard. In response to Auntie Paintings (I never mentioned Greece here) that there are, in fact, many opportunities for a low price of timber to come up when we think about enriching our rural life. But when rural people go to the forest with chainsaws, they're not stupid enough to charge less than the market can actually get. That's inevitably the case. Now to the specific question. I gave a number of examples. Ideal would, of course, be if electricity and heat were produced together and all heat (not only wood, but also fossil fuels) could be used. That would be perfect. But if we look at European practice, we will see that we are here, frankly, lagging behind rather than forerunners. I read examples from Germany, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Denmark, which are being introduced to us as a very outstanding renewable energy country. It also uses wood in plants that produce only electricity. But we also have calculations of when it is economically worth using wood only for electricity generation. However, we must create technological opportunities for using wood, especially in new plants. Whether we use wood as fuel or not, we will find out when we start using these stations. This is largely dependent on prices on the market. The question concerned Narva's efficiency. I somehow predicted that you would ask me that question, and I reviewed these figures. Generally speaking, in the case of electricity, the efficiency of Narva plants is 35%, and in the case of electricity, the efficiency of the so-called modern cogeneration plants, which are likely to have informed you, is about 30%. These plants have a constant good heat market, such as the Tallinn power plant or Tartu station. They can produce heat and consume heat almost a year. In heat, their efficiency is, I don't want to hurt them, 50%, maybe more, so the efficiency will be about 80%. In Narva plants, which are mainly used for heating Narva houses, the efficiency of electricity is 35% higher than those of these smaller cogeneration plants, depending on the season. It varies from season to season and varies from 15 to 50%. Of course, if you don't need so much heat, but the power of the station is considerably higher, part of the heat will be lost. But exactly the same would happen to any other source of fuel, whether it be oil shale or something else. But notice what we achieve with biomass, we achieve a cleaner environment. Not to mention that we take advantage of a wood resource that would otherwise rot in the forest, or of a wood resource that we would otherwise take to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U90	Thank you very much, Minister. I will open negotiations and invite my colleague, Karel Rüütel, to the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U91	Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, as a forest man, I too believe that less valuable timber needs to be cut down more than it does now. Forest cutting provides jobs, millions of cubic metres of uncut timber also means thousands of uncreated jobs. It is estimated that one million extra cubic metres of jobs per year will be increased by a thousand. The use of domestic renewable raw materials is also good in terms of energy security, income from forest owners, forest industries and people working in forests. But I think we need to look for an additional application for low-value wood and we need to look, above all, for best practices. The question is whether using such large-scale chips in Narva Power Plants is the best practice. At the same time, news is constantly coming from businesses, households and investors, which declare new price increases. Nor can it be considered particularly reasonable and correct. Renewable energy subsidies are primarily intended to keep our children in a cleaner environment and we can rely on domestic energy sources in a secure way. At the same time, should the new business plan of a state-owned company still mean more expensive energy bills for consumers and certainly more pressure on the state budget through such activities? In addition, due to the government's activities, other price pressures have also arisen. Indeed, since the beginning of 2012, specially labelled diesel fuel that could have been used in forestry has been lost. This will once again create pressure to increase the price of wood chips, as will the global increase in fuel prices on the global market. When talking about burning biomass in Narva Power Plants, together with oil shale, it should be taken into account that it is estimated that 30 to 40% of primary energy will be wasted. For example, a new cogeneration plant would generate 2 to 2.5 times more energy than the same amount of wood, in other words, 2 to 2.5 times less wood would be used to produce the same amount of energy. If Narva Power Plants burn with an efficiency of 40%, then for example, the Tallinn Väo Power Plant burns with an efficiency of 75%. Thus, approximately 35% of energy is lost in Narva Power Plants, which in very many cases could be used for heating homes, for example. The total heat losses are 176194 megawatt-hours per year. Given the average price of heat in cities at 40 euros per megawatt-hour, the real cost of unused energy exceeds 7 million euros per year, i.e. 7 million euros worth of Narva Power Plants release hot water into the Narva river basin. Thus, Narva Power Plants use the limited wood resource inefficiently, releasing 7 million euros of energy into the river. In addition to all this, the State will pay an additional EUR 10 million. Inevitably, the question arises as to whether the situation in which people have to pay more and more for the warm-up when, at the same time, the state is paying subsidies to Narva's plants, which are responsible for the same increase in prices. After all, the state also supports the waste of biomass as a valuable resource. It's a good idea for us to analyze more when we make plans. All types of fuel must certainly be used sustainably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U92	Thank you, Mr Karel Knight. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U93	President-in-Office of the Council. I will add a few words to Mr Rüütel's speech. I have always listened with enthusiasm to the performances of Mr Parts; they are very meaningful and very well-founded. Finally, you don't understand what you were thinking with your question, and then I get the impression that I had a stupid question. So Mr Parts has explained to us all the innovations that have been made in energy since they were given to Elering. Now we're talking about handing over the gas pipes. Unfortunately, these so-called progressive steps are always accompanied by high price increases for ordinary consumers. It has now been mentioned, for example, that Denmark is like this and that this country is like this and that there is so much wood in the oven. Let us not forget (the Minister always forgets to mention it) what the average wages in these countries are. The current situation is that the price of firewood used in cottages and farms in Narva has increased to such an extent that people can no longer pay for it, due to the use of chipping wood and the throwing of logs into boilers at Narva stations. I understand you can go into the woods and make your own trees. Is this our future vision that we are now going to make firewood in the woods? We have only just established a procedure for the use of hire payments to buy winter trees and so on. Now you chop it. I think it's a tough setback, not progress. Clean environment and renewable energy, as has been mentioned in today's newspapers, cost the average citizen of Estonia too much, Mr Minister. It's too expensive for this clean environment! Maybe you could keep it cheaper. I'm sorry that this lovely old oven heater, which has been cheapest for centuries, has now risen to the same price class with expensive foreign gas and oil heating. At the same time, we gave up bringing Nord Stream's branch pipeline to Estonia with a calm heart, which might have actually reduced the price of fuel and room heating. We didn't do that, we stood up for clean nature, while all the neighbouring countries thought about solving this problem a little more soberly and did it, and they got the whole thing cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U94	Thank you. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U95	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I would like to turn to the plural, I would say to the esteemed Social Democrats, but right now I have to say in the singular: respectable Social Democrat, please talk your mind and advise your colleagues to do the same. Everything that concerns oil shale energy is much more important, interesting and complicated than what you are trying to show the people of Estonia. Look at what is happening in the world, see what processes are currently taking place in the United States, for example, where oil shale production is increased by hundreds of percent every year and made into a strategic source of heating. Every year, their dependence on oil decreases, especially in the last three years, because they have oil shale. We also have oil shale. It means our independence, our economic independence, and we must use it. We have at least 30 years' worth of supplies. It would be a fool not to use them and pay a higher price, knowing that technology will evolve and, in 10 or 20 years' time, energy sources may be quite different, something we can't imagine at all. But right now, oil shale is a real way out. I'm not talking about the price of heat in Narva, thank God, is 27 euros for a megawatt-hour. Compare it to the price in some places in Estonia, where the moral limit, which is 90 euros, has already been exceeded. It is only for this reason that it is worth discussing this issue a little more seriously, rather than just talking about renewable energy, which is so expensive that no wallet can stand it. You could also say that oil shale employs both miners and energetics and those who serve them. There are thousands of these people. In any case, oil shale is cheaper than all we buy into the country. So, independence, work, low heat price, it's all oil shale. Think again about whether this rhetoric is needed, this fight against building new blocks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U97	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Jüri Ratas, Deniss Borodichi, Aivar Riisalu and Mailis Repsi on 17 November 2011 regarding inactivity at the Police and Border Guard Board. I would like to ask Mr Kalle Laanet to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! In the meantime, almost two months have passed and a lot of water has flowed into the sea, but we are certainly waiting for answers to this question. In short, the inquiry is motivated by a case that took place in the Saaremaa Educational Workers' Association, where the accountant Tiiu Randma allegedly took nearly EUR 32000 from the Union's cashier, but the report sent by journalists to the police was not responded and the procedure was not initiated on the grounds that it was a rumor. The police also did not want to share information with the local press. At the same time, there are a number of cases where criminal proceedings have been initiated to verify information published in the Estonian media, and a much smaller hint than a hint of theft of EUR 32000 has been sufficient. Unfortunately, when it turned out that this was not a rumor, as the police spokesperson suspected, and the incident was also acknowledged by the Saaremaa Educational Workers' Association. Journalists tried to get information about what had happened in order to carry out their task of informing the public, but the police were dim and dragged by the answers, also referring to a working day ending at 4 o'clock, which would later no longer be read in the Western Prefecture. On October 10, 2011, the Voice of the Islands sent a letter of appeal to Raivo Küüt for explanations. By 17 November, more than a month later, the newspaper had not been bothered to inform. It is worth noting that there have been a number of similar cases, but in this case this is a concrete, recent example which requires a response. Consequently, we have five questions. We're waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U99	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. I would like the Minister of the Interior to give an answer to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U100	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Inquiry No 67 concerns the Police and Border Guard Board. I'll answer you by question. The first question concerns information submitted to the police on the alleged misappropriation of money. The question is whether this information was actually provided to the police, if so, when and in what form the police received information on the matter and what was the police's decision. Since the questioning deals to a significant extent with practical questions about police work, I will provide good questioners with the information we have received about the proceedings from the Police and Border Guard Board. During the interview, the police received information about the possible misuse of money in the Saaremaa Educational Workers' Association in September 2011. Further activities were discussed between the Saaremaa Criminal Police and the Saaremaa Educational Workers' Association and it was agreed that the Educational Workers' Association would carry out an audit, which would have to identify possible misuse of funds if this had taken place. The CID decided that the procedure would be initiated on the basis of the results of the audit. The second question: "Do you think that, if there are such accusations, it is justified not to initiate proceedings by the police? Please explain. ' First, the general. If there is an incentive and a basis for criminal proceedings, it is clear that criminal proceedings must be initiated. Pursuant to § 194 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the motive for criminal proceedings is a report of a criminal offence or other information referring to a criminal offence. The basis for criminal proceedings is the identification of the characteristics of the crime as an incentive for criminal proceedings. With regard to the specific case, it was not clear what the characteristics of the crime might be, their clarification needed to be clarified. Thus, the criminal police considered it necessary and justified to carry out an audit in order to confirm the person's "hours," internal conviction and to obtain sufficient grounds, as well as sufficient suspicion, for the offence to be committed. The procedure was not left open, but additional information was collected in agreement with the parties to clarify the basis of the criminal proceedings. After further information was received and it became clear that the misuse of funds had taken place, criminal proceedings were opened with the police. Question 3: "How do you explain the fact that the letter sent to Mr Raivo Küüs has still not been answered by the Voice of the Islands? Answering citizens' letters has specific rules in the public service. What are you going to do to stop such irregularities and to prevent them from happening further? " The Voice of the Islands received a reply from Raivo Küüt, to our knowledge on 28 November 2011. A special meeting was held on 1 December 2011 with the members of the Saarte Voice on this matter. The deadline for replying to a request for clarification shall normally be 30 days from the date of registration of the request for clarification. Subject to the content of the request for clarification, the time limit for replying to it may be extended to a maximum of two months. The request for clarification of the votes of the islands was registered on 10 October 2011. In this case, the primary deadline for reply has indeed been missed, and this is regrettable. We have also drawn the attention of the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board to this fact and have given a clear order to ensure and verify compliance with the deadlines laid down in the letter of formal notice and the Act on response to the request for clarification. Question 4: 'If the principle of police being an institution addressed to a person is taken into account, but in many cases where situations are left unanswered and no explanation or information is given, the question of what is happening in the PBGB will inevitably arise. ' I certainly agree with the heirs that in all cases requiring police intervention and response, the police must also intervene and react. However, the question raised has been raised on the basis of one particular case and does not allow an assessment to be made as to whether there really are cases of which the police do not want to know anything. If an official fails to act in a guilty manner in relation to his or her duties, he or she shall be guilty of non-compliance with his or her duties. Incorrect enforcement of service obligations is a punishable act of disciplinary nature and the person who has committed disciplinary offences and who has been proved guilty is liable in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. Once again: cases where the official simply does not want to solve the case must not, of course, be present. If so, such cases must be specifically examined, monitored and dealt with. The last question: 'As Minister of the Interior, are you satisfied with the organisation of work at the PBA in the light of the above case? ' Police and Border Guard Board has been acting as a joint institution for two years now. It is the largest state institution in Estonia; over 6,000 people work there. During this two-year period, there has already been some experience and practice. But this is also a short period of time. There are good experiences, but there are certainly shortcomings. In order to identify the positive and negative aspects of this governance model, as well as the decision taken by Parliament, and to assess whether the organisation of work needs to be improved, an independent management analysis is being carried out. I believe that this independent expert analysis will provide us with the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board with the basis for even better organisation and even more precise reflection of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U101	Thank you, Minister. Question from Mr Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. How do you feel about this example that we are dealing with inquiring, could certain officials have acted differently? In their dealings with the public, did those officials who are obliged to do so fulfil their official duties? What is your opinion that the management and officials of the Police and Border Guard Board could do differently in the future so that there are no such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U103	Thank you. I think that it is certainly extremely important to fulfil the obligation to pay attention and care. The initiation of criminal proceedings is, of course, within the jurisdiction of the criminal authorities, and only within their competence, it is up to them by law. If you, a good understandr, referred to communication with those who have turned to the police with concern, I would say that, for example, responding to a request for clarification could certainly have been more operational and quicker. This might have prevented some of the emotional frustrations that people may have experienced if they had not received a response to their serious concerns for some time, even in cases where there is a likely absorption of a significant amount of money. But I think this is an instructive case that can draw its own conclusions from local practitioners, local officials, who are most directly affected, as well as the management of the Police and Border Guard Board as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U104	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few months ago, it was about the same situation, except I was standing on the remote, Mrs. Ergma was sitting behind me, and you were sitting where ministers usually sit. I told a story about this remote. Let me remind you briefly. This was because a mayor of a large city wrote to the Capos at the beginning, after a statement to the Economic Police that a head of a state-owned foundation had admitted to him that he had struck more than half a million kroons from the foundation's budget. I told this story in public here in your presence. What have you done to study this story? I named both the name of the foundation and the people involved. Please tell me what you've done about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U106	Thank you for your question. I have, however, explained a little bit about this panel during my brief term of office, which is why criminal proceedings are being initiated and who is doing it. You know perfectly well how, under the current laws, we, I would say, are governed by the rule of law. This will be dealt with by specific law enforcement authorities. I think that Estonia is fairly balanced in terms of criminal proceedings. Criminal proceedings are conducted by the prosecutor's office, the investigative authorities are, of course, also able to initiate criminal proceedings, in which case, according to law, the head of criminal proceedings, that is to say, the prosecutor's office, must be immediately informed. It is up to them to decide and only to them to decide on the grounds for doing so, whether or not there are incentives and grounds for initiating criminal proceedings. A significant part of this is not only their own internal practice, but certainly shaped by our case law, it has been doing so over the years. After all, the separation and independence of powers guaranteed by law to investigative bodies and also to the prosecutor's office indicates that such decisions are their exclusive competence. The information you've shared publicly has certainly reached them as well. These procedures can only be carried out by criminal authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U107	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U108	Thank you, Madam President. How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U109	You can talk here for up to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U110	Strange day today, everything's gonna be a little pissed off. I'll remind you of 1999. Then something completely insane began to happen across Estonia, and drug crime grew enormously. The situation was that there were hardly any streets in which some houses, some apartments could not have bought any lighter drugs. The cars were standing by the shops, and people knew where all this was going on. People developed anger. They turned to me. I announced a program in Narva, Sillamäe and Kohtla-Järve: since everyone knows where this trade is going, but the police don't want to notice it, please send me these addresses, and then it's my business that the police start checking them out. According to memory, I was sent over 40 addresses, half from Sillamäe and Kohtla-Järve, half from Narva. You know, I don't even remember who the Minister of the Interior was back then. Was it Tarmo Nature? From this remote, I gave him these addresses. That was enough. I started receiving letters from the police prefectures that at one address or another this, this and the fact that the allegations were proven and that the actions were such, such and such. I didn't have much love then or now for Mr. Nature. But I have to say that this person at least understood how much he was dependent on the Minister and what needs to be done, that there is no need to talk a blank story about turning to the prosecutor's office, etc. What the D.A.'s office is doing, that's what we've learned perfectly in the last few days. The aim of Kapol is to deal with six cities with the Centre Party in power, the prosecutor's office aims to destroy specific people in order to defeat the scandals that have emerged in connection with the Kapo and IRL. I told you about a particular case. How can you, Minister of the Interior, tell me that you are not obliged to respond to this? What minister are you? A purely political figure, I don't know what material. So long ago, we have no illusions. Looking at what's going on, we can't even imagine what's going on in the near future. When you read the criminal reports, how the number of killings increased last year, it's totally horrible. So, Minister, I would remind you that when I told you this story, you were sitting here talking to Mrs Ergma. I was talking about double standards, I was talking about making it feel like some are better and others are worse, on one occasion it has to be dealt with, on the other, it is not categorically. You guys were kidding. Mrs. Ergma told you, but better is better. I heard it in the hall. You laughed together. There is no need to laugh and weep, but action is needed. We need to act where your action is actually needed, not where your party's bosses require it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U111	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U112	The next question is an inquiry to the Riigikogu member Heimar Leng on 5 December last year about accidents and crime in Räpina. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U113	President-in-Office of the Council. Unfortunately, the tone of my inquiry is minor, too, in order not to say tragic, it is in the same tone as Mr Stalnukhin's speech. The rules of procedure of the Riigikogu are such that it takes a month or more to answer questions, which is why the public has often forgotten the events reflected in the inquiry at the time of reply, as new events have quickly picked up. Nevertheless, I hope that the Minister will answer these questions today, as they also relate to people's lives, the people who have died and the increasing crime in Estonia. This is not a personal question to me; this question is motivated by the appeal of the people of Põlva County, my constituents. That's why the inquiry was made. I will read the beginning of this appeal: 'The inhabitants of Põlva County have recently been disturbed in Räpina rural municipality (This address was submitted at the beginning of December last year. H.L.) about accidents and the increase in crime among young people. ' It was a quote from the conversion. As we know, several people in this area have fallen into open sewers and have died as a result. The local residents are amazed at how dangerous wells in Räpina rural municipality in the south of Põlva County can be unhosted and unsupervised. In addition to these incidents, the public in Räpina municipality has been shocked by the cruel crime committed by schoolchildren against a helpless man, during which local school students showed extreme cruelty, beat the poorest of the person, and repeatedly stabbed him. The man almost died. The man lying in the pool of blood was miraculously found, and the ambulance took him to the hospital, but still, I think he's gonna be a life-long invalid. That's the question about the municipality, the municipality of Räpina. Already the previous speaker said this, and in recent days last year's statistics have also been published, which shows that crime is growing rapidly in Estonia and the number of road fatalities has increased rapidly, not to mention the number of other victims. I hope that the Minister for the Interior will take this question seriously, despite the fact that he is on a busy day, there is a need to deal with residence permits and fireworks. But I still hope to get serious answers for the people of Põlva County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U114	I would like to ask the honourable Minister of the Interior to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question concerns statistics on the growth of crime in the country. The situation is now the other way around, good inquisitor! Statistics show that the overall number of crimes is decreasing all the time and has steadily decreased. If, for example, the total number of crimes registered in Estonia in 2010 was 48340, then last year it was, according to current data, more detailed statistics, less than 43000, which means a reduction of nearly 5 000 recorded crimes. This is a significant reduction. In particular, 748 crimes were registered in Põlva County in 2011, but in 2010 812, which means that last year the crime rate in Põlva County decreased by 64 crime facts, i.e. by about 9%, compared to 2010. Indeed, it is with regret that violence has increased in 2011. The main cause of serious crimes against individuals has been domestic strife, and a number of crimes against individuals have a connection to close relationship violence. At the same time, it can be noted that the police are actively involved in the development plan for reducing violence in the implementation of activities aimed at reducing domestic violence. In addition to dealing with cases of domestic violence, the police are involved in prevention of domestic violence, led by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. As far as the Räpina parish is concerned, these sad events are known to the Ministry of the Interior. The Police and Border Guard Board is competent to deal specifically with these circumstances. The second question: "Do you know that the owners of the sewers have been identified and are they going to be held accountable? ' I expect the honourable questioner to have specifically taken account of the two tragic cases that took place on 23 February 2011 and 28 November 2011 in the area of Räpina. Since these are criminal cases, their proceedings are conducted by the prosecutor's office. The Public Prosecutor's Office is a government institution governed by the Ministry of Justice. However, I am happy to share with the questioner the information that has been passed on to us about these procedures. In the first case, the owner of the well has been identified in the criminal case and the South District Prosecutor's Office has sent the case to jurisdiction with a summary of the charges. The criminal proceedings of the second case, which took place on 28 November, are still ongoing and it seeks to clarify who may own the well and who has the obligation to maintain the well. No one is currently suspected of having committed a crime. Question 3: "Have you been in contact with the leaders of Räpina rural municipality and the local police in relation to these cases? 'The Police and Border Guard Board is involved in the handling of specific criminal cases. I have not been in contact with the local police or with the leaders of Räpina rural municipality in relation to their specific criminal cases. It is the duty of the Minister of Home Affairs to draw attention and direct police action as a whole, i.e. to avoid such cases occurring in different regions of the country, to do everything in his power, particularly as regards resource allocation and the setting of strategic objectives and priorities. Specific activities must be planned by the local police. As a minister, I have drawn the attention of administrative leaders to the need to deal with and actively cooperate with local authorities in preventing offences, including those related to well-holes, because there were several cases in 2011 when people were in accidents due to open wells. I have given clear guidelines to police leaders to engage more actively in preventive activities throughout the country. The resolution of the criminal event referred to by the heir must provide an answer to the question of why such an act was committed and what has contributed to it, and therefore preventative actions can be planned and carried out. Question 4: "What are the reasons for these tragic accidents and particularly sadistic acts of violence among schoolchildren? ' In the context of so-called open wells, this may be due to the reckless attitude of the landowner and, in the latter case, to the ignorance of the existence of old, so-called Soviet wells. There is, of course, no justification for such acts in the context of the act of violence mentioned in the inquiry. Unfortunately, there are people among us who do not care about other people's right to life and health, the rights that we all have. This is also the result of personal low values. Even now, police prevention focuses specifically on minors, as we can best change their behaviour and values tomorrow. Question 5: "Perhaps there has been a study of the reasons why Räpina's rural municipality has been so down lately? " It cannot be said that in Räpina, something explodingly deteriorated. The municipality of Räpina does not differ in any way from other local government units in a negative way in terms of its public policy. Unfortunately, in a short period of time, there have been a number of incidents that have apparently created such an image "emotionally." Rather, cooperation between local authorities and police can be pointed out, which suggests that everything is done to improve the legal order in the region. Question 6: "Do you think that there is enough preventive work to prevent crime and tragic accidents in Estonia? ' I could, of course, take the view that, as long as we lose even one human life as a result of a tragic accident or crime, prevention has not been enough. This is also likely to mean that in most countries of the world, this work has not been sufficient. This argument may be overly emotional and perhaps premature, because such an approach would never allow us to see any progress. Statistics show, however, that the number of victims of crimes and accidents in Estonia has decreased steadily over the last ten years. Prevention is extremely important. I have also emphasised this in all my priorities, objectives and speeches. This work can, of course, be done at both national and local level, as well as certainly at the level of other sectors of society. Year after year, prevention has become more substantial, more sustainable. It is increasingly based on statistics, concrete analysis and conclusions. When we talk about resources that are always very important (especially at the level of the Ministry of the Interior and I, as Minister of the Interior, it is important to talk about them at the strategic level), when EUR 127824 was committed to prevention in the Police and Border Guard Board in 2011, this year there is a significant increase of EUR 200000. This also means, for example, more resources to involve volunteers. The aim is to create a better network to contribute as much as possible to the activities of volunteers wishing to contribute to a safer living environment. More resources will also be devoted to combating close relationship violence, reducing risk behaviour due to alcohol and drug use and, of course, preventing juvenile offences. Question 7: 'Can we also talk about the work done by the Ministry of the Interior in these cases? " I dare say that we cannot talk about any act that the Ministry of the Interior has failed to do that could have prevented what happened in the Räpina area. Although the aim of the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, to do everything we can to ensure the safety of all people in Estonia, it is not possible to prosecute the state on a case-by-case basis. In the context of open wells, a particular landowner is responsible for the consequences of his neglect of the sources of danger. The landowner must take all measures to prevent such tragic events from occurring. Local authorities, whose sources of danger are located in their administrative territory, also play an important role here. It is the responsibility of the local authority to bring them to the attention of the landowner, where appropriate, and also to intervene directly in the elimination of sources of danger. Speaking in the context of the act of violence mentioned in the inquiry is the consequence of low personal values. Question 8: "What message would you as the Minister of the Interior convey to the Estonian public, especially to the inhabitants of Põlvamaa and Räpina rural municipalities? ' I talked quite thoroughly about the steps planned to improve prevention throughout the country, not just in Põlva County. There's a lot to talk about. As far as Põlva County is concerned, statistics confirm that there has not been a surge in the number of crimes and accidents in Põlva County, but, unfortunately, there have been three tragic events that have been integrated into this inquiry, falling into one specific period. 748 crimes were registered in Põlva County in 2011 and more than 800 in 2010, or 812 in 2010. Crime has decreased by about 9% when it comes to the number of crimes registered. For example, both in Räpina City and in the municipality, the percentage of solving crimes in both of the years examined was significantly above the E-Estonian figure (in 2010 it was 49.2 in Estonia and ended in 54.8). So it can be said that in Põlva County, including both the town and the municipality of Räpina, the crime situation is stable and the police have an overview of what is happening in the municipality. All of this will certainly not reduce the suffering suffered by the victims. Also, victim support, dealing with specific victims of crime in Estonia in recent years, I would say that in the last seven to eight years, there has been a significant change. We have a revised victim support system, a new victim assistance law has been passed. But it is quite clear that in a personal, individual and very personal approach to all victims of crime, good Northern European examples must be taken as an example in the long term. It is clear that here too, of course, as in many other areas, we have room for improvement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U116	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Questions. Initiating Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U117	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am a little surprised that you provided us with statistics that have reduced crime so quickly. I've got a different impression from the media. Okay, we can check this thing out. But let me give you a concrete example. This isn't about Räpina, I'm just taking the chance right now. In my opinion, the number of road deaths was recorded only in the press these days. The number of road deaths has increased very strongly compared to last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U118	Thank you for your question. I am happy to comment and thank you, because that is a constructive question. 2010 was quite exceptional and, in a positive way, exceptional in terms of road deaths, looking at previous years. In addition to one year's statistics, experts recommend always adding to the average for the last three years. The average number of deaths in Estonia in the last three years has been 103. 78 fatalities in 2010 were a very positive exception. Yes, last year, perhaps 2011, we could not keep this order of magnitude, such a positive fall in terms of road deaths. One reason certainly is climate conditions, road conditions, but one of the reasons for this is that traffic density increased by 16% in 2011 compared to 2010, which is also an important element, I think, in the analysis of road accidents with victims. 2010 was a very happy year for Estonia. However, we can say that 2010 was negative in terms of drowning deaths, which reached almost 100. Compared to 2010 last year, we see that we were able to reduce drowning deaths by almost half in 2011. Perhaps we have negative trends for one year, negative examples and more positive examples. I call for a sober analysis in a good way. Our concerns in 2011 were certainly traffic and drunk driving, and those were also the same violent crimes. But there are certainly many positive examples, where trends have gradually declined from year to year. You started your question with an observation of the overall number of registered crimes. The fall in the overall number of registered crimes in 2011 was dramatic. Compare 48000 registered crimes and 42,500 crimes, which we are talking about in the initial figures last year, the change is significant. Nor can it be said that there would have been some legislative decision that would dramatically have reduced the number of criminal offences registered or the registration of criminal offences in one case or another. This analysis is currently underway. It was mainly a very large drop in the number of crimes against property, which is again a positive trend. The question, I think, is very relevant and needs a more comprehensive approach. I will sum up the answer in such a way that there are certainly concerns that are being actively dealt with, where it is far from enough for us to ban anything. In combination, we need to achieve that, first of all, we can prevent one or the other from being violated. When we are talking about traffic offences, it is likely that, for example, continuous monitoring of the use of security equipment is very important. It has been done, it must be done, and it will certainly bear fruit. Of course, a great deal of attention needs to be paid to drunk driving, as alcohol is one of the most serious concerns in the event of accidents. It is not only about traffic, it is also about the area of rescue, it is also about the same drowning deaths, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U119	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a modest question in the area of statistics. It would be very interesting to know where this news about the Estonian population was published by the Ministry of the Interior (through the BNS), that the population was supposed to be 1364000 people, when the entire progressive population, headed by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Estonia, knows that in fact there are a maximum estimated 1321000 people in Estonia. Where did the difference of 43000 people come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U121	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I have not noticed the news like this myself. I assume this is population register data, but the population register is the competence of the Minister for Regional Affairs. I think that if you bring up such a difference, that question is certainly justified. I will pass this question on to the Minister for Regional Affairs, who will be able to answer you specifically whether or not this is a conflict of laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U122	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U123	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to talk to you about something else. I think I'll talk to you about the statistics a little bit later. I wanted to tell you about the parallels that have always been noticeable in our lives, and only the blind can't see them. For those of you who understand what I'm talking about, I'm just reminding you. In 1953, after Stalin's death in the Soviet Union, a large number of prisoners were given amnesty, thanks to which, thank God, millions of people were released, but among them there were also many genuine criminals out of the camps. Then there was a sudden rise in crime. At the time, the country was somewhat democratised, in any case it was no longer Stalin's Soviet Union, but it was something else. The police were cleansed and rid of those people who got bloody during Stalin's time, the frame was reinforced. By the early 1960's, it became operational, and crime was the least in the mid - 1960's throughout the history of the Soviet Union. Then there was this idea that the militants, these professionals, were too many, and they began to be laid off. But they needed to be replaced with someone, and then a new wave emerged in this movement, which was called voluntary folklore. They threw a lot of money in it. These headquarters were in every city of the Soviet Union, every district, all companies assigned their own people there, and then almost retired aunts began to look after their city. Then came the 1970s, and this whole system began to centralize, very strange figures began to appear on the board, those who thought first of all about their wallets and their personal power. Corruption occurred on a very large scale, especially in militias. The pros started disturbing everyone, and they started being expelled. By the end of the 1970's, by the early 1980's, crime was at a very high level, while the most beautiful statistics were at that time. It was always said how good it is to live, how nothing threatens. To what end, we will remember this: in the late 1980s and early 1990s there was a huge banditism, there were huge deaths, etc. Now let's draw the parallel. After regaining independence, the processes began to take place as themselves. We recall the 1950s: Cleaning, a new frame, then the idea that crime may have been eradicated and more volunteers are beginning to emerge. The Minister spoke about how volunteers should begin to improve our criminogenic situation and that more and more money will be given there. The pros will be expelled. We have a specific pretext for this: do not know the official language and go. Crime is growing, with the population declining. Considering that we now have about 100,000 fewer than ten years ago, what can these statistics show? The statistics are perfect. What it ends with can only be imagined. It ends in the same way that the previous wave ended with the sharp rise in crime as in the 1980s. It's in front of us because the professionals get rid of them and they rely on volunteers. Fighting crime isn't about volunteers, it's about cops, professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U124	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U125	The final question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, Mailis Reps, Deniss Borodichi, Rainer Vakra, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Lembit Kaljuvee and Jüri Ratas on 6 December 2011 concerning days of unpaid leave submitted by the Police and Border Guard Board. Please, the only representative of the authors of the inquiry, the good colleague, Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of the Interior! On 6 December we submitted an inquiry into unpaid leave days at the Police and Border Guard Board. The Police and Border Guard Board was merged into one agency on 1 January 2010. Since the creation of the integrated institution, this institution has been experiencing confusion both in the management of people and in the use of budgetary resources. In 2010, the employees of the PBGB had to take six days' unpaid leave because they allegedly did not have the means to pay the salary. At the same time, at the end of the year, it became clear that there were still 30 million kroons unused from the payroll fund. This money was transferred to the 2011 budget of the PBGB, arguing that at least people should not be sent on unpaid leave in 2011. However, at least in 2011 there were four days of unpaid leave in the North Prefecture. As a result, we have four questions. I must apologise for the fact that on the first question, EEK 30 million has become EUR 30 million. I believe the Ministry has understood that this is about kroons, not euro. So four questions from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U127	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior of the Speaker's Office once again to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U128	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be happy to answer you by questioning a total of four. The first question: 'How has 30 million kroons been used in the PBGB, which was transferred to the budget to avoid days of unpaid leave? " Since 2010, the PBGB transferred personnel costs of EUR 55900 to 2011 and not EEK 30 million, as stated in the inquiry. The principal amount of EUR 56000 introduced in 2011 was intended to cover the remuneration charges paid in December 2010 in January 2011. The second question: 'According to our knowledge, there were at least four days of unpaid leave in the Northern Prefecture in 2011. How many unpaid days of leave were in the overall PPP structure in 2011? ' During 2011, 14336 days of unpaid leave were taken at the PBA with the prefectures. In this context, it is important to draw the attention of good heirs to the fact that the days of unpaid leave are not only taken into account for the so-called compulsory two days of unpaid leave, the so-called "masus days," but also for unpaid leave taken at the request of the employees themselves, as well as for days of parental leave which, in substance, may be either supplementary parental leave, parental leave for the childnvalite or unpaid parental leave. In 2011, the average number of employees in the PBA was 5908 (it does not take into account persons whose employment had been suspended). Thus, an average of 2.4 days of unpaid leave per employee was taken during the year. Question three: '2012. In the national budget for 2008, the budget of the PBGB will increase by EUR 4 million. Will the funds provided for in the 2012 state budget allow you to confirm today that this year there will be no days of unpaid leave in the PPP structure? ' In 2012, the staff expenditure budget will increase by EUR 1.4 million compared to 2011. In planning the 2012 budget for staff expenditure, days of unpaid leave for the staff of the PBGB are not planned. The opt-out of days of unpaid leave is made possible by optimising the management and governance areas of the PBGB during 2011, resulting in a reduction of 138 people in the composition of the PBGB. One of the objectives of optimisation was to make support services more effective. Under the budget, the main activity of the PBGB should also be given priority over support activities. Question 4: 'The merger of three agencies into a common structural unit resulted in a large number of redundancies in the structure. How many redundancy allowances were paid in 2011 in the PBGB and how much is planned to be mobilised in the 2012 PBGB budget? ' As I pointed out in reply to the previous question, in 2011 there was a reduction in membership at the expense of the contraction of support services. In total, 131 staff members were reduced during 2011 and 3 of them remained on the sick list before the date of release, so the final bill is still outstanding for them, as those on the sick leave cannot be dismissed. Thus, the compensation for the redundancy of 128 officials, together with the holiday allowance, which includes employer's taxes, amounted to approximately EUR 435000. The 2012 budget of the Police and Border Guard Board does not envisage separate funds for redundancy benefits. As a result of the redundancies, staff expenditure in the area of the PBGB administration was reduced by around EUR 1 million by 2012 and by around EUR 0.6 million by the redundancies and reorganisations of general management. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U129	Thank you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr Kalle Laane, a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! I am somewhat puzzled by the figures you brought about about the amounts that were transferred from 2010 to 2011. You claim it was EUR 55900, or more than EEK 800,000. At the beginning of 2011, there was Marko Pomerants, the then Minister of the Interior, who spoke about other figures. He said the same thing that was written in our inquiry. My question: have the figures you presented to us today been presented to you, the Ministry of the Interior, by the Police Department, or have the Ministry of the Interior taken them out of the budget lines, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U131	Thank you! These figures are presented here in cooperation with the PBA and the Ministry of the Interior. That's the way they've been brought out. In particular, this amount was intended to cover taxes. This amount, EUR 56000, is what it is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U132	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I'm opening negotiations. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U133	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get back to the statistics. It turns out the Minister of the Interior doesn't know what news his department is producing. This news came out on January 4 with a reference to BNS. I personally read it at www.stolitsa.ee. So, imagine there's some kind of questioning going on. They come to visit the family and ask her how many pans she has in the kitchen. He's sure to say three, because he knows. They're asking her husband. It doesn't bother to know things like that, says four. They're asking the neighbor, it says two. There's nothing weird about that. What does it matter how many pans this family has in the kitchen? But it gets weird when people ask how many children there are in the family. The mother of the family says three. It would be very strange if the father of the family were to question and say four. A neighbor might say two, once again, there would be nothing weird about it. When it comes to the number of inhabitants, is it an insignificant matter like the number of pans, or is it still a vital thing like the number of children? We have the Statistical Office. On the basis of the estimated figures for the 2000 census, taking into account the figures for both deaths and births, the Agency has issued a reference figure of 1321000. In this situation, it doesn't even matter what the neighbor says. I am now naming the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States of America, which announced in October in its official publication to the world that there are 1283000 inhabitants in Estonia, or 38000 fewer than we have now officially written. But it is very and very strange that the Ministry of the Interior, who should know where these figures are taken from and from, reports that the population is actually 43000 people larger than the calculated population of Statistics Estonia. There are, in my opinion, two options. One way is that no one really knows or wants to know, figures are taken from the ceiling, and no one thinks about what he does or what he announces. There's another way. We're in the middle of a census, it's in electronic form. I should turn to those who curate it and say, "Don't overdo it,'because if they get the population of a million and a half, no one will believe it anyway. When figures such as 1364000 are published, it seems to me that this is a small way of preparing the number they want to show to make life seem much better than it really is and that the situation is not as catastrophic as it is in remote cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U134	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U135	After my hammer strike, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U136	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it may already be more or less official to announce the beginning of another silent era in Estonia. In a small town in Estonia, I have a mayor who is familiar with the power coalition in no way. There's already been a couple of funny cases about him, but they're gone like bubbles. There's another funny thing going on right now, absolute bullshit. It will be made clear to the man at the level of an important department of the Ministry of Interior that he should leave himself, because this work will be completed anyway, sooner or later. Consider which way we are going, consider that the current power coalition has nothing to fear in the sense that 26% of those who went to vote in the last Riigikogu elections (sorry who voted because they did not go to vote, they voted at home) voted electronically, consider how quickly all these electronic data were destroyed. When I told my colleagues about this in Hungary, Poland and America, they did not believe that this could be the case. They thought that electronic voting meant something that you would come to the polling station and vote there, not by writing a manual bulletin, but by using a machine gun, but by doing it in the polling station. The power coalition has nothing to fear. The more time goes on, the higher the rate of support. The data will be destroyed again. We're in the process of securing power. Ladies and gentlemen, who should be sitting on my right hand right now and nobody is in this Chamber! Please remember the end of the first silent era for Estonia! The fact that you are trying to bury democracy, the fact that you are acting to your political competitors as was the custom in Hitler's time in Germany (no big difference here), does not give you or our country much hope. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-09_U137	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.49 p.m.
