ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Very honourable Prime Minister! We will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. I request the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate two draft laws. First, the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans and the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft act ratifying the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U3	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I am passing a draft decision proposing to change the composition of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act, because one member of the committee, Andrus Saare, has left the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U5	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, and the issue is the impact of the opening up of the electricity market on the household consumer. On 1 January 2013, the Estonian electricity market will be opened to the full. This means that households also have to buy electricity on the free market. However, even though the market is opening up, increased competition does not mean that domestic consumers would face a cheaper price. On the contrary, it can be seen that the end price of electricity for the consumer is increasing, as the price of Nord Pool's power exchange is much more expensive than the price of the captive market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U7	I'm sorry, Kadri Simson! Ladies and gentlemen, There's quite a buzz in the hall. We can't hear the waitress. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U8	I am pleased to see that there was already a lively debate on the questioning on the first bench. Thinking about it is always welcome. But when it comes to household customers, opening up the electricity market also brings a lot of confusion. Under the Electricity Market Act, the following year the consumer will have the opportunity to change the electricity provider, even every month. Such an option should ensure full competition in the electricity market and, as a result, it is almost always possible for consumers to choose the most advantageous electricity provider. But Eesti Energia, who has enjoyed a monopoly on the electricity market so far, is considering offering a fixed-price package to ordinary consumers from next year, which obliges customers to be connected to Eesti Energia for at least six months. If half a year doesn't last, we can expect contractual penalties. With regard to this situation, we have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, which I cannot read out in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has taken proceedings in the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act, launched on 16 May, and appointed it as the lead committee of the Social Affairs Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the European Commission's communication "Fighting crime in the digital age: setting up a European Cybercrime Centre" presented on 24 May and appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the European Commission's communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. June 7th at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has also forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 25 May Estonia submitted its views on the draft European Union legislation on ship recycling to the European Union Commission and appointed the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft European Union legislation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. June 7th at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 85 members are registered, 16 members of the Riigikogu are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to put on the agenda. The agenda for the 16th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu has been distributed to everyone. I am voting on this week's agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 85 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The agenda for this week's work is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U10	We're gonna get on today's agenda. There are nine inquiries on the agenda. First of all, members of the Riigikogu Rannar Vassilyev, Helmen Küti, Eiki Nestor, Kalvi Tul, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Indrek Saare, Heljo Pikhofi, Karel Rüütli, Andres Anvelt, Kajar Lemberi and Rein Randver were asked on 5 April 2012 to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip about the government's financial policy choices in the light of the spring economic forecast. As the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Eleven Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to the good Prime Minister, driven by the economic forecast presented in the spring. This inquiry has been handed over on 5 April. Some questions have been answered by the budgetary strategy, but quite a number of issues remain topical. Let me introduce them briefly. Public debt will increase for us both this year and next year, both as a result of the economic forecast and as a result of the budgetary strategy. Public sector reserves are decreasing. The only thing that can be said positive is our social security funds, especially the unemployment fund. This means that we plan to raise more money with unemployment insurance in the future than the necessary expenditure at the unemployment fund. In other words, one labour tax, unemployment insurance, we will continue to keep it higher than we really need. The questions also concern the realisation of potential risks, since, as the Ministry of Finance acknowledges from the economic forecast, it cannot be excluded that this year the budget deficit could be higher than 3%. The increase in housing costs is also very important for us. We can see that inflation increases in both heating and electricity costs. We're wondering if the government is planning to do anything. We will also ask for an assessment of the forecast made by the Ministry of Finance for this year. Last spring, the Ministry of Finance forecast growth of 4% for this year; today it has had to adjust it to 1.7%. Let us ask the Prime Minister's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U12	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'The economic forecast acknowledges that the fiscal position is deteriorating and the balance is only reached in 2016 and that the budget is also in deficit despite projected economic growth. Today's government union programme states that the budget will be transferred to the structural surplus by 2014 at the latest and that the surplus will be kept in all growth years. How does the government plan to implement this? " According to the 2012 spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the structural balance is not significantly in deficit between 2012 and 2016, amounting to only 0.5 to 0.2% of GDP and reaching a surplus of 0.6% by 2016. However, the independent economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance does not say budget policy objectives to the government. These are confirmed by the government's state budget strategy. According to the fiscal strategy adopted by the government in April 2013‐2016, we will reach a structural surplus in 2013, i.e. a year earlier than the government's programme, and a nominal surplus in 2014. In order to cover the 0.3% of GDP gap between the forecast and the target, the government intends, among other things, to increase excise duties on alcohol and to implement measures to increase tax compliance. The possibility of increasing the net indebtedness of local governments by more than 60% of the operating income is also postponed until 2016. These measures and their impacts can be further explored in the National Budget Strategy for 2013-2016 and the Stability Programme for 2012. Keeping public finances in order plays a very important role in improving people's lives in the long term. The current debt crisis in Europe shows that the fruitage of letting the budget out of control will not be paid by the next generation or by the next generation, but will arrive much earlier. The second question: 'The public sector's debt-to-GDP ratio will increase to 8.8% this year and to 11.3% next year. The debt-to-debt ratio will remain the same until 2016. What causes the debt burden to increase in a context of economic growth? 'The increase in the general government debt burden is due to both the deficit and financing operations, such as the increase in the capital of Eesti Energia and the contributions of the European Stability Mechanism. In addition, the debt burden is rising due to Estonia's accession to the European Financial Stability Fund. According to the government debt calculation methodology, EFSF liabilities are also partly reflected in Estonia's debt ratio and have an impact of 2.8% of GDP on average over the forecast period. Question 3: 'Public sector reserves will continue to decline until the end of the forecast period, despite economic growth. The government union programme states: 'We will increase reserves that will allow possible years of decline to survive in the future. " Has the government withdrawn from the principle of monetary policy? " It is unwise to start restoring reserves in a situation where the budget is still in deficit. The aim of the 2013-2016 National Budget Strategy is to increase the share of reserves in GDP from 2016. In nominal terms, the general government's liquid financial assets will increase from 2015 onwards. The slight decrease in reserves before this is also due to financing operations and budget deficits, as mentioned in the previous paragraph. Question 4: 'Most of the reserves in the coming years are made up of social security funds (sickness fund and unemployment fund), with an increase in their share of all reserves. Does the government intend to continue its policy of keeping unemployment insurance contributions above one labour tax higher than the unemployment rate would expect? ' First of all, unemployment insurance contributions will now be reduced to 3% next year, on the proposal of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Secondly, the share of social security funds in reserves increases because other reserves are used by the government to cover both deficit and financing transactions. The size of the social security funds must be large enough, and it must also grow moderately, because in a situation where the average wage is rising, higher benefits will have to be paid in the event of a possible next crisis than today. Question 5: 'The forecast recognises that if risks materialise, we may be at risk of a budget deficit exceeding 3% of GDP in 2012. Does the government plan to reduce costs or increase taxes if risks materialise? When the first one, which ones? If so, will the increase in consumption taxes, as in previous years, be considered? 'The state budget revenue for the first four months of this year has been better than expected, which suggests that the fiscal position will not differ significantly from the base scenario if the macroeconomic risk scenario materialises in the second half of the year. It has to be said that there are no signs that the second half of the year should get any worse than the previous months, but the months so far have been much better than our forecasts. Even if, for some reason, the budget deficit were to exceed 3% of GDP, nearly half of this would amount to investments linked to the sale of international emission quotas, i.e. 1.5%. This part of the deficit due to temporary and exceptional circumstances is not a structural problem under the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact, which should be corrected at all costs. Question 6: 'The component of living costs (including heating and electricity) in inflation is increasing. Is and how the government plans to manage the increase in home expenses? " The increase in housing costs is largely due to the rise in oil prices. The prices of heat and gas follow the change in oil prices with some delay and have therefore increased both in Estonia and in the euro zone. In order to save home expenses, the government initiated a program of insulation of apartment buildings and private houses through the Foundation KredEx. The amount of the grants is planned to be EUR 30 million. However, instead of home expenses, it is more important to monitor changes in consumer prices as a whole, as some goods and services prices have fallen. For example, communications services were 8% cheaper in April than a year ago. Consumer prices as a whole have risen by 4.3% in the first four months of this year, which has been compensated by faster wage growth. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the average payout increased by 6.8% in the first quarter of 2012. Real wage growth is expected to continue in the coming years. On 1 April, the old-age pension was increased by 4,4%. Question 7: 'In the spring of last year, the Ministry of Finance forecast the real growth of the economy this year to be 4%. Today, he is forced to admit that growth expectations have fallen to 1.7%. How do you assess the accuracy of the economic forecast at the time? " The accuracy of the spring economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance can be assessed well. In the spring of last year, all Estonian GDP growth forecasts for 2012 remained at 4 to 5%. The lowest forecast was on IMF (3.7%) and the highest forecast was on Danske Bank (5.1%). Both OECD and Eesti Pank's forecasts were more optimistic than those of the Ministry of Finance and by autumn the IMF also raised its forecast to 4%. Thus, the Ministry of Finance's forecast was one of the most conservative and, as it has been shown afterwards, the Ministry deviated from the consensus of the time in the right direction. Developments in the external environment are an important prerequisite for forecasting the Estonian economy. While our export partners expected 2.5% economic growth by this year in spring last year, they have reduced their growth expectations to 1% by this spring. Changing this fact is not within the power of the Estonian Government, but its impact on our economic growth is inevitable. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that the year is not yet over and that more positive developments are also possible. According to preliminary data from Statistics Estonia, the Estonian economy grew by 3.9% in the first quarter compared to the previous year. According to the recently published OECD forecast, the Estonian economy will grow by 2.2% this year. Question 8: 'Considering the above question, will the government be cautious about the 3% growth forecast next year? ' Certainly takes a cautious view, because the ability to see clearly is not given to anyone and the uncertainty in Europe is greater than in Estonia. It also adds uncertainty to our growth opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U14	Thank you. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U15	Thank you. The Unemployment Insurance Board has expressed the opinion that today's unemployment fund reserves are sufficient in case a new crisis calls for disbursements that will inevitably increase as the crisis breaks out. Consequently, I have the question: do we now use the reserves of the unemployment fund on a target basis to make the necessary payments at some point, or rather to improve the budgetary position of the entire public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U16	The unemployment fund's reserves are still collected in order to be able to meet the obligations of the unemployment fund in the future. We may be optimistic, but we have a relatively sad memory of this optimism from the past. In retrospect, it has to be recognised that the reduction of the total payment rate of the unemployment fund to 0.9% was an error. If this mistake had not been made, there would have been more reserves in good years and we would not have needed to increase the total payment rate to 4.2% during the crisis. So at this stage, there is certainly a need for more resources to be raised in the unemployment fund over a relatively long period than is needed for current payments. But since reserves have now grown enough, the pace of collection can be slowed down. We have discussed this repeatedly in the coalition, and now the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has reached the same conclusion: we want to reduce the total payment rate of unemployment insurance to 3.0% next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U17	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U18	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Estonian pensions have been frozen for years and this has also caused much dissatisfaction. This year's budget was now increased by 4.4%. We know we could have raised 5.4%. However, OECD studies show, for example, that nearly half of pensioners live in relative poverty, especially those living alone in apartment buildings. Average pension is quite low, 272 euros, 305 euros is average old-age pension, early retirement is extremely low. Compared to Greek pensions, which is 80.0% of the last salary...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U19	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U20	...this is, of course, ridiculous. Why do we not value pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U21	Pensions can be paid just as much as taxpayers' hard-working hands have paid money to the pension fund. You have provided a number of figures on your question. At least one of them was definitely wrong, it is currently an average pension of EUR 305. After an increase of 4,4%, this claim is no longer true. But with pensions, they can be paid out as much as there's money in the pension fund. It is true that we are paying more now than we have in the pension fund. We not only use the funds from social tax to pay pensions, but we also pay extra to pensions from other revenue. Today's pension size describes our country's financial capacity. Living beyond power, taking in debts to pay pensions is certainly not the solution. What this has led to is that we have already seen in many parts of Europe. This choice is certainly not Estonia's choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U22	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In good times, you agreed to a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions and, in difficult times, you were forced to raise the tax for entrepreneurs and workers in an already difficult situation. Here the parallel is that in good times the state invested heavily, did not contribute enough to reserves, and in bad times had to brake and cool the economy. Do you acknowledge that your optimism has occasionally caused great damage to the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U24	As regards the optimistic downgrading of the unemployment contribution rate, the answer has already been said: yes, this should not have been done. As far as reserves are concerned, you will not find another country like the Republic of Estonia in the European Union. Estonian government debt is the lowest in the European Union. As of 31 December last year, our government debt was 6.0% of gross domestic product. In order to create a reference point, it should be noted that it is 160% in Greece, and it is 120% in several countries. A country with a government debt of less than 10% will not find you in Europe. We already have Luxembourg at 20%, but 6% is something completely unprecedented. I am pleased that in good times we have collected significant reserves for our country. I am pleased that we did not live in debt in previous years, and that is why our public finances are one of the best-off public finances in Europe. You know perfectly well that the collection of reserves for our country was not easy. Reserves mainly met between 2002 and 2007. In 2002, the amount added to the reserves was quite small, but in 2006 thanks to the best finance minister in the world, who is sitting in the middle of you and in 2007 thanks to the best European finance minister, who will soon come before you, we have grown reserves very significantly. Let it be recalled once again that we had the fastest increase in reserves in 2007, i.e. when so many of you completely misjudged the situation, you spoke about the huge crisis that has hit Estonia, and then when I said that if it was a crisis, then it was only in this crisis that I wanted to live in. Now, in 2007, our economy grew by 7.5%. Unemployment fell, reaching its lowest level in March and June 2008. And which, most important in the context of your question, put the largest sum in the Republic of Estonia into reserves throughout its entire existence, throughout its history in 2007. The general government surplus amounted to EEK 6 billion in 2007. Would we like to live in a crisis where the economy is growing by 7.5%, where unemployment is 4.7% and where 6 billion kroons can be placed in reserves? I'd love to. I imagine that there is no Prime Minister in Europe who would say something else. So we've done well in public finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U25	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the Prime Minister's replies and the budgetary strategy published in the meantime, the warlocks are still concerned. The continuing concern is that public debt is on a growing trend, while the amount of reserves collected is on a declining trend. The good Prime Minister said here that the plan is to rebuild reserves in 2015, which means that the restoration of reserves will be the responsibility of the next government. All this despite the fact that according to the economic forecast, the Ministry of Finance envisages economic growth in Estonia in the future. If we look at the position of net assets in both the economic forecast and the budgetary strategy, we will also have a negative position in the coming years. As mentioned earlier, only the unemployment fund, whose reserves are really growing, will stand out in the 'good light', which will also significantly improve the budgetary position, but will have to be paid by both workers and employers as unemployment insurance contributions. On the one hand, while we declare that we would like to reduce taxes on labour, for example 1% income tax in 2015, the government still provides that the unemployment insurance contribution that an employee will have to pay on his salary in the same way and, on the other hand, the employer's staff costs should still be higher than the country actually needs. Nor did we receive an answer, or rather an exhaustive answer, on whether and if so, on how inflation is expected to reduce the housing cost component, which has continued to increase, although one of the main electoral promises of a member of a government coalition called the IRL was the reduction of home expenses. Demonstratively, the land tax will be reduced, but there is no solution to curb the price increase of heating, electricity, for the much more important components of home costs. Today Delfi published an overview of electricity prices over the last seven years. It was recognised that the biggest electricity price raiser has been the tax element in this. In seven years, taxes and various costs imposed by the state have increased by a total of 204%, which has been the largest component of electricity prices. So "demonstrative" measures will continue to be implemented, but there would also be a greater need for substantive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U27	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U28	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here with a short reply. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today is a historic moment, and you are fortunate to be there. You will see and hear the myth. You will remember the conditions under which the Prime Minister said that, if this is a crisis, he would like to live in it, and how shamefully that sentence sounded in the next two years. And today, it's a rare natural phenomenon that's starting to fall from the sky into frogs or squirrels. Today you see it, you can listen to it. Today a new life began in this sentence, he becomes progressive. It's always been in history that somewhere there's this point where there's a turn. We got lucky. We heard today how it's gonna sound in a year, ten or twenty. All right, I said, "Short line, let's keep it short."
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U29	Thank you. Would Aivar Sõerd like a word? I'm sorry, Marika Tuus-Song was in line before! There was a little bit of a mix-up with the button. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'm coming with a little line, too. Today we heard this old talk about how well our economy grew in 2007. It can go to infinity. I recall that in 2006, when Edgar Savisaar was Minister of the Economy, the economy grew by 11%. However, the Prime Minister did not want to say that since 2007 the economy started to fall and fell by 20% in two years, which has not even occurred in Europe during the Great Wars, even during the Great Depression in 1932 the economy fell by only 13%. We all remember how we were promised a soft landing. As far as the Centre Party raised questions about how the economy would fall, we were still told that the crisis would resolve very well and nothing bad would happen. Yes, it did! I would like to remind you here of the position of economic Master Einar Eiland that the price increase has been the basis of our economic growth and that Estonia Nokia, the government, has benefited from it. If we put inflation and GDP on the growth curve side by side, it turns out that in the last ten years, ordinary citizens have not experienced any economic success. Growth is only 1.3% higher than the price increase in ten years, so inflation has zeroed all our growth. The citizen has not been able to buy more with this money, and what has actually happened is simply a very desperate pursuit of European prices. So the loser has been a common consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U31	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U32	I would also make a brief reply on the basis of what has been heard in this Chamber today, and on the basis of the fresh information we received about the Latvian state when we visited Latvia in Seim last week with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Latvian state is making very bold decisions now, making tax quite vigorously and making value added tax, although their VAT remains higher than ours. Latvia is certainly an example of countries in the European Union whose consumption taxes are significantly higher than the average in the European Union and the tax burden is very low. At the same time, Latvia is again a good example of how a country in difficulty was forced to turn to the international community for financial assistance and has put its finances in order with this financial assistance. And I think it's largely because of my tax system. The difference between fiscal policy and our fiscal policy is perhaps that, just as we want to achieve the fiscal balance in Latvia as quickly as possible, and they have indeed already reduced and reduced the deficit vigorously, but they do not yet dare to think about building up reserves in the near future. However, we have set a clear objective to start collecting reserves as soon as possible. Our own new experience showed how important it was that there were reserves in the crisis years. The opposition parties are concerned that we have too much deficit and just as there is a risk that it will increase. We can do very much ourselves to improve the financial situation. However, we will be discussing the amendment of the Income Tax Act, which has been initiated by the Sots here tomorrow. If the Riigikogu supports this bill, it will introduce tax exemptions, differences and cost to the state budget in tens of millions of euros. Of course, we all like to give gifts and benefits, but we see in the example of many countries what these concessions and gifts have led to in the elections. Our clear advantage is the conservative nature of the government and the responsible attitude towards tax policy. We do not have to pay 5% or even 7% of GDP for interest on loans; we can use this cost for our economy and even for pensions. So I believe that we are on the right track, and the state budget strategy, on which today's inquiry was made, merely confirms that the government can maintain public finances and look responsibly to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U33	Thank you very much. Would the Prime Minister still like to make a speech? Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U34	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I was driven back by Mikhail Stalnukhin, who unfortunately is not in the Chamber again. It has to be said that this famous sentence, 'If it is a crisis, then it is only in this crisis that I would like to live in' was said at the press conference on 7 February 2008. It is still available in the press conference verbatim reports, accessible to everyone, completely verifiable. That's what I said about 2007. None of you are willing to say at the moment that the economic growth in 2007 was really critical, but 7.5% per year. None of you are willing to say that the level of unemployment of 4.7% in Estonia was a real crisis, and none of you are willing to say that 6 billion kroons to reserves, well that is still a level during the crisis. We did not have a wage level in 2007, and when we talk about the next or the next question, then also in 2008, especially at the beginning of this, until February, certainly not any time of crisis. It was not a question of whether there was a crisis or whether it was not a crisis, whether you admit that there is a crisis or not, although for many it was a vital question of how so, everyone will see that there is a crisis, but the Prime Minister will not recognise the crisis. Not recognising the crisis or not recognising it was important, but those who said that there was a crisis in the country wanted to revive our economy by introducing reserves in our crisis. If we had done so, according to the examples of our neighbours, the government debt ratio in Estonia would probably have increased to 20% of GDP by now. It's a very big growth. This would have been extremely burdensome for the Estonian state if we had been in 2008; these demands had already started to revive our economy by using reserves at the end of 2007. Be precise about history, be honest! The budget deficit. This is now the answer to the questioners. After all, Estonia can be blamed for the fact that, yes, you see, they are still forecasting deficits and, although the economy is growing, they are unable to predict budget surpluses. Yeah, I'm not. Last year we also forecast a deficit, but last year ended with a surplus of 1.0% for Estonia, a surplus of the general government in relation to gross domestic product. It is probably not very inappropriate to say that it was the largest and one of the very few budgetary surpluses in the European Union. Also in the year before last, in 2010, we predicted a deficit, but ended the financial year with a surplus of 0.1%. It seems that the surplus was even smaller in Estonia than the surplus of the general government in 2010. So I will stick to what has been said earlier: our public finances have been well maintained. The insulation of homes and the lowering of home expenses, I thought, in a relatively exhaustive way, I spoke. I also talked about how we have financed the insulation of homes through KredEx. That's a sure way to lower home expenses. In the case of electricity, it must be said that...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U35	I'm sorry. Would you like three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U36	No, thank you! In Estonia, the electricity is in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U37	We'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U38	... after the cheapest second place in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U39	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, address on the spot for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Like I said, mythology is coming! Either way, I'm not the one who's gonna fight the windmills. That is why I have a proposal to join it. We choose a settlement, a village somewhere in Central or South Estonia, where there is no policeman anymore, there is no school, there are no rescuers, there is not even a store, there is no vault twice a week, there is no ATM, there is nothing. In the middle of this village, we place a monument to Andrus Ansip, upon which we write these golden words in golden letters: 'If this is a crisis, I would like to live in it. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U41	Thank you. Since the addressee of the inquiry usually receives the closing statement and you did not have a statement registered, do you want a reply on the subject, Mr Lenk? Please reply from the site for up to two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U42	I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech, and I just want to add to it for the sake of historical truth and for the sake of the verbatim. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, it was true that you said these words 'if it is a crisis, I want to live in this crisis' last year, i.e. for 2007, but let us not forget that then there was a fierce struggle in this Chamber in the light of the approaching economic crisis. The opposition warned you repeatedly and repeatedly, Prime Minister, that there was a crisis coming, we were going down, and it was in response to these warnings that you came to the remote and said: 'If it is a crisis, I would like to live in it. ' You were living in the past at that moment, Prime Minister, and you did not foresee that there would be a major economic crisis that we fell into with great urgency. At the end of that year, unemployment started to rise at a terrible rate. And then when it came to the question of negative extra budgets, you said one more historical words: 'As long as I am Prime Minister, the negative budget will not be adopted in this Chamber. " After you adopted two negative budgets. That was the case with the crisis you would like to live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U43	Thank you very much. That concludes the negotiations and the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U44	Next are the members of the Riigikogu Jevgeni Ossinovski, Heljo Pikhofi, Neeme Suur, Kajar Lemberi, Eiki Nestor, Indrek Saare, Kalvi Tuld, Rannar Vassilyev, Helmen Küti and Andres Anvelt's inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on 5 April 2012 about the success of integration policy. On behalf of the inquisitors, I ask for the floor of Evgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the Prime Minister can start talking about wages, I would like to ask him some questions about the success of integration policy. They are driven by the recent'monitoring the integration of Estonian society in 2011'. On the one hand, there is certainly positive news about both the increased sense of country and the improved language skills of the Russian-speaking population, and on the other hand, the greater openness of Estonians to the involvement of Russian-speaking fellow citizens can be highlighted. On the other hand, there are a number of very worrying facts and negative trends. Despite some sector-specific progress, the study shows that the aggregated integration index put together by scientists has remained moderately, strongly or fully integrated at the 2008 level, or close to 61%. This means that nearly 40% of the Russian-speaking population are still weakly integrated or not fully integrated, despite the growing growth of people born and raised here. There is also a new trend of stratification in integration that cannot be overlooked. People with better language skills, wealthier and more active families have become such a successful citizenry, while many others from less wealthy and less active families are becoming a group of people excluded and alienated from the country. The study confirms that the gap between these groups has not narrowed but rather deepened. For example, the proportion of people who are not fully integrated has increased almost twice, from 7.5% to 13%. Speaking of the increasing proportion of people born and raised here, Estonia's integration policy has been placing a great deal of emphasis on language learning over the years, especially among young people, in the hope of raising good Estonian citizens of all young people born, educated and raised here and solving the problem of integration by changing natural generations. However, it has become apparent that around 20% of the 15-29 year-olds are those with very good language skills, but, to put it mildly, they are distrustful of the state institutions. In the same age group, only one fifth have successfully integrated and 45% have little or no integration. The study does not suggest that the continuation of the current approach to integration policies will change these developments in the future, rather the opposite. We would like to know from the Prime Minister what conclusions the government under his leadership has drawn from this monitoring of integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U46	Thank you. I ask the speaker to respond to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U47	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'As a Head of Government who has been responsible for fulfilling the 2008-2013 integration plan throughout the period, how do you assess the results of its implementation in the light of this integration monitoring? ' I generally appreciate the developments that have taken place to be satisfactory. Between 2008 and 2011, the share of fully or strongly integrated people has increased from 27.5% to 32%. The wish for Estonian citizenship has grown from 51% to 64% among Estonian residents with undefined citizenship. Estonia's only home country has grown from 66% to 76%. There are still a lot of positive developments, but the interest of the state in ordering such monitoring is, of course, also to find out how and what can be done even better. Always want to go faster and more. Integration, however, is a very long-term process, with results not coming overnight, but in decades. The second question: 'The authors of integration monitoring believe that integration policy has been the predominant so-called liberal integration model, leaving responsibility for social coping, including linguistic adaptation and political integration, primarily to the individual. This has also led to stratification in the results of integration. What adjustments in government activities do you consider appropriate during the next integration programme period? " In Estonia, the personal will and activity of a person in this direction are considered a prerequisite for successful integration. I can't imagine it any other way. Free will and the individual's desire to be integrated in society are inevitable prerequisites. As far as corrections are concerned, the process of drawing up a new sectoral development plan is only just under way and a number of discussions and consultations with target and stakeholders, experts and practitioners are under way in order to plan activities with a greater and more effective impact and more responsiveness to the needs of the target group. It is clear that each subsequent integration plan must take into account the experience and developments that have taken place in the previous period. The third question: 'The specific problem is the fragmentation of the whole area and the weakness of coordination between ministries, which has reduced the effectiveness of the measures. The authors of the study claim that 'the lack of political will and the resulting determination has reduced the effectiveness of existing integration plans and made their implementation fragmented'. You have been doubtful about the restoration of the institution of the Minister for Population. How does the government intend to improve coordination in order to improve the effectiveness of measures? One of the main messages of the authors of integration monitoring is that immigrants and their descendants cannot be considered a subject of homogeneous integration. Integration is not just the sphere of activity of one ministry, but is closely linked to the various fields of ministry. The dispersal of centralisation and inter-institutional cooperation will be coordinated by the Steering Committee and the Steering Group of the Integration Plan, composed of representatives of five ministries and related public authorities. Question 4: 'A significant proportion of young people born and raised in Estonia are not of Estonian citizenship. I wouldn't even like to read it out, because it is a big mistake for you to interpret the survey from 15 to 19-year-olds who are not Estonian citizens, with 12% being Russian citizens. What adjustments should be made to Estonian citizenship policy to solve this problem? ' With this question, you have, unfortunately, used statistics without delving into it and faultily. According to the data of the Police and Rescue Board in February 2012, the total number of persons aged 15 to 19 in Estonia was 69670, 94.8% of whom were nationals of the Republic of Estonia. This means that 5.2% of 15 to 19-year-olds living in Estonia are not citizens of the Republic of Estonia, not 19%, as you said. There are 1059 persons with undefined citizenship, 1.5%. There are 1975 persons with Russian nationality, 2.8%, not 12%, as you said. There are 610 persons with citizenship in other countries, or 0.9%. You seem to have taken the following section in the context of integration monitoring when you asked your question: 'Estonian Statistics show that in 2001 there were young people of other nationalities aged 15 to 19 16324 among the residents of Estonia. According to the Ministry of the Interior, 3024 of these young people, or 19%, did not have citizenship, including 1975, or 12%, had preferred Russian citizenship. ' Perhaps 12% of the citizens of the Russian Federation are the percentage of other nationalities living in Estonia among young people aged 15 to 19 and not the percentage of the total population of their respective age, as stated in the questions. This is a significant difference, though, whether to talk about other ethnicities and the importance of some parameters among them or in the whole age group throughout Estonia. Question 5: 'In particular, access to refresher and retraining combined with the development of language skills is a problem for older people. To what extent does the Ministry of Social Affairs address this problem, and what other measures should be taken? " Elderly are a heterogeneous target group in which each person has his or her education, career, and obstacles to work, making an individual approach important and necessary. Labour market services are provided on the basis of an individual job search plan. The plan is drawn up by the unemployed together with the unemployment fund. The most suitable labour market services are chosen according to the obstacles that the unemployed face in finding a job. Older people have less importance than other age groups in terms of education than work experience acquired during their lives. For example, the unemployment rate for older people with the first level of education (persons aged 55 to 64) was 17.5% in 2010, 17.3% for those with the second level of education, and 14.4% for older people with the third level of education. By comparison, people aged 25 to 34 with an unemployment rate of 33.6% for those with the first level of education, 19.4% for those with the second level of education and 5.3% for those with the third level of education. As older people have often worked in one place for a long time, they may lack the skills and knowledge they need to apply for a new job, as well as the various counselling services provided by the unemployment fund. In the area of administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, older people are provided with refresher and retraining in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Employment Services and Benefits Act of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. Labour market training is an occupational training for the unemployed, which acquires or develops professional or other skills that facilitate the application of the person to work. If it is found that insufficient knowledge of the Estonian language hinders the implementation of the job search plan, the corresponding training of the unemployed person will be directed towards vocational language learning. In addition to language training, the unemployment fund organises specialized training courses, such as customer service courses, along with an Estonian language learning module, introduces the possibilities of e-learning to improve language skills independently and cooperates in projects that offer training in Estonian language to the unemployed. The ability to communicate in Estonian is also supported by participating in working clubs and work practice service. Question 6: 'In East-Virumaa, most of the indicators of the integration index are considerably lower than in other parts of Estonia. The Government has adopted the Ida-Viru Action Plan, whose various measures are also aimed at promoting integration. Which measures are already being implemented and are there plans to extend the range of regional integration measures? ' In the Ida-Viru County Action Plan, 20 actions are directly linked to the objectives of the integration plan. Most of them are continuous or continuous activities, such as immersion in language, education of teachers and language, support for patriotic education in schools, support for participation of Russian cultural collections at major Estonian cultural events. They will be given opportunities to participate in joint events, encouraging communication at citizens' level, supporting important cultural and sporting events in Ida-Virumaa, ensuring the availability of the Estonian information space in Ida-Virumaa, including Russian, encouraging cooperation between journalists in Estonian and Russian, supporting volunteering, etc. Discussions are ongoing between ministries on the extension of integration measures and the effectiveness of existing measures. Question 7: 'The upper secondary schools with Russian language of instruction will study part of the first year in Estonian on the basis of the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. This reform has created strong opposition to society, as Estonian-language learning begins too late, making it difficult for students to progress. The authors of integration monitoring say that 'national measures and individual expectations/needs are inversely proportional and it is time to reverse the reform of the transition to upper secondary school in Estonian so that educational choices from the point of view of language and cultural learning can also be ensured at previous levels of education'. What is your vision of the future of the Russian education system? How can Russian students achieve sufficient proficiency in Estonian at the end of primary school? " As early as 1993, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act defined that from 2000 onwards the transition to study in Estonian in Russian-language schools began. This deadline was changed in 1997 and the year 2007 was set as the start of the changeover. Advanced schools started teaching in Estonian at the time, and for years now, the subjects taught in Estonian at the primary school and upper secondary school level have been taught in Estonian. According to the law, all schools started preparing for the transition to Estonian-language education in 2007, when at least one subject was started and each following year another subject was taught in Estonian. Since 2011, students entering the 10th grade in Estonian will study at least 60% of the study volume. Schools have done a great job and the seminars that summarise school leaders have shown that the students' progress in Estonian subjects is good. All schools participating in seminars so far have assessed the effectiveness of the activities launched. Thus, it is in no way reasonable to reverse the process, which would make what has been done pointless and demotivating both schools and students. I agree with you, and I think it is right that education in Estonian should be introduced to a greater extent in basic schools. The linguistic and attitudeful preparation of students at the level of education prior to upper secondary school is the responsibility of schools and school holders. The Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act provides that the School does so in the light of regional specificities and in a way that is most suited to the needs of the students. In regions where the surrounding language environment is predominantly Russian-language and the possibilities for using the Estonian language of students are limited, these circumstances must be taken into account in the organisation of studies and additional opportunities for using the Estonian language in formal education should be created, for example, through teaching subjects in Estonian at the level of basic education. Most schools have done so, and they teach several subjects in Estonian, most of them skills, human teaching, nature teaching. In schools where language immersion programmes have been implemented, the volume of subjects taught in Estonian depends on the model of the study programme's total volume. Since 2009, according to the national curriculum of the pre-school institution, there is an obligation to teach Estonian from the age of three in pre-school institutions with Russian working language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U48	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In Estonia, one third of the population speaks a native language other than Estonian. In this way, we are relatively unique in the European Union, only in Latvia this proportion is even higher. This means that the government should immediately have a special look and attention to integration policy. When was the last meeting of the government to address the concerns and joys of integration policy, which minister gave an overview and what were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U49	Thank you. You are well aware that a large part of all the activities concerning the integration plan are under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. But integration is a broad topic that cannot be covered by one ministry, and therefore it is an activity of almost all ministers. The mathematics of integration maybe the last more extensive approach took place at the meeting of the Cabinet when we talked about the possible move of the Academy of Interior to Ida-Virumaa. It wasn't that long ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U50	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! We will continue the discussion about Estonian language learning. Look, if a Russian learns Estonian, he needs a dictionary. It is clear that language learning without a dictionary is impossible. What should this dictionary be like? Estonians have twisting and turning, so they should have basic forms, nameable and inherent inflections, ma- and da-infinitives, first turn, middle words, etc. Without it, it will be as good as if you put a woman on the market without money or send soldiers to Afghanistan without a gun, without it you cannot learn the language. Of course, you cannot know, but guess how many dictionaries suitable for learning have been issued in Estonia in the last 21 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U52	Thank you. I've tried to learn a few languages in my life, but I wouldn't use a dictionary as a basic textbook for that. It is still textbooks, educational tools, audio equipment today, and audio-visual tools. I clearly consider the dictionary to be a tool. If you look at online dictionaries, you will find quite a number of Russian-Estonians, Estonian-Russian-Estonian, Estonian-Russian dictionaries that are available free of charge. Whenever questions arise, it is possible to get answers to your questions online.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U53	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Can you formulate from the position of your high-ranking Head of State, which is the biggest problem in the area of integration, which may be hindering development in this direction, or can you evaluate them as trends that need to be dealt with very seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U55	Thank you. After all, this integration study brings out six groups. The main conclusion of the integration study is that integration cannot be approached in such a way that only one target group exists and this target group needs to be addressed. The Estonian population is divided into five types or groups of residents, and in addition, new immigrants as a sixth group, and in dealing with them, each has its own specifics. Therefore, I think that this time in Estonia's integration policy, where there was one and the main problem, is long overdue. Different groups have different concerns, and there are different approaches to solving these concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U56	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! One of the objectives of the government integration plan is to create a level playing field for social coping, regardless of nationality, mother tongue or place of residence. According to the integration plan, one measure to achieve this is to improve the availability of information as a public service for people speaking different mother tongues. In view of this, do you think it is reasonable that a number of public authorities, for example, hang only Estonian-language information campaigns posters on Narva and Sillamäe? Some of them inform people of the quite necessary services of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U58	Thank you. In the case of the language in which the information is shared, it must also be taken into account which target group the information is assigned. If the information is assigned to Finnish tourists, it is clearly not reasonable to provide this information in Estonian, it is reasonable to use Finnish for this purpose. This should be the case with absolutely all target groups. There is certain information that must definitely be provided in the national language, i.e. in Estonian. In order to inform citizens, it is essential to pass on information in such a way that it is also acceptable for them to be comprehensible and unambiguous. We know that the websites of many local governments are not only in Estonian but also in English, Finnish, German, Russian. I think it's a desirable and perfectly natural practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U59	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U60	Thank you. Prime Minister! It was only recently that a study was carried out on the representation of different minorities in the media. The results showed that, in most cases, minorities are considered as objects to be spoken of, rather than as subjects who should be motivated to express their views themselves. Similar results will be achieved by integration monitoring. My question to you is this: why is that, and what can the country do to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U61	Thank you. As the good questioner himself knows, I do not have my own personal media channels, and the state does not have such media as are provided by the government or the Prime Minister himself. Yes, I too have found in this analysis the same observation that you have now made: it would be good if the media were to use, to a greater extent, opinion leaders among people whose mother tongue is not Estonian as authors. I can only hope that our media publications will follow this good advice from the authors of the study.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U62	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Speaking of the positive aspect of integration policy, it is often said that the number of non-citizens in Estonia has fallen below 100,000. But little is said that the number of Russian citizens has exceeded 100,000. As Prime Minister, do you see that this high number of citizens of another country poses a security threat to Estonia, and if you see what you can do about it in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U64	Thank you. The people living in Estonia do not want to regard Estonia as a real security threat. Absolutely not. If you rely on this integration survey, it also turns out that there are people who have acquired the Estonian language very well, who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia, but who are not very great Estonian patriots. And there are Estonian permanent residents who are citizens of the Russian Federation, whose knowledge of the Estonian language is virtually nonexistent, but who are very large patriots of the Republic of Estonia. So such outright simplification would be unfair and completely unacceptable as a state policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U65	Thank you very much. Any more questions for the performer? No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U67	I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, five plus three, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would be happy to ask you the same question, but I will explain it first, because I guess I didn't know what the problem was for the Prime Minister. Usually, not usually, but every time you look at an electronic dictionary online or open a dictionary that is public and accessible, for example, the Russian word 'gora' is translated'mountain'. And if anyone thinks it's enough to use that word after that, then God with him. But imagine if he doesn't have the forms that would be needed in a mountain, a mountain, a mountain, a mountain, a mountain, and all those that are formed of them. This means, first, that it is not possible to learn a language without a dictionary. What was said here today by the Prime Minister is, of course, a great discovery and a new word in linguistics. Vocabularies are not needed to learn language! But the other thing is that the dictionary must contain all these forms. I'd like to ask you a question. Of course, you can't answer me with words, but everyone can point fingers. How many dictionaries that are suitable for studying Estonian, i.e. containing all the necessary morphological forms, have been released in the Republic of Estonia in the last 20 years? I assure you, you won't be needing toes. It's enough with the fingers of two hands. Here you go! Okay, I see three. You're not? Urve, I'm sure you know, don't you? And Urve knew, Urve knew! He has been Minister of Population, has been responsible for this area. In the Republic of Estonia, no dictionary has been issued throughout this period, for 21 years, where all the necessary grammatical forms would be in the equivalent of the Russian word. Believe me, it was a big shock to me! I mean, there is one. It's 1996/1997. A very small dictionary published in Narva, 6,000 words such as this local, for their students, is used on the basis of Narva Language Centre and Narva Schools. However, no publisher has released any dictionary needed for language learning. And after that, to say that all of this is necessary, that it is appreciated and valued, I mean precisely the learning of the Estonian language, it is hypocrisy or direct dilemmaism. I just don't know what they're talking about. Believe me, it's surrealism, pure surrealism. Salvador Dali couldn't even dream of it! Twenty years of learning Estonian, learning Estonian, learning Estonian! But there is no dictionary to help a person learn that language. I think that this situation will change in a short period of time, but that does not mean that it can correct the mistakes that have been made in the last 20 years. Anyway, if you are told that the Russians do not want to learn Estonian or that it is difficult for them, then from now on you know that they cannot do it properly because there are no proper dictionaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U69	Thank you very much. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U70	Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, too often we have research carried out by scientists, once they reach politicians, to undergo such a unique transformation. Instead of reviewing policies through the study, policies will be used as a basis and the study will look selectively for points that support this policy stance. In this case, too. The Prime Minister spoke nicely about how the results of our integration policy have been satisfactory. It is certainly possible, and the Prime Minister has also done so, to find a number of pieces of fact in this monitoring, which support it. The question is whether these conclusions are quite adequate. I will go a little further on the issue of citizenship, because the Prime Minister did not answer this question, but instead criticised my statistical interpretation skills. I thank the Prime Minister for pointing out one word that had been left out of that sentence. But this was not done in order to twist the facts in any way, but because when it comes to the success of integration policy, I assumed that it was understandable that we were talking about Russian young people in this context, not the whole age group in Estonia. When it comes to citizenship, of course, almost 100,000 stateless persons are a very big problem. This is not a matter of direct and perhaps not even of security risk, but of making it difficult for a large proportion of Estonians to participate in politics, public service and democratic society as a whole. Of course, we cannot fail to mention the constant increase in the number of Russian citizens. It is clear, and it has been said by many international experts, as well as by our own national experts, that our citizenship policy is too rigid, which is why Estonia is constantly deprived of valuable human resources that could contribute more effectively to society, perhaps also in the State Chancellery and perhaps also in the government. Therefore, the ideological-dogmatic approach of government departments to the Citizenship Act as a sacred cow which must not be touched is not reasonable in our opinion and slows Estonia's development. At the same time, of course, the problem is much wider than merely legal status. According to this survey, we have grown up a large group of Russian young people who are good at Estonian, are watching the Estonian media, but are extremely distrustful of national institutions. Perhaps partly because they are watching the Estonian media. But that's it. The reason, I think, is that although the integration plan itself is a beautiful and nice document, the actual integration policy still focuses too much on language learning and on such purely formal issues, leaving real socio-economic and political integration in the background. This certainly made sense in the early 1990s, but no longer, because the only way to increase the trust of people, the Russian people, in the state is ultimately to deal with social equality, true social equality between them and the Estonian community. Both international conventions and common sense say that active measures are needed to ensure genuine social equality. The right to free education does not help a person if he or she does not understand the language in which that education is provided. This is the way in which Russian native-language residents will have the constitutional right to equal pay and education, but both of them will remain below the average of Estonians. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U71	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U72	Too often in integration we have seen the wishes of the government, the wishes of many politicians and also the wishes of the simple Estonian people, in which case the Russian people, force to make them happy and try to do so quite quickly, with certain measures. It should be noted that integration is a long-term and potentially traumatic process, which requires a calm and flexible approach. The road roll policy on this issue only causes disappointment in people and the return of Estonia. The most important thing, however, is the question of attitude. When ACTA's opponents protest and say that the Prime Minister should resign because he does not listen to the people, it is considered a normal democratic expression. But if the exact same thing is said by Narva's energetics, it is an anti-state act. Perhaps this is not right, but it seems that some of the heads of our politicians, leading politicians, are still rooted in the belief that integration is a top-down process where a wise father teaches a foolish son how to live in Estonia. If you look at the essence of it, you certainly can't call it integration. This is an assimilation that goes against the objectives of the government's integration agenda, the recommendations of scientists and, of course, European practice. The Prime Minister said today that free will is necessary for integration. This is certainly necessary, but the country must create favourable and motivating conditions for integration. Unlike the Prime Minister, we see forceful pressure on very important issues, which do not take into account either parents' or children's views on how it is better, for example, to make educational choices in the interests of their future. There are considerably fewer beneficial things in this regard. For example, language learning can be dealt with in two ways, can be offered free courses to all those who wish to study or set up an agency that triggers people due to lack of language skills. I think the first one would make a lot more sense, but the government thinks otherwise. On the basis of some positive facts of integration monitoring, it would certainly be wrong to conclude that everything is moving in the right direction and there is no need to change anything in principle. The study, in my view, makes it quite clear that a qualitatively new approach is needed, which is first, more segmented, smarter by group. And most importantly, it cannot be over or over, but I am not sure whether the Prime Minister represented this view today: integration policy must involve minorities in its development, not be seen as an object of integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U73	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. The Prime Minister wishes to participate in the negotiations. I beg you for your speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U74	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I do not agree in any way with Mr Ossinovski's interpretation. I have not, in the slightest, signalled today that I believe that integration is a process that has taken place from top to bottom, and I do not agree that the process of integration in Estonia is going on the way you dealt with it, that a wise father says and then everything happens. With my answers, I did not give any reason for such an interpretation. It's embarrassing to quote myself, but I'm doing it twice from this speaker, once to you and once to Mikhail Stalnukhin. I said today from this speaker: 'Estonia considers the personal will and activity of a person to be a prerequisite for successful integration. I can't imagine it any other way. Free will and the individual's desire to be integrated in society are inevitable prerequisites. 'That's what I said. It is a shame that Mr. Stalnukhin was in the debate again, but now that it is my turn to debate him, he has left the room. Well, I guess he'll come back for the third question and repeat the same pattern as the first and second question. But still, the quote should be very precise. Mikhail Stalnukhin just said something like that from this speaker, pointing out to me, as if by assigning this phrase to me, the Prime Minister said that dictionaries are not needed for language learning. I didn't say anything like that! I said the textbook should be the main source of the language being acquired. But the dictionaries will no doubt be needed, and I've directed him to the online dictionaries. And if the situation requires a very, very subtle knowledge of the language, then we have a lyrics dictionary in Estonian, there you can find all kinds of forms, including the word'mountain'. But an earlier quote, be it my quote again and be it a quote from this speaker once again from the government press conference on 7 February 2008: 'Yes, nor can I guarantee that there is no way to get any worse. I wonder who says they've gone north now. I don't understand this definition of bottom. And I also don't understand where this optimism is taken and they say that now only you can go up, you can't go down anymore. That is what I have said here many times: if it is a crisis and a crash, then it is only in such a crisis and a crash that I would like to live in. ' Mr Stalnukhin, these words were dedicated to you; they were spoken at a government press conference on 7 February 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U75	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, would like to make another reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Well, how can I miss this opportunity if the Prime Minister mentions my name and I have two minutes to talk to him? There are no other auditoriums, there are no other contexts, there are no other issues within which we can discuss anything, even for once, to find any compromise on any issue. I spoke of the regrettable, I would say even more strongly, of a terrible situation in which the country has completely lost control of the language learning process. He thinks this control exists, it doesn't really exist. And when I asked a rhetorical question as to whether the Prime Minister could guess how many dictionaries were issued to meet the needs of language learning, the absolute majority of my colleagues in this Chamber realised that there was something wrong here. It is understandable what it is that they are not really there. I'm going to raise a problem and please try to understand it. On that, I hear a ridiculous suggestion that every person can watch on the Internet. That would be nice, but Mr. Prime Minister, the thing is that the same vocabulary, which is printed, is put on the Internet without forms. It looks exactly like if you type in a "gora," you get a "mountain" and no other form is given. So I will stick to my opinion and I would just like to make it clear that we live in the 21st century. This building is full of TVs, everything is being translated into the Chamber and in order to listen to what the Minister says, I don't have to be here, I can listen to it either in the smoke room, in my office, in the political group room, etc. Maybe even you have a TV in the government somewhere, you should look into it, he's very useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U77	Good colleague, it's been two minutes. My colleague, Mr Ossinovski, would probably like to say a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U78	Thank you. I wanted to make it clear that I was very well aware and remembered the Prime Minister's words, which he now read the second time, but I do not think that will change the matter. So it is still exactly the same attitude, where integration is a top-down process. The only freedom a person has is whether or not he or she wants to integrate into society, a place of choice. However, it is not the way in which he integrates into this society and into which society he integrates. It is a matter of principle here whether it is an equal say in the process or whether it is a submission or failure to submit to the wishes of a particular government or other state institution. But it's not possible to essentially influence this process according to the current model.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U79	When we look at the composition of the Riigikogu, we see that there are also people in the Riigikogu who do not speak Estonian as their mother tongue. I am not prepared to accept your claim that there is no native-speaking Russian in the State Chancellery. I don't have that feeling. With the government, if there are individuals who have ambition and who have received a mandate from the people, regardless of their native language, they will also become ministers. I'm sure that time will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U80	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U81	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U82	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U83	Mr Prime Minister! Several studies have shown that Russian-speaking residents suffer from the so-called glass ceiling effect, which does not allow the social ladder to reach above a certain level. Even if all the essential background conditions of citizenship, language skills, education are equal to Estonians. One example is the formations of the three governments you have formed, which have not had any ministers of non-Estonian nationality. As far as I know, there are no non-Estonian citizens in the State Chancellery. If we look at the structure of the employees of any other Estonian ministry or other central authority, it is a wonder if we find more than three names that refer to non-Estonian origin. This fact is quite obvious. Do you have any idea what this is all about and what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U84	Let's go to the next question, which is the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Esther Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Kalev Kallo s. A request for information on the proposals of the General Assembly of local governments submitted on 10 April 2004 (No 151). Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U85	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On 9 April, twelve members of the Central Party Group submitted to the Prime Minister an inquiry into the proposals of the General Assembly of local governments. For many years, it has been said that Estonia's socio-economic development is unbalanced and that regional inequality is exacerbated. On 31 March, a general assembly of Estonian municipalities and cities took place, where concrete proposals were made to improve relations between local governments and central government. A cross-cutting issue was strengthening civil society, increasing the role of local authorities, decision-making and accountability in managing and organising society as an alternative to centralising resources and decision-making. In addition, it was acknowledged that if the heads of state do nothing now, the population will continue to leave rural areas, the departure of young people will accelerate and fewer children will be born in Estonia. In this regard, we have asked the Prime Minister three questions, to which we are awaiting an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U86	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Please respond to the Prime Minister's address.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'What proposals have you discussed at a government meeting on the initiative of the Minister for Regional Affairs? ' Issues relating to the income base and credit limits of local governments will be discussed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic at least twice a year, in April and September. When approving both the state budget strategy and the state budget for the coming year, the Minister of Regional Affairs will give an overview of the progress and results of the negotiations with the Municipalities Cooperation Council. For the purpose of analysing and harmonising the negotiating positions of the Cooperation Council and the Government Committee, seven working groups from both sides have been set up by the associated ministries. Each working group will discuss substantive issues, which in many respects also relate to the proposals made by the General Assembly. For example, this year, the Working Party on Finance and Tax Policy has discussed in depth the tax exemptions for domestic land. The government has decided to compensate municipalities for the loss of income from land tax by increasing their income tax rate. As a result, the local authorities will receive around EUR 10.5 million next year and around EUR 13 million in 2014. Local authorities will also be compensated in 2013 for the one-off costs related to the implementation of the land tax exemption of EUR 990000 from the state budget through the Support Fund. In addition, according to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Regional Affairs has established a broad-based think tank for the development of local governments, composed of experts from several state institutions, from the Riigikogu, universities, local government associations, etc. As far as I know, the municipal associations have presented the proposals presented to the think tank at the General Assembly and discussions on concrete proposals will continue. The second question: 'How do you assess the reduction of the autonomy of Estonian local authorities in the context of the European Charter for Local Government? Does the content of this document no longer have to be considered in substance? " In the Estonian legal order, the autonomy of local governments, i.e. the right to self-order, is guaranteed by the Constitution and the European Charter for Local Government. Local authorities are fully free, within the limits allowed by law, to take their initiative in any area which does not fall outside their competence and is not assigned to any other administrative body. The powers conferred on local authorities are usually fully and exclusive. No other central or regional administrative body may damage or restrict them, except in accordance with the procedures laid down by law. According to Eurostat, the share of local government revenue in public expenditure in Estonia amounted to 25% in 2011. It is one percentage point above the EU average of 24% and four percentage points above the euro area average of 21%. In 15 Member States of the European Union, the share of municipal income in public expenditure is smaller than that of Estonia. For example, in France it is 21%, in Germany 18%, in Belgium and Ireland 13%, in Greece 6%. It is not clear what is the complaint in this particular case that the autonomy of local authorities has been reduced. In making additional tasks for local authorities, the State has provided resources to carry out the tasks and has reduced the volume of liabilities in reducing the revenue base. Question 3: 'You have criticised the role of rural governments for years. Why, as head of government, have you not called for decisions to reorganize ineffective rural governments? ' The question is incomprehensible to me and strange. I've stated the fact that the task of rural governments has decreased over time. But I'll answer it. The tasks of the rural governments have changed over the years and it cannot be argued that rural governments have not been reorganized in recent years. The Ministry of the Interior analysed the functions of rural governments, after which structures were harmonised and support functions consolidated. According to the Ministry of the Interior, then more effective management has been achieved. The functions of rural governments have been decreasing, but there are certain tasks that the state must fulfil regardless of the existence of rural governments, such as monitoring local government legislation, as well as planning supervision functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U88	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U89	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned in a specific way that if the state places additional tasks on the municipalities, it will be compensated through an increasing revenue base. Have you noticed that very many Estonian cities are struggling with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act? It imposed an obligation to hire assistant teachers, psychologists and logos in schools, but no additional resources were provided for this purpose. This topic has primarily been raised to you by an important city, the city of Tartu. Last year, the Minister of Regional Affairs promised to compensate for these expenses, and now the Minister of Education says that this money should still be taken away from assistant teachers and given to teachers. Have you dealt with this issue, and do you think that if the government has put new obligations on the municipality, additional resources should be provided to fulfil these obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U90	I can confirm the position of the Ministry of Education and Research, according to which the responsibilities imposed on the local government are also covered by the state budget. At present, the complaint from the Ministry of Education and Research to local authorities is precisely that educational resources are not only used to pay the salaries of teachers and school directors, but are also used for other purposes. As indicated by the National Audit Office, in very many cases it is not possible to determine exactly what these objectives have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U91	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U92	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Estonia is a happy country visited by a lot of tourists. But seeing the streets of our cities every day, I'm ashamed of these tourists. Not to mention that people in our own country go through these streets every day and pass them by. Prime Minister, what solution do you see in order to improve this situation and bring our city streets to normal? I hope you are not talking about Tallinn and Tallinn TV today, because there are other municipalities in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U93	Okay, I'm not talking about the city of Tallinn and these streets, the condition of which you know very well. I'm talking about the streets of Tartu, and I think the quality of the streets of Tartu is pretty good. Of course, it would always be better, but all local authorities in the Republic of Estonia and in a very poor country on another continent, or in some very rich countries, complain about the lack of resources and this lack of resources is mostly reflected in asphaltic holes in the streets. The streets of Tartu are in pretty good shape compared to other Estonian cities, which you did not allow me to mention here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U94	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! In response to Kadri Samson's question, you went a little off the subject. I ask you directly: is the pay paid to psychologists, logo beets and assistant teachers, whose presence in school is compulsory by law, the non-targeted use of education money, as the Minister of Education and Research now claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U96	Thank you. In order to carry out the tasks entrusted to local authorities by law, the legislator, the State must allocate the necessary resources and the Ministry of Education and Research is not opposed to the necessary resources. However, the Ministry of Education and Research is opposed to the fact that in our schools, compared to the average in the European Union compared to the Nordic countries, the cost of auxiliary staff is now twice as high by memory. This cannot be considered acceptable because these higher costs for auxiliary staff reduce teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U97	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! I remember the years when, as mayor of Tartu, you took part in the work of the management board of the Association of Cities, and neither were the negotiations between local authorities and public authorities easy. Prime Minister, I would like to ask your opinion on what level this relationship is at now: on the one hand, the state, say, the government, on the other hand, the local government agency, either through an association of rural governments or an association of cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U99	Thank you. As the good questioner knows, I do not participate in these negotiations as a party, and that makes it difficult for me to comment on the climate of the negotiations. The current negotiations are nothing different from the negotiations of ten years ago, where I took part on the local authorities' side as a representative of the urban union. The financial situation of local governments in Estonia has changed considerably in the last ten years and the financial situation of local governments is much better than it was ten years ago. Already this share of personal income tax received by local governments is according to the current new proportion, it is 11,4% or 11,94%, much higher than it would have been under the old system. So this is a very big victory for local governments. Compared to ten years ago, the use of European Union funds is also a huge victory for local authorities. Ten years ago, we never dreamed of the sums that have now become available to local authorities thanks to various European Union projects. Local authorities also receive very significant amounts of funds from the sale of Kyoto allowances. Yes, we can always be extremely critical and say that we have very poor local authorities, but the reality is that the situation is considerably better than it was ten years ago. I also disagree with the critical statement in the question that we have had a very rapid start on urbanisation. I have here today a study prepared by Statistics Estonia 'The regional development of Estonia. Trends in the regional development of Estonia in recent years', by Eedi Sepp. It says here that when comparing population changes in urban and rural areas, it appears that in all rural settlements the population has fallen more than in urban settlements in 2005-2011, by 1.0% and 0.33% respectively. And now the point is important: 'Despite this, Estonia has been one of the countries with a lower rate of urbanisation in Europe. 'Our regional policy has worked. On the basis of this study, too, the regional policy objectives that we have set ourselves have been much better realised than in the European Union as a whole or on average. It is known that Finland, for example, is about ten or more years ahead of Estonia in terms of the pace of urbanisation. In Estonia, also according to this survey, the rate of agglomeration has been one of the lowest in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U100	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U101	Thank you. Prime Minister! You say that all the responsibilities imposed on the municipalities are well covered by money. But why was the judgment of the Supreme Court's General Assembly very clear that the responsibilities and financial responsibility between the state and local governments are out of place?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U102	The Supreme Court wanted the budget to define very clearly the tasks assigned to the local government by the state and the resources allocated to them and the local government's own tasks. Let the members of the Riigikogu be reminded that the honourable members of the Riigikogu have already made such a very clear separation when drafting the 2011 budget. To date, it has been defined what national tasks are to be carried out by local authorities and what the means are to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U103	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U104	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would like to know on what basis you said that the streets of Tartu are so good. On average, I drive through the city of Tartu once a week. If I am now imagining Turku Street and Võru Road, especially the exit through several roundabouts, across the bridge from Tartu to Võru, then I think that traffic management and the state of the streets are very bad. In particular, it was noted that in winter Tallinn had been much better removed from the snow than the university city of Tartu. This is my personal experience. Why do you say that the streets in Tartu are better than in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U105	Beauty is still in the eye of the viewer. I don't know how observant you were when you were driving down Võru Street. I don't think so. You see, every weekend on Võru Street, I also cycle repeatedly. I assure you, Võru Street is in very good condition. As regards traffic management on the road leaving Tartu and getting out of Tartu via Võru Street, this has been a problem for the last dozen years. At the moment, I am pleased to say that the next time you drive down the Võru highway to Põlva or Võru, you will see extensive road construction works. These works have started, the soil work is impressive. I am sure that, inter alia, thanks to the European Union's resources, the departure along the Võru road or Võru street can be much more comfortable and better than it is now. This investment goes to the right place. I remember this from the mayor's time, and this trend has remained so far that the road section with the highest traffic frequency is the very beginning of the Võru road until the Uhti cross. It is often mistaken that the road with the highest traffic frequency is the Tallinn road, but this is not the case. The direction of the Võru is the one that is most loaded from the highways leaving Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U106	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call my colleague Tarmo Tamme in the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U107	Mr. Prime Minister! I admire your continued optimism and ability to manipulate numbers. It seems to me that there are only two views in Estonia: Tallinn and Tartu. This contrast, the fact that the government has opposed itself to Tallinn, has led essentially to the fact that the wallet of the Estonian municipalities has been emptied with it. We are only talking about the streets of Tallinn and Tartu, but there are more than 220 municipalities in Estonia. I ask, Prime Minister: why did the city of Põltsamaa make a request recently so that the streets of the city could be handed over to the Estonian state? Because there's just no money to fix the streets. Apparently, most municipalities are willing to make a similar proposal, as it is not possible to travel their streets either. But we'll have a different opinion here. Speaking of the capacity and ability of the municipality, I ask, Mr Prime Minister, where will be found next year, if Mr Aaviksoo finds money for raising the salaries of teachers in general education schools, to pay additional salaries to teachers who receive a salary from the local budget. These are kindergarten teachers and kindergarten teachers who are also expecting a raise. The 0.17% increase you have planned for next year will not even cover the decreasing share of income from the abolition of land tax. As you said today, an additional EUR 10,5 million will be received next year, but the amount that municipalities will lose through this is said to be higher, EUR 13 million or EUR 17 million. If we know that next year all municipalities will face an increase in the price of electricity, and the electricity of the whole city or municipality will cost 20% to 30%, I ask where these additional resources will be found. Not to mention that most local government employees are at somewhere in 2009 because they have not been able to raise wages since then. That means they have a downtime paycheck. I do not consider it normal for a country where the local government budget is regulated by how many street lighting lamps we turn off. In my opinion, it is not a sustainable state, and local governments should not behave in this way, but it is the last chance for local governments. If we reduce the safety of people and save a budget with it, I think we should not live in a country like this. I hope, however, that the government will find additional resources for local authorities next year so that elementary tasks can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U108	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister also wishes to participate in the negotiations. To the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! You will probably receive a detailed answer to the questions you have asked the next time you have finalised these questions for a new question. But briefly, I would say that local authorities have received and receive very significant sums from the state budget. Eleven billion will be spent on water projects. For me, it is a very large amount of money, and it should not be seen as some kind of spite or gift from the European Union. It is taxpayers' money that is used for the benefit of the taxpayer. High quality drinking water and treated waste water is not a luxury of any kind or a concession to the bureaucracy of the euro. It's our vital need. It would probably be inappropriate to re-direct the money from the sale of Kyoto allowances to local authorities. Tallinn is the favorite theme for everyone. This one billion, which Tallinn will receive for acquiring new trams, is a very, very large amount of money for me. I cannot agree with those who think that the government is somehow hurting the city of Tallinn or other municipalities. Street lighting. You're the one calling out evil. If the choices are that either street lighting or propaganda, and propaganda is chosen, the streets will be blinded. In the case of direct street lighting, I also express the hope that once again, from the state budget, these funds will be transferred to the state budget from the Kyoto emission units to the state budget, and that the street lighting of several Estonian cities will be fixed. This street lighting, which I hope we will have in several Estonian cities in a few years' time, is also extremely effective in terms of energy use, and that is also what I recommend to those whose projects may not qualify for this funding round. Energy savings must be dealt with absolutely by all local authorities, we should not expect solutions to come from somewhere else. The local government is responsible for organising local life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U110	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. My colleague, Jüri Ratas, would like to take part in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I do not agree with the argument that only local authorities decide on the organisation of local authorities. We are talking quite a lot of money and local government budgets in the context of this question. In fact, this very hall, the Government of the Republic and the Coalition have a huge role to play here. One example: if you take the Local Tax Act, we will find six local taxes there so that municipalities can design their own budget, and three of these six taxes are basically not used by any municipality. In fact, one might rightly ask why they are not using them. Why don't they use these six taxes? Why does the council not decide to set up these taxes in this local government? The reason is very simple: they do not take this opportunity because the administration of these taxes is much more expensive. Is this not a serious signal that the entire tax system of municipalities needs to be re-examined nationally? This is the same example, even if it relates to the exemption of the land under home from tax for the following year. In fact, it was one of the last ways for municipalities to have a say in shaping their own budget, setting the tax rate. This opportunity and competence have also been taken away from the municipalities. The fact that local governments and national self-government associations have consistently called for the recovery of 11.94% of personal income tax in all negotiations with the State is no news. But the whole system of taxation is not the competence of the local government; it is, in fact, very clearly the competence of the Riigikogu, the government and, above all, the governing coalition. You might want to deal with that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U112	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U113	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Laul, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toom on 16 April about the small purchasing power of Estonian residents (No 155). My colleague, Heimar Lenk, is already on the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U114	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry has already been made at the beginning of April and is therefore already quite old, it reached the hall so late. It concerns one study that was carried out in February and deals with the small purchasing power of Estonian residents, which is poverty in Estonia. I will only read a few sentences from the beginning of the inquiry: 'The first sentence of the programme of the Government Union of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Reform Party states that the goal of the government union is to increase the standard of living of the people of Estonia. At the same time, the Estonian Public Broadcasting transmitted a table based on data from the ILO, drawn up by the BBC, according to the purchasing power standard for residents of different countries. " This table shows that the purchasing power of Estonian residents is constantly declining and that we are lagging behind many countries in this respect. Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi gave a very destructive and critical assessment of recent research. Unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister, the Estonian Statistical Office also provides data similar to foreign research. Real wages have fallen 11 blocks in a row in recent years, and nothing can be done. At the same time, compulsory expenditure, i.e. food and housing expenditure, was 45% of the Estonian household's budget last year on average, which is considerably higher than in the developed European countries. We have a whole series of questions, the last one of which sounds like this: Mr. Prime Minister, how is Estonia moving to the five richest countries in Europe going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Lenk. Mr. Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U116	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Why has the objective of the government union programme already set out in the first sentence not been feasible for your government, which means that the standard of living of the Estonian people has not increased? " Estonia's economic growth in 2011 was the fastest in the European Union, with an average wage increase of 5.4%. The wage income of the population increased even more, as employment also increased by 6.7%. Both average wage and wage income growth are forecast by the Ministry of Finance for this year, and growth rates are expected to pick up in the coming years. For example, the average gross wage reached 847 euros in the first quarter of this year, which is 6.9% higher than in the same period last year. This creates the possibility of raising pensions and raising the standard of living in general. Thanks to the improved prospects for the future and the strengthening of confidence, the consumer confidence of the population has increased for two years now. Private consumption increased 4.4% in Estonia last year, so it can be said that at least on average last year our living standards increased and are projected to rise in this year and in the following years. The same cannot be said of all the countries of the European Union, as the European Commission's latest forecast is that private consumption will decrease in the euro area as well as in the European Union as a whole this year. The second question: 'What are the drawbacks of ILO data that are not suitable for our finance minister and how would you comment on this study? ' Statistical data only provide value if their comparability in time and space is ensured. Making wage statistics internationally comparable requires substantial analytical work and therefore the availability of comparable wage data is limited. The differences between tax systems, the labour code and the methods used to pay work make it difficult. For example, Eurostat, which is certainly the most competent source of statistics for the countries of the European Union, does not publish wage statistics because these figures are not comparable and their irresponsible publication would cause excessive confusion. Moreover, the comparison must take into account the difference in price levels, which adds to the complexity. In the present case, wage data come from the ILO, which has received them from the national statistical offices of the Member States, but were adjusted by the BBC according to differences in price levels. The ILO's own position on the credibility of such a transformation is also sceptical. Patrick Besler, a senior analyst of the ILO, has explicitly said to the Estonian National Broadcasting Agency: 'ILO does not believe that national data are directly comparable, as wage calculations in countries may vary. ' A more robust way of comparing national wealth is to use GDP per capita adjusted according to purchasing power. The latest official data on prosperity in Eurostat's information system is for 2010 and according to them, Estonia's GDP per capita was 64% of the European Union average. The same table shows that Bosnia is 31%, Macedonia is 36%, Turkey is 49%, Croatia is 61% of the EU average. Both Hungary's 65% and Poland's 63% are at the same level as Estonia, but Hungary is expected to face a new economic downturn this year. As Estonia's economic growth was the fastest in the European Union in 2011, our relative position has improved even further compared to the rest of the European Union. It is also important to see how much people can benefit from the benefits created in society. For example, Croatia's unemployment rate was higher than ours in 2011: 13.5%, Estonia 12,5%. The figures for Turkey, Poland and Hungary were slightly lower, but still at a level quite comparable to ours. In 2010, according to Eurostat, the level of unemployment in Bosnia and Macedonia is 27.2% and 32% respectively, far from the level of satisfaction that could be expressed. Question 3: 'What practical measures has the government been able to raise the standard of living of the people of Estonia over the last three years? Which social groups have it increased? 'The government's economic policy aims to create the conditions for sustainable economic growth, leading to greater prosperity and real convergence with developed countries. Ensuring macro-economic stability and flexibility supporting internal and external balances is a prerequisite for sustainable economic development. The pace of real convergence in Estonia has been rapid and we are well approaching the European Union average. New jobs and higher wages must come first and foremost from the development of the private sector. The task of the government is to create a favourable environment for economic development, to ensure the reliability of public finances and the business-friendly nature of the economic environment. Practical measures to ensure economic development and improve people's well-being must be highlighted as follows: Public budgets have been drawn up responsibly, budgets have not reflected wishes that our public finances would not tolerate. The country will continue to increase the volume of investment in the interest of growth, which will also lead to employment growth. The state will contribute to R &amp; D: in 2012, the state's contribution to this sector will be around 1% of gross domestic product. The state contributes to helping unemployed people to work, aiming in particular at reducing long-term unemployment and more active participation in lifelong learning. Money aimed at improving the environment represents a contribution to the green economy, which in turn means jobs, resulting in a reduction in pollution and a more sustainable use of energy and resources. The state helps to improve the living conditions of families with many children. An important step by the government to raise people's living standards was the increase in pensions in the context of the deep economic downturn in 2009 and the fall in the country's tax revenues. In April this year, the average old-age pension was almost 14.5% higher than in 2008. The consumer price index has increased by 12% over the same period. Of the employment-oriented measures already implemented, I would like to highlight, for example, the increase in funding for active labour market measures from 0.21% in 2009 to 0.34% of GDP in 2011. The labour market training budget increased slightly more than three times in 2011 compared to the previous year, and the funding of work placements increased by more than 50%. With a view to putting the long-term unemployed into work, the budget for work practice was increased 2.5 times in 2011. The amendment of the Income Tax Act excluded the treatment of level-of-work training as a special advantage from 1 January 2012. Question 4: 'When will the purchasing power of the Estonian people reach the level of the fourth quarter of 2008? " According to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, Estonia's average real wage exceeds the 2008 level in 2015. In addition, it should be taken into account that the wages for the fourth quarter of 2008 were still at a level due to the previous boom, which proved to be clearly beyond our economy due to both internal and external factors. In other words, individuals were greatly overwhelmed. Question 5: 'How is Estonia moving to the five richest countries in Europe? ' Estonia's relative standard of living is steadily rising. While in 2000 Estonia's purchasing power per capita GDP was only 45% of the European Union average, in 2010 65%. I am sure that the standard of living in Estonia will continue to rise faster than the European average. For example, according to the European Commission's latest spring forecast, Estonia will be making the most progress in the European Union next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U117	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have questions. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Here's the question. If Estonia wants to be among the five richest European countries, should the purchasing power of the Estonian population also be among the top five or is the purchasing power such that it can be smaller and behind and catch up later?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U119	It is likely that purchasing power will have to grow, as this objective has been defined as gross domestic product per capita. If GDP per capita is large, it is likely that the purchasing power will also be high.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U120	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call my colleague, Heimar Leng.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U121	Thank you. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U122	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U123	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the beautiful picture you painted from Estonia. I have no reason to argue that the figures you mentioned are true. But I'd just add some more information here. The average wage in Estonia rose to 849 euros, but let us not forget what has been published by our Statistical Office: that our median wage is currently only 600 euros, which is the worst in Europe. You said that the pension is now, after the pension was slightly increased, i.e. 4.4%, bigger, but the difference between Estonian and Luxembourg pensions is now six times that. For a number of European countries, the difference between Estonia and their pensions is five- or four-fold. Don't tell me how much life has gotten better for people. You said that we are the fastest developing country, but let us not forget, too, that news came today that the price increase in Estonia is the fastest in the European Union and the euro area, the quarter after quarter. But we can argue on the remote, and apparently we will. In order not to be person-centred and press the thoughts of myself or of my party, I, Mr. Prime Minister, have today taken out a reader's letter from one of our media publications. I will read it to you so that you can learn how Estonia lives and what the people of Estonia think. This is a letter published today, 28 May. The author of the letter writes: "Estonia is doing well. It's a pleasure to read it, and it's even better to hear it from others. If it goes well, you don't have to make any effort, you just have to keep up the level, and for those who don't think so, you have to find a place in the kapo yearbook. On 14 March [this year] we visited a meeting at Toompea, which was attended by more than half a thousand apartment owners, the Riigikogu, where we asked for a program to be developed [to fight] with increasing poverty. The Riigikogu's reply made it clear that as Estonia is doing well, there is no need for it. " So the people were answered. 'It is generally known that if a person is a drunkard,' writes the author of this letter, 'then he can only be subjected to treatment if he admits that he is a drunkard. The same is true with the Estonian state, it is not possible to plan measures to combat poverty if we declare to the world how well we are doing. It is entirely natural for the European Union to start reducing the subsidies we receive and calls for us to participate in supporting countries that are not doing so 'well'. Unfortunately, however, in those countries where governments have the courage to objectively assess the real situation, 'but not just as Estonia has implemented measures that help the population to manage poverty and ensure a normal life for the majority of citizens. It is appalling to hear the Minister of Finance Ligi talk about how well we are doing and, at the same time, the claim that a raise in wages is not even worth dreaming about. /... / Mr. Prime Minister repeats as a owl,' that's not my expression, it's a letter written by the author of 'that our finances are balanced and we don't owe. That's true, but the result is that the country is so thin that we close schools, hospitals, rescue depots and police stations. /.../ Mr. Parts is skilfully rolling the growth in home expenses onto apartment owners who do not want to heat houses, the insulation had to reduce their heating bills significantly. Unfortunately, however, the roommaker can save only in winter, while the bank loan has to be paid for 12 months, with expenditure on housing increasing throughout the year in renovated houses. The author of the letter says: 'I continue to take note of what was said in my address on 14 March. We need a comprehensive programme to combat growing poverty. The introduction of graduated income tax should certainly be considered; corporate income must also be taxed. The resulting increase in the state budget would allow support for owners of apartments by reducing VAT from room temperature. The increase in taxes could lead to an increase in the state budget, which would also make it possible to raise the salaries of lower-level officials, who would then also have a reason to go to the store if they had paid off their housing costs and bank loans. If the public had more money, it would boost the consumption of goods and services, which would stimulate the internal market and lead to economic growth, in which the European Union today sees one of the most important opportunities for economic growth. ' Finally, 'The answer to the article's title would be the question of what to do with poverty, sit down, find out the real situation and start looking for solutions to eliminate the causes of poverty. Today, we have reached a critical limit by cutting costs; the solution must come from increasing revenue. ' But our leaders do not understand that. 'Poor living is not an art. We are now also trying to live normally, as we are living among the five richest [countries] in Europe. ' But, Mr. Ansip, it's not coming out! 'Mr. Ansip, once the Communists declared that our children would be happy to live in communism. Do you now declare that our children will have the happiness of living among the rich in Europe? ' What about us, Prime Minister? And our kids are already living today, and tomorrow they'd like to live much, much better than they do now, but they'll probably live as badly tomorrow as they do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U124	I would now like to ask my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul of the Chair. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The purchasing power of people may indeed have increased, but it depends on who. Last week I attended many meetings in Jõgeva County and saw that at least no one had increased their purchasing power, rather reduced their purchasing power. Poverty is currently very high in rural areas. Let us remember that prices have risen and we have had the fastest inflation in Europe for many months. It's not suddenly formed now. And not only are we and the opposition talking about this at all, but also very many people with a right-wing worldview and supporters of the coalition have said that the price increases are severe. For example, economist Andres Arrak has said that prices have risen mysteriously over the last year and we have caught up with them in the Nordic countries. According to Jüri Manor, prices have risen not three times, as was said here, but thirty times. I remember that when we joined the European Union eight years ago, people were warned that this would lead to price increases and that our prices might eventually even start to approach Finland's, but we know that Finnish prices are among the highest in Europe. The Finnish Consumer Protection Board now points out that many prices are higher in Estonia than in Finland, compared to the prices of Prisma shops. Very many foods, such as butter, Keijud and chicken, plus food such as washing powder are already cheaper in Finland than we are. We also know that one of the reasons, of course, is that Finland has reduced the VAT on food; we have not wanted to do so. Very many countries have reduced the value added tax (VAT) on food products. So we have really high prices. More than half of the cost of life, however, is to be borne by home expenses, which have increased dramatically. We all remember the proud ballots and promises in this Chamber before the elections. Two government parties, the IRL and the Reform Party, promised to lower home expenses and curb monopolies. We remember these slogans, I have one written down: 'With the price restrictions of the Monopolies, we will reduce citizens' heating and water costs by up to half! ' We remember how Ken-Mart Vaher said in this hall that the Competition Authority would deal with this and lower home expenses. Today we see that one year after the elections, heat energy has increased by 18%, electricity by 15%, gas by 12%. Nine months from now, electricity is likely to increase by an additional 17 to 18%, perhaps more. We understand that since the Monopoly Control Act introduced a rate of return on companies, prices must rise. But the people were promised something else, and people are still very, very upset about it right now. If the government really wanted to lower prices, it could have done so by lowering VAT and excise duty, but it has not been wanted because more money is needed in the state budget. I will not repeat again how much our electricity excise duty is higher than the minimum requirement of the European Union. Now it is said that if a reduction in home expenses is to be achieved, homes must be insulated and renovated. I repeat: in order to achieve 50% of the savings and receive a State contribution of 25 to 35% of the costs incurred, large sums of money must be borrowed from the bank to renovate. Of course, it's too much for the residents. As far as human poverty is concerned, we know that about 60% of unemployed people live in relative poverty, about 50% of pensioners and long-term unemployment are still growing. So where's that bigger buying power coming from? Where will the higher purchasing power of pensioners come from if we raised pensions less than the wage growth-inflation ratio would have allowed now? People leave Estonia. Almost half of those who have gone abroad don't plan to come back, 42% are considering going. If we look at the percentage of poverty among children or children, we know these figures. They're sad. One in four children, or over 63000 children, lives in Estonia at risk of poverty or poverty. Relative poverty accounts for nearly 20% and a further 7.4% at risk of poverty. Below the absolute poverty line, 45,000 children, or 18.6%, lived in 2010, of which nearly 9% lived in deep poverty. And when we say that unemployment is falling and everything is getting better, I ask: in this case, how will the payment of income support continue to increase? In 2008, when this crisis started at the end of the year, income support was paid to 59500 people, in 2010 to 165200 people and in 2011 to 162700 people. So it's still very, very large numbers. Let's look at the number of inability-to-work pensioners, how it has grown. In recent years, it has doubled, especially in Põlva County, Jõgeva County and Tartu County. We have a lot of people without health insurance, but the most expensive medicines in Europe we have here in Estonia, people cannot buy medicines. WHO has pointed out that we are in a very bad situation - people can't heal their teeth, can't buy glasses, can't take care of them, and so on. So the situation is not as happy as we speak. The Prime Minister has often given us an example of the last human development report, where there is nothing wrong with it, everything is good in Estonia and in the Baltic States at all. However, I would like to highlight the chapter of the report on social policy, where the Baltic welfare state is already listed in one title. And it has been said here that the governments of the Baltic States, including Estonia, have never considered social policy issues to be important. They have never been considered a priority, our social expenditure not only on social assistance, but also on health care and everything else in this area has been among the smallest in Europe. Even the countries of Central Europe (Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, etc.) have moved to the next stage of development, i.e. human development is still under serious emphasis. So our purchasing power has not increased if it is, then perhaps only in the Prime Minister's circle and in his constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U126	Thank you! The Prime Minister wishes to participate in our negotiations. Speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U127	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! When I answered one question earlier, when I said that in the course of the next question I would probably be able to answer these questions, there were so many different arguments that the answer would not fit into the time frames of this inquiry. First of all, let it be said that gross domestic product per capita on the basis of purchasing power is 64% of the European Union average in 2010. It was 45% in 2000. Trust Eurostat, they're not lying! Next: In Estonia, real wages have increased for the last three quarters in a row. I should probably not comment on your claim that prices are catching up with those in the Nordic countries, because you also understand that you do not take this claim seriously. However, if you turn to Eurostat again, Estonia's price level compared to the European Union average was 68.1% in 2010. And let us now look at the Nordic countries: Denmark 137.2% compared to the European Union average, Estonia 68.1%. Denmark belongs to the Nordic countries, with a figure of 137.2%. This is the highest price level in the European Union. It seems to me that 68 and 137 are not equal numbers. It's not! Sweden's 122.9% prices compared to the EU average, Luxembourg comes between 120% in the Nordic countries and then Finland's 119.3%. Once again, the price level in Estonia was only 68.1% of the European Union average in 2010. You mentioned that the government does not want to lower excise duties because more money is needed in the budget. Basically, your brother spoke of the same thing as the need for more money in the budget. I answer: yes, the budget urgently needs money to pay pensions in order to pay the teachers' salaries in order to pay the rescue officers' wages. That really requires money in the budget. And taxes serve this purpose. The budget needs money to make the state work, and taxes, of course, also have to regulate certain human behaviour. I therefore consider it absolutely right that, for example, excise duties on alcohol or tobacco will increase. According to the Human Development Report, which you have just quoted, Estonia is the 34th country in the world. Estonia is among the countries with very high levels of human development. I am pleased that Mr Heimar Lenk compared Estonia to Luxembourg. It still sets the example of ambition, the most successful, the richest, and the effort to get from 34 to the first five, but to become the first. This is an ambitious objective for which, I think, we should all work. So thank you for your support. Estonia is making an effort. Our economic growth last year was the fastest in the European Union: 7.6% of GDP. Now from the European Union budget, from the multiannual budgetary framework for 2014 to 2020. It is completely wrong to see that money is allocated to the budget in the European Union according to what is said in slippery language by one person or another, or written by newspapers from one country or another. The money is still allocated in a specific comparison between the Member States, based on specific parameters, and disputes are primarily about how to interpret any parameters in the context of the European Union. And also, in Estonia, corporate income is taxed...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U128	Good Prime Minister, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U129	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U130	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U131	It's such an important message. I assumed that absolutely everyone in Estonia knew this, that the income of companies in Estonia was taxed. It's about the time of taxation. Reinvested profits have not been taxed in Estonia. As long as the company does not withdraw profits, there will be no tax due on it. As soon as the company distributes dividends, 21% must be paid on the dividends. Just as all the citizens of the state pay, companies pay, whether they are big or small, whether their owners are citizens of the Republic of Estonia or outside the Republic of Estonia. It is wrong to say that the profits of companies have not been taxed in Estonia, and it is entirely wrong to expect income from the taxation of profits of companies. Finally. You have raised a rhetorical question about what to do with poverty, and you have also proposed a solution: there is a need to increase revenue and progressive income tax must be introduced to increase revenue. Unfortunately, in this case, we are not fighting poverty, but we are introducing a tax system that favours poverty. And that is certainly not what I want for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U132	Thank you. Dear colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, your name was not mentioned in the Prime Minister's speech. I can't open the discussion. We will not open the discussion in this case. [[The cavalry.]] We can discuss it forever, because everyone here usually has their own views. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U133	Thank you. I would like to add to the words of the Prime Minister on the 'Baltic welfare state' section of the Human Development Report. I will read to you exactly what has been said here: 'The Baltic States are, however, lagging behind in terms of the size of social benefits, the minimum wage level and the share of social protection in GDP, as compared to the developed welfare countries. Relatively low subsidies are unable to bring people out of poverty and to increase their well-being. ' It must also be borne in mind that the Baltic States are at a very low level in terms of minimum wages and old-age pensions compared to other countries in the European Union. Only Bulgaria and Romania have even lower minimum wages than the three Baltic countries. Such little examples of our level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U134	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U135	The next item is the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas, Tarmo Tamme, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velman, on 12 April of this year, concerning the suspicion of corruption in buildings without a building permit (No 154). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U136	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Colleagues! This is the fourth time I've been on the remote. You don't need to read the text. I'd rather ask you a few questions. But at first, the core of the problem. Some time ago, the National Audit Office carried out one audit, during which 85 objects were controlled in eight rural municipalities around the city of Tartu and Tallinn. It turned out that 48 of the 85 new buildings had been built illegally. The first time I asked you this question, there were pictures of these houses. None of them are cheaper than a million kroons, I think the most modest costs so much. There are also those that pay, I would like to estimate this, EUR 300000 to EUR 400000. This is illegal construction because these sites do not have a building permit. So we are in a situation where a state institution, a very respected National Audit Office, has carried out an inspection and publicly declared it with a loud voice: see, we have 48 cases, 48 buildings, each of which should be examined how it was possible to build it without the documents being finalised. These are perfectly clear violations of law! And in many of these buildings, people are already living inside, and it can be dangerous to their lives and health, because they do not have a right of use, they are not coordinated We first referred this question to the Minister of Justice. Since no one paid attention to the performances from this remote control, we asked the Minister of Justice. It wasn't very long ago when he answered in this hall, giving answers that summarily sounded like it was none of our business or his business. And he proposed that the Minister of the Interior address those who should deal with these matters. Because, as you can see from the title of the inquiry, there is a serious suspicion of corruption. Yes, of course, we are living at a strange time where a suspicious citizen can charge a financial framework that does not exceed, for example, EUR 500, and on this basis, 30 of the Special Branch employees go to work all night, search something. On the other hand, we have clear cases that need clarification. Because if there's corruption at stake, we have to get it over with. This cannot be continued. Maybe I wouldn't be so annoying about this, but the National Audit Office came with this problem to the Special Audit Committee on State Budget Control. We took note of the National Audit Office's report. This means, however, that as members of the Riigikogu, we must understand what is happening on this issue and find a solution. Is it allowed to break the law in the Republic of Estonia, for example, when it comes to construction and planning law? Why aren't these cases investigated? Or is it being investigated? That's what we're gonna find out today. And what's the point of controlling this kind of action, which is to try to detect these violations of law, if, after all this is revealed, our Ministry of Justice and the Department of the Interior are not doing anything about it? Or maybe they will? But that's what we're hearing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U137	Thank you. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable questioners! There are three questions, and these are all related to each other. In short, it is asked whether the Ministry of the Interior has investigated the possibility of corruption in 48 new buildings. How is it possible that the National Audit Office's report has not been responded to so far and how much will the Ministry of Internal Affairs monitor the results of the reports? The purpose of the audit of the National Audit Office was to evaluate the activities of the rural municipalities bordering Tallinn and Tartu in ensuring the legality of the construction of buildings. It was assessed whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as the controller of the construction register, has ensured that the data contained in the building register of the buildings being completed are correct. Thus, the purpose of this audit was not so much to address the possible detection of suspected corruption, but to draw attention to major shortcomings in the system of registration of buildings, building permits and permits. This audit by the National Audit Office also does not refer to specific possible cases of corruption in which the official would have received corrupt income or would have caused material damage in accordance with the nature of the offence as a result of the official's activities. As you know, good questioners, the National Audit Office has sufficient powers and rights to identify possible factors of corruption. The National Audit Office has an obligation to inform law enforcement authorities immediately, and the National Audit Office has also done so in many cases when their reports have been finally confirmed. This is a well-established practice. The issue of investigating suspected cases of corruption on the basis of reports is, as we know, not within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior does not carry out any misdemeanours or criminal proceedings to that end, we know we have law enforcement agencies, for that we have the criminal police. As far as local governments as a whole are concerned, there are six major municipalities, on which the defence police do so, and the prosecutor's office, on the other hand, as head of criminal proceedings. This audit concerns the area of administration of the Minister for Regional Affairs. The Minister of Regional Affairs is the second minister at the Ministry of the Interior. In the course of carrying out the audit, i.e. already at the end of 2010, the Regional Minister addressed in writing to all the local government leaders with a request to seriously analyse the performance of the functions assigned to the municipalities by the Construction Act and to find as effective measures as possible to identify illegal buildings, to ensure the correct entry of existing buildings in the national building register and to correct address details. Finally, I can say so much that in the audit report of the National Audit Office to which you refer, it is proposed that the population register be linked to the national building register. This is in the work plan of the Regional Minister in 2012, which the Minister for Regional Affairs has agreed to. This would mean creating the possibility for the registrar to link existing buildings and their residents, which would also prevent discrepancies between address data in different registers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U139	Thank you very much. Please ask a question, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U140	Thank you. Minister, I am deeply grateful to you for this very sincere answer. I've always said that life is much more fantastic than any fiction that is capable of one brain or another. I have only one question, and technically it is only possible to ask one question. Right now, I see a point in asking you one thing. At first, I turned to the Minister of Justice. He pointed the finger at you. I turned to you. You just pointed the finger at the regional minister. Obviously, tomorrow-the day after tomorrow, I'm going to turn in the next question, then I'll talk to the Minister of Regional Affairs. What's your version of whom he's pointing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U141	Thank you very much for your question. I haven't pointed a finger at anyone. I'm having second thoughts about the Minister of Justice pointing a finger at someone. I think that any minister can answer the question you have asked in the same way: in the Republic of Estonia, the law enforcement authorities are conducting investigations, criminal proceedings. You know this very well as a member of the Riigikogu. No other minister, no minister, will initiate misdemeanor proceedings, no criminal proceedings. This will be done by law enforcement authorities when circumstances pointing to possible offences have been identified. I have looked again at the three questions you have asked. They can only be answered in such a way that the National Audit Office is very competent and cooperates closely with law enforcement authorities. Where possible references to offences have been identified, law enforcement authorities shall be informed accordingly. Whether this has been done in this case must be asked the National Audit Office. I expect that you have also discussed this on 6 June 2011 when the National Audit Office also gave a comprehensive overview of the results of this audit to the Commission under your leadership. From these slides, you've picked out these statements and written them as questions. I referred to the Minister for Regional Affairs in an attempt to respond very constructively to your sincere concerns, I hope, as a result of this audit. This audit mainly referred, as has also been mentioned, to problems relating to the registration of various permits. Of course, there is always a question of why such violations occur in local governments. For its part, the Minister for Regional Affairs has also taken steps that he can take. For example, the interconnection of the two registers is intended to make buildings and their residents clearly associated, which avoids discrepancies between address data in the different registers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U142	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U143	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now let's try to follow that logic. Imagine such a situation that, for example, the health service comes to a café somewhere to check how they have cleanliness, food preparation conditions, etc. When controlling all of this, a number of drugs, for example, are discovered in parallel. It shall be indicated and notified. However, if you listen to what the Minister has just said, it can be concluded that since their aim was not to detect drugs, no one needs to react to it. At the moment the logic was this: the National Audit Office went to check something else, discovered these illegal buildings, but since their aim was not to detect or investigate the unlawfulness of buildings, no one has to do anything. Or the Labour Inspectorate will go somewhere to the factory and discover that underground weapons are being made there, but since they have gone to check the working conditions, no one will be doing this because that was not their purpose. That is the logic that the Minister was trying to explain to us right now. I think every story has to have a logical ending. I hope it's more or less understandable to a normal person. Personally, I'm from a local government where any move to the left-right is already verifiable. I just can't think of how to build without a building permit. In my view, it is such a huge violation that I simply cannot imagine what could be more serious in economic life. For this reason, it is extremely surprising to me how our ministers view such violations. But we'll probably get smarter in time. Now let's ask the regional minister, he's definitely pointing somewhere else. We're working on the question. The job commends the doer. Looks like a lot of fun to come from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U144	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U145	Next are the members of the Riigikogu Kadri Simson, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Jüri Ratas, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman and Mailis Repsi on 11 April. a. a request for information on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) (No 152). My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U146	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, An inquiry into the European Stability Mechanism was handed over to the Riigikogu 47 days ago. In the course of their questioning, the respondents announced that after the Treaty of Accession to the European Stability Mechanism was signed in February in the Riigikogu, the conditions were known that the mechanism should start on 1 July 2012 and that the rescue fund initially amounted to EUR 500 billion. The EUR 80 billion of paid-up capital had to be paid up by euro area countries in equal shares over a period of five years. However, at the end of March, euro area finance ministers agreed at a meeting in Copenhagen to increase the lending capacity of the European Stability Funds from EUR 500 billion to EUR 800 billion. It was also agreed that ESM's paid-up capital would be paid up faster than initially planned. The first instalment shall be paid by July of that year, i.e. after 35 days, and by October at the latest. As a result, from July 2012 the ESM will be the main instrument for financing new aid programmes and the EFSF will continue to finance programmes that were started earlier. At the same time as the Finance Ministers agreed to extend this programme in Copenhagen, the situation in Estonia was already such that Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder had expressed his opinion and referred it to the Supreme Court that the provision of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, which in exceptional cases allows decisions on financial support to the States Parties to the Stability Mechanism to be taken by a majority of 85%, is contrary to the Estonian Constitution, because that means that Estonia will be bound even if Estonia disagrees with it. With regard to the situation where the Estonian state is now, we have put five questions to the Minister of Finance, which I will not read out, because it is more convenient for the Minister to do so himself and to answer the questions immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U147	Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. I would like to ask the honourable Minister for Finance for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U148	Thank you for these questions. I will use every opportunity to enlighten the public. In committees and press conferences, however, this inquiry generally shows that there is insufficient explanation. I'm specifying the inaccuracies in the Preamble about numbers. First of all, the capital of the ESM is EUR 700 billion, of which 80 billion is payable. And the ESM's lending capacity is still 500 billion, not 800 billion euros. But the 800 you mentioned, I believe you meant the total volume that is said to be on the firewalls of Europe at all. The ESM has been merged, the EFSF loans already issued, the EFSM, which is a loan project at the level of the European Union budget, as well as the bilateral Greek loans of 52.9 billion, which have already been issued. In addition, Europe has its own contribution to strengthening the resources of the IMF. It is not so directly linked to Europe's firewall, but basically everyone understands that Europe's contribution to it is linked to the reputational problems that have arisen around Europe. It is 150 in the euro area, with a total of 200 in Europe. And now the questions. First of all: if the Supreme Court finds that the provisions of the Treaty are in conflict with the Constitution, how is Estonia even able to join the ESM? Already in the preamble, you had a reference that it was as if the government should have known that this step was against the Constitution. First of all, this matter is in court, and the court states what may be a breach of the Constitution and how strong it is. The Chancellor of Justice wrote his letter when there were a few days left until the signing decision or, more precisely, until the signature was given a mandate, and there were no further possibilities for opening up the contract in this process. He wrote his letter at the end of January, and within practically a few days, our ambassador, who signed it, was to be authorized. You don't want to mysticize letters from the Chancellor of Justice. I looked it up for interest: in two years, the Chancellor of Justice has written 91 letters. He is not the one who says whether or not there is a violation of the Constitution. We await the opinion of the Supreme Court. We have explained our arguments thoroughly. There is certainly something you can argue about in the Chancellor of Justice's statements, and there is certainly something you cannot argue about in them. There are also gross errors in this document, which does not mean that his entire application's fate is predetermined. The second question: was the journalist wrong when he wrote that the ESM contribution was a financing transaction and comparable to the purchase of shares? No, the journalist was not wrong, and you certainly are not wrong as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs if you define it that way. It's a financial transaction. Third: the impact of EFSF and ESM on Estonia's debt burden. Doesn't the increase in the debt burden make the Minister bitter? These things still make sense bitter, but the debt burden is directly affected by the EFSF as far as the loan it issues is concerned. The guarantee does not directly affect the debt burden. And in the case of ESM, we can say that we are serving this capital at the expense of reserves when the court gives this opportunity. The EFSF should have an impact on Estonia's debt ratio at peak of 3.1% of GDP. It is clear that this is an important amount, but at European level, it is microscopic. These figures would be very good figures for the year's deficit in Europe, but Europe is, unfortunately, far from it. Of course, helping irresponsible people in any way makes my mind bitter, which doesn't mean I won't. They have clearly taken the path of repentance, and their economies have started to adapt as well. Next: In 2016, we expect the impact of the EFSF to decrease from 3.1% to 2.6%. Repayments will also start. It is also expected that GDP will grow in nominal terms. But it's a book debt and it doesn't involve an interest burden, but it should add interest income. Question 4: How would Estonia finance ESM capital contributions? Should the second contribution be made from the state budget? This is, as I said, a financial transaction and 30 million euros is the amount already in the budget. But really, this decision made at European level to speed up the contributions is such a thing that the implementation of the two of this year's payments will require a change in our budget. This is also what we discussed in the Eurogroup two months ago, and my proposal was also going through, that if the agreement was before it was decided in October, then a clause was included, given that, respecting national budgetary procedures. And our budgetary procedures foresee that this can be done by December at the latest. I do not believe that we have to show this amount more in October. Question 5: How likely do you think that the credit capacity of the stability mechanism could be further enhanced? It is not really a question of divination; it is a question of decision. I am not a supporter of credit enhancement, but the decision will be taken by consensus if it is decided so. As of now, I do not think that it is likely to be seriously on the agenda. But especially on the sidelines, such grand suggestions have been made that we keep strengthening the firewall. I guess that's why we gave this $800 billion figure to the 500 billion to point out what instruments are all in place. It doesn't necessarily just have to be an ESM. One was that we would raise to a trillion, and the other was that we should raise to two trillion. Our answer was, please, here's a trillion dollars for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U149	We cannot join it if the Riigikogu cannot ratify it due to the decision of the Supreme Court. Then, of course, the situation is very embarrassing, because we have been very good collaborators in Europe and have achieved very good results with the help of our allies. As far as the ESM is concerned, I recall that, at first, almost alone, I was relatively stubbornly able to push through a more favourable attitude towards the ESM. I was even advised not to do this at home, but the result came. Or we will take the debate on direct payments for agriculture, where we have once again been consistent in our line of work, have spoken out strongly and have already reached a credible chance that the Baltic States will be granted an exception. This is what Estonia has done, I have done personally. Once again, it is a question of our credibility: it is a bad thing if we keep our own bets aside, for some legal reasons, but still. Circumvention is a fact. The other countries that join the ESM are 16, they also have constitutions, they also have major requests for independence. But they're gonna do it. And we think, then, that is actually the content of the dispute, that we should, in each case, have a veto right equal to those with a 15% stake. After all, the content of the dispute is whether, in a very exceptional situation, there is a right of veto for small-scale countries. As a rule, this applies, which is a major exception for financial institutions. In the event of extremely sudden financial instability, says point 4.4 of the Treaty, a high-skilled majority of 85% must be used to make the decision pass. The principle is that when the European Central Bank and the European Commission are proposed, their analysts, and this is a neutral proposal, a small-scale individual country cannot block a decision. That should be legally accurate. That's what we're arguing about. Most decisions are made by consensus, but in a very exceptional situation, a very large majority of 85 + n% is required to make a decision. The Chancellor of Justice believes that, in this situation too, the participation is 0.18% or whatever is equal to 15%. We don't think so. I also do not believe that the Supreme Court will make a black or white decision. The Supreme Court makes a rather complicated decision that probably doesn't like anyone very much. But it's just that there's gonna be a decision in everything that agrees with the Chancellor of Justice, I can't imagine. Only the Eurosceptics who were present in the courtroom, who, in fact, were unable to consider the arguments at all when they appeared under the name of legal experts, but instead presented their vision of the world, which was quite diverse.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U150	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U151	Thank you. Minister of Finance! The mechanism should start on 1 July 2012. At the same time, our Supreme Court has announced that in order to decide whether this is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, they need additional time, and they will probably not make their decision before 1 July 2012. If this decision is as the government fears, if this decision is such that the limitation to 85% of the votes is against the Estonian Constitution, will Estonia be able to break away from this mechanism after 1 July?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U152	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! The latest news about Europe is as if austerity has been abandoned. What's that supposed to mean? Will it be re-borrowed, or what would it mean for Estonia, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U153	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U154	There's nothing you can do to give up on a casino. Or it would be better to use the word'responsibility'. Europe will not give up its responsibility. The countries that opt out will become insolvent, that is clear. Europe has lived much more than its own, and the countries that are talking a lot about it are still in a particularly poor position. It is no secret that we are talking about the south, mostly countries bordering the Mediterranean. The fact that there was an election somewhere and a rhetorical aim of the growth strategy does not change the fact that it is being spent beyond force. Growth problems are not insufficient in public spending, but in structural reforms. At the last meeting of finance ministers, any growth rhetoric was killed, which was not interpreted as structural reforms that support growth. After all, these structural reforms have been known to exist in countries in need, as well as in others who suffer from excessive deficits. These are the removal of restrictions on competition, opening up the European internal market, liberalising the labour market, ensuring the sustainability of the social system. This is what would actually guarantee certainty, the opportunity to invest. Estonia is on the other side in this sense. We have mostly made structural reforms, we have investment capacity, we have growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U155	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call my colleague, Kadri Simson, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by reacting to the first sentence of the Minister of Finance, where he was delighted to be able to talk about the ESM in the Riigikogu for a while. He's had little opportunity to introduce the ESM in this room. To remind you of the discussions on the aid packages in the euro area here in the Riigikogu, last year there was only one important debate on this issue of national importance. This took place on the initiative of the Centre Party Group and we then listened to the views of Economic Professor Urmas Varblas and Indrek Neivelt. There was a very lively round of questions and answers. From there, we, as a group, referred to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to continue the debate on this committee. This was followed by a long silence, which, in the meantime, was interrupted by an urgent vote one evening before the anniversary of the Republic, when, without further analysis and passing past the normal procedure of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure, the election to the ESM was voted. And so we are in a situation where, apart from the discussion of the Supreme Court, there was a great deal in the public that such substantive debates and in-depth inclusion should not only take place in the Supreme Court, but the right place is the Riigikogu. At the moment, we can say that, probably around Midsummer Day, ratification is once again an attempt to enter the Riigikogu Hall. This means, however, that the debate will be suppressed and the machine of votes works, so it is always when something needs to be ratified quickly. But our inquiry was still borne by the concern that Estonia's obligations are so great when it comes to joining such packages that if a negative scenario starts and it turns against not the borrower, but against us as the guarantor, then the burden is so severe that we cannot bear it. In fact, we should not hesitate to say that this cup may pass us by and that it is better than the two bad ones. Such things need to be explained to people much more than they have done so far. As far as the discussion at the Supreme Court is concerned, the Chancellor of Justice has confirmed that he is not just numb to anything, that he is not opposed to Estonia's accession to the ESM, but the question is at the point of urgent procedure. From there on: if we join the ESM, our opinion will no longer be considered important; other countries will decide on our commitments for us. And this political rhetoric, that if we did not join, if we did not ratify, all the rest of the euro countries would look upset at us, because we are 'avoidances', I think it is appropriate to end this speech by quoting the Chancellor of Justice, that following the Constitution does not mean that our allies will turn away from us. We have experienced this in other countries, where our Parliament is considered to be more important when making such weighty decisions. And we have always respected countries where parliamentary democracy prevails and where this principle is based. Why should we not think that our own constitution will be understood in our case too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U157	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Please, Minister of Finance, you will have the opportunity to participate in our negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U158	A few comments. The urgency procedure is certainly not in favour of the government, but of course we would do our best to process it in the Riigikogu and to process it by the deadline of 1 July. I therefore mean here the urgent procedure of the Riigikogu. As regards the urgency procedure in the ESM, once again: it is to ensure its own financial stability. We have long explained in the context of the case that non-response losses, if such an assessment is made by a neutral expert, are greater than the possible financial loss otherwise. The fact that other countries decide for us is simply a flawed opinion. We belong to these countries ourselves, we are no one outside. The ESM isn't some monster that's gonna decide for us, and the other 16 aren't either. And the probability that we really need a certain decision is at least five or six times greater than that we're going to be in a minority. To assume all the time that we need to protect ourselves from Europe and only to pay for money, ourselves without receiving anything in return, it is, in fact, absurd. The ESM will also not work if countries fail to fulfil their obligations. I mean, these sums of money in themselves aren't too much for us. The ESM does not operate in such a way that it turns to the Member States in case of an emergency. He's making buffers. The ESM is a very conservatively functioning organisation and it can handle itself. He can also borrow from the market. He doesn't lend out capital, he borrows out money borrowed from the market. And even if it suffers losses, first of all, it will not fail to collect it and, secondly, it will not turn to the Member States. This is one of the absurdities that the Chancellor of Justice and his team have in their arguments. To say that the urgency procedure is a very dangerous thing, I repeat, that the ESM is an IMF European analogue and there is no urgent procedure in the IMF. All loan decisions will be made by simple majority vote. But no one's been here and used the same rhetoric. In fact, the IMF puts money in the most diverse regions of the world, in some places the risk is much higher and the beneficial impact for us much less. And you have not murmured. This is just one example of how one detailed European IMF can be challenged without context, without contesting the entire decades of IMF practice, in which decisions are taken by simple majority. As far as evasion is concerned, of course, in this case we are in the status of circumvention. Of course, our credibility in the various negotiations is quite different. Of course, our reputation is ruined. There's nothing to argue about, it's like that. We are expected to have a solution: do something, don't drive a rabbit! You need to find a legal solution to be able to contribute yourself, not only to be the beneficiary of the various funds, but also to be the beneficiary of the general stability framework. As a rabbit, we did not strive for the euro zone. In this sense, Estonia will undoubtedly be treated less favourably if we remain sidelined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U159	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U160	The next question is the question of the forthcoming amendments to the Tax and Customs Board (No 158) submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laasi, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas and Viktor Vassilyev on 18 April this year. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U161	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The press has considered the proposed changes in the structure and work of the Tax and Customs Board, which envisages the transfer of work organisation from regional to sectoral models. Instead of the four administrative service areas so far, a single area is proposed. Regional centres located in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Jõhvi will be liquidated and the centres of competence will continue to operate instead. As a result of restructuring, 160 jobs will be made redundant, 40 of which are currently outstanding. These changes have so far been explained to the public inadequately, which is why we put four questions to the Minister of Finance. The inquiry has been submitted to us on 18 April and is based on information published in the press at the time. I'm not going to read questions in terms of saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U162	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Please, dear Minister of Finance, back to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to explain, although I do not think that the internal organisation of all public authorities is a mandatory subject of a public debate at all. The relationship between public authorities and the public may be discussed, but their internal working arrangements may not necessarily be the subject of discussion, except in the case of a privileged structure. In this case, this is a responsible reform, which I certainly support. The first question: 'What are the drawbacks of the current work of the Tax and Customs Board, which requires a substantial change in the system? " There are no other direct shortcomings that need to be explained here; simply a clumsy structure needs to be changed. There is no reason to keep four service areas where, in essence, one level of control can be used for the service, but there are no two levels of control required. All in all, that's enough of the two levels. The tax administration's relationship with taxpayers has changed dramatically over the last few years, precisely in relation to the development of the e-state. All of us know how we fill in the tax return in a dominant way by doing it electronically. Companies also have a basically electronic relationship with the tax administration. There is no need for complex governance structures to keep it up. The volume of e-services is the main cause of change, and neither individuals nor companies interact physically with the tax administration anymore. As regards why we have to change it, the aim is, of course, to rationalise expenditure. The IRS would like to motivate its employees, want to invest, not maintain unnecessary structures and clumsy support services. The main source of wage increases is the rationalisation of the public sector, not the new financial allocations. The second question: 'Are you sure that the quality of service for people and businesses will not suffer in the implementation of the changes and will not increase bureaucracy in communication with the officials of the Agency? " This will certainly cut red tape if one level of governance disappears. The client does not suffer from this reduction, rather the opposite. After all, it is also a question of quality, how effective the structures are how much more sensible money can be channelled. This isn't about taking away money. Just employees get better motivation, investments are more profitable, and we can say that the taxpayer will be better served. Ultimately, however, taxes will be better collected, as tax checks on tax collectors will be more frequent. Soon we will also send a draft amendment to the Tax Administration Act to the Riigikogu, according to which the tax authority and the debtor, unless they agree otherwise, will carry out the procedure in the offices of the tax authorities closest to the person's place of residence. There's no danger of running far away. When the President gave an example of Paide in his anniversary speech on regional policy, the first question undoubtedly scratched the ears of the tax administration. But the fact is that the customer service unit will remain in Paide and no one will run the client to Jõhvi in the future. Even if there were cases like this before, there are no such cases now, and frankly, I can't imagine how this could have happened at all. Maybe I need to check out why one of Paide's taxpayers had to go to Jõhvi. In general, taxpayers do not communicate with this level of the Centre. The third question: 'How is it planned to help workers made redundant to find new jobs? 'The Estonian Tax and Customs Board, for its part, provides maximum information to the people there, advises them, assists in preparing a CV. People are valuable, and no one wants to hurt people. Rather, it is a painful step for every driver. It would be easier not to do so and to allow unnecessary positions to continue to work. In new circumstances, they really become unnecessary. During May, meetings will be held with representatives of the unemployment fund who advise these people. I very much hope that those who are not offered an opportunity in the new system will find a new job. Question 4: Has the regional impact of the proposed reform been analysed and has the regional minister, who has been appointed to stand up for regional development, been presented with the regional effects of the reform? 'Yeah, the regional minister is up to speed. With regard to regional impacts, so much so that redundancies are proportionate. It's not like they're gonna lay off somewhere far away and not at the center. Concentrations are regionally proportional. It could therefore be said that the regional policy effect is numerically non-existent. But I'm not one of those enthusiasts who think there's a region where you have to keep the jobs you don't need and at a price. I do not support such a thing; it is not appropriate either for human dignity or for the dignity of the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U164	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now the questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The answer was mainly about tax officials, but since it is the Tax and Customs Board, there is also the customs side involved. There are a few times for me, and I know that other operators who have had problems with border crossings have also called. According to the law, in places where customs officials are not permanently present, customs can be agreed upon, i.e. ordering customs. But the law does not oblige a customs officer to go there, and it has sometimes not been done and problems have arisen. Will the inch side suffer from this concentration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U166	I guess I'm talking about the IRS because that name sounds more mouthful. But customs has a slightly different nature, and customs tend to be more bet on at times. I do not dare say the exact proportions, but the restructuring of the county centres is primarily about taxation, not customs, to the extent that they can be distinguished at all. Nor was there a direct discussion of tax officials; they are still support services and leading specialists in the field. Those who directly deal with citizens and other customers are actually raising their contributions, their share is increasing. There will certainly be more opportunities to stimulate them financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U167	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Colleagues want to negotiate. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U168	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A while ago, perhaps a week a month has passed since then, we had a Euro Commission official in the Riigikogu who was interested in our tax system, including how the Tax and Customs Board works. I spent an hour and a half with him, and I finally had to admit to myself that I haven't been able to say anything positive for so long. Because although we have ideological problems with the tax system as a fundamental substance, there can be no claim as to how the Tax and Customs Board works. The job works like a watch. Try to remember when we have heard of some serious problems in this regard! We have the highest level of tax collection, as well as all that with regard to declaration. In my opinion, this office is working, if not perfectly, very well in any case. Why do we need to reform what already works? There are no reproaches. Now, that's hard to understand. At the same time, there are huge problems in other areas. Why do we need to start reforming another structure without knowing what will ultimately come out of it? In difficult times, certain neutrality needs to be maintained, at least for those who are helping to survive this time. The IRS is one of these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U169	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. The Minister of Finance also wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U170	First of all, of course, I would like to thank the opposition for congratulating the tax administration. However, modestly, I would say that there are shortcomings in every state office and that they could also be highlighted by the tax administration. However, as far as reforms are concerned, some of them are also caused by the tax administration and by the hard work of the Ministry of Finance. We have simply come to the point of serving customers in this area without having to spend doors. So this reform is being imposed by the resource released and the increase in quality. There is simply no need for this average level of governance. It's as simple as that. No customer needs it, and it will ultimately affect the dignity of the person who is not visited by the customers. He senses he's unnecessary. The number of visits by the Tax Administration is also rapidly decreasing at the first level. Ask the accountants how often they go to the IRS! I can say it's regionally different, but still. It is an electronic work, without the need to maintain any large support services. The contribution must be made to those who, be they in the customs or tax administration, carry out effective controls, ensure the collection of taxes and the service of taxpayers. These people we keep, these people we want to motivate. And we want their communication with the taxpayer to be even smoother, so that we can invest more effectively, not spend unnecessary work. That's the reason. Unfortunately, in the case of individual people, it also means losing a job, but they find a more productive place. This is how our society is structured, and it is not worth regretting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U171	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U172	The next item is Urve Palo, Neeme Suur, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Heljo Pikhofi, Inara Luigas, Andres Anvelt, Jaan Õunapuu, Eiki Nestor, Marianne Mikko and Deniss Borodichi presented on 10 April this year's inquiry into the domestic cost policy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications (No 150). My colleague Urve Palo in the chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U173	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Good, hardworking colleagues! In its pre-election propaganda, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association made a promise to reduce home expenses while in power. More than a year after the election, the president of the IRL explained, in the 'Forum' of 11 April this year, that the IRL meant only the possibility of borrowing through KredEx, with the support of European Union funds, and insulation of its apartment buildings. But people expect the power party to deliver on its promises and to deal more broadly and essentially with reducing domestic costs and reducing the associated prices and curbing their rise. This expectation is justified in every way, after all, it was promised! Unfortunately, the real picture is quite different. According to Statistics Estonia, administratively regulated prices for goods and services were almost 11% higher in April 2012 compared to April 2012. The biggest impact on the index was housing expenditure, which accounted for almost half of the total increase. Nearly 80% of these, in turn, accounted for nearly 14% of the electricity prices, as well as increased heat and gas prices. Similar data can be found for March. By the way, during the term of office of Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts, national taxes and charges for electricity have increased by 204%. Indoor VAT has increased from 5% to 20%. The average wage increase of 5.4% in 2011 was twice as low as the domestic cost increase. And no major positive change is expected this year, when the Ministry of Finance is forecasting an increase in average wages to slow at 3.8%. The large increase in home expenses affects most people in Estonia, but particularly vulnerable groups are elderly and families with children, whose housing costs represent an important part of monthly expenses during the winter period. In addition to the inability and unwillingness to hold back the growth in home spending, the government also has no good news of how it intends to otherwise improve families' livelihoods, whether by increasing child support or other benefits or by other measures to ease their livelihood. Therefore, 11 members of the Riigikogu ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, how the minister intends to reduce the record price increase in the area of his government, who has been in office for five years and promised to lower home expenses. We also want to know how the state plans to meet the requirement of the Euro Directives that room and electricity should be services that must be available to everyone in the minimum agreed list. And with what measures does the government intend to mitigate electricity prices due to the opening of the electricity market in January 2013? Electricity is likely to increase by 16% to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U174	Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U175	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Before I answer the questions, I would like to set out your malicious remark between the election promise of my party and the alleged reality. If you look again at the election program of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, then call 'Home expenses'! " There were five basic promises, and we will all keep them. I wouldn't disparage the call 'Home expenses'! ' under the objective set for the renewal of our housing fund. As I would like to point out in response to this question, we believe that this is actually the thing that every person and family in Estonia can achieve real savings, regardless of what fuel prices do, whether they are dependent on world market prices or on the price fluctuations in energy production in our region. We know that heat costs represent the largest share of the budget of each family. A 50% saving in warm costs is a significant saving for a long time, regardless of the changes made by fuel prices. Coming now to your questioning, I would first like to ask you to be correct in this regard as well and not to desiccate not only my constituents, but all the people of Estonia, until the newspaper and statement are made. It has been our sincere desire, but it has been taken into account with varying success. But now the first question: 'How do you intend to mitigate the increase in electricity and heat energy in a situation where you have been a minister for five years and in your government area, despite your promises to lower home costs, the record price increase has taken place? '' First of all, this is certainly a very ambitious but unsubstantiated statement that there has been a record price increase in the area of government of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Let's look at the facts. In 2006, electricity in Estonia cost 2.67 cents per kilowatt hour and the network fee was 3.9 cents per kilowatt hour. In 2011, electricity cost 3,2 cents per kilowatt hour and the network fee was 3,9 cents per kilowatt hour. In other words, the network charges fell in the meantime, in 2008, and rose back to their previous levels by 2011. I'll talk about the reasons a little bit later. Basically, investments in our entire electricity network and in connections with other countries are necessary in order to create a better market situation in electricity supply. The same applies to the price of electricity. If we look at this increase and compare it with inflation, the increase in electricity prices has been significantly lower than inflation. Think of the fact that electricity is also produced by people who work, using different fuels, the price of which is all under the influence of inflation. The result, however, is that electricity prices have actually changed significantly less than the overall consumer price index over a period of five years. This is due to a significant increase in efficiency on the one hand, but I do not doubt that it would be worth highlighting another important point in our electoral programme, i.e. real control over prices, if prices are coordinated by the Competition Authority. The main increase in electricity prices has been for two reasons. These decisions have been taken here in the Riigikogu. We know that in 2007, the renewable energy charge was set at zero in the consumer budget, now accounting for almost 10%. On the one hand, it is positive, it shows that we have increased the share of renewable energy according to our strategy, but of course the position of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has been, including my view that the decision of the Riigikogu in 2007 was exaggerated. This is unfairly unbalanced from the point of view of consumers and renewable energy charges need to be adjusted. At the same time, I have not heard any real-life proposals from the questioning party on how renewable energy fees could be adjusted. It is certainly worth discussing, but your position has been rather protective of the existing renewable energy charges and the whole system than the other way around. The exact same measure is the electric excise duty. The electric excise duty was implemented by virtue of agreements with the European Union and, as far as I know, the Social Democrats were in the government at the time, so I do not want to say anything, it was a necessary decision. The electric excise duty has been imposed by the Riigikogu. I also do not believe that reducing excise duty will help to alleviate social problems; any differences in excise duty are evenly distributed. It is most ineffective to try to solve social problems by making distinctions in indirect taxes. This is what we actually encourage, if you use your rhetoric, the rich, but not those who have difficulty coping with it. The main increase in the final price of electricity, about 17%, is the price of renewable energy, the resulting large increase in renewable energy in our energy portfolio and the electricity excise duty imposed by the Riigikogu. It is also important to note the investments that we inevitably have to make in the energy economy, in view of the increase in both Estonia's energy security and security of supply, in order to avoid Estonia becoming more dependent on imports of electricity, especially from countries that are not members of the European Union. Investments such as Estlink 2, emergency reserve stations, but also investments in upgrading Narva stations are very large projects that would not be done in order. Network connections and emergency stations, of course, also have an impact on the network tariff, but these are very important things and the consequences of not doing them would actually cost us all even more in the end. Another important thing to note is the price of electricity compared to the prices of other countries. According to Eurostat, Estonia has been consistently one of the most favoured electricity countries in the European Union. Only in Bulgaria has the price been less than ours. It is easy to say that electricity could be produced and sold much cheaper, but by now, after the partial opening of the electricity market, the term 'best before' has passed. Following the full opening of the market on 1 January 2013, this talk is a spoiled commodity because the market is open to all producers and sellers. Anyone who sees a good opportunity to produce and sell electricity is welcome to do so immediately, not just to tell about it. The third aspect worth mentioning in this question is that the market prices of energy carriers do not necessarily depend on who is the Minister for Economic Affairs or who is currently asking about something. For example, the cost of heat produced by liquid fuel boilers is close to 80% of the consumer's final price. That is why my home spending policy, as well as that of my party, is aimed not at overshadowing prices, but at saving energy. The state has been determined to encourage a wide range of energy saving investments here. I believe that this is the right way to go, and this action must certainly be continued on a larger scale in the next financial period of the European Union. The second question: 'Toasoe and electricity are, under the Euro Directives, services that must be available to everyone among the minimum agreed ones, and it is the task of the state to find these levers how to make it happen. What new national measures are planned to take or modernise existing ones in order to meet the above requirement? ' The reconstruction of apartment buildings has been publicly supported since 2003. Recently, support has also been added for the reconstruction of small houses and the acquisition and installation of local renewable energy production equipment. Through KredEx, EUR 59 million of Structural Funds and quota sales money are earmarked to support the energy-saving reconstruction of the housing fund and to raise people's awareness of the potential for a more energy-efficient life. In these areas, we will continue to try to support and motivate people. Seeing owners' willingness to invest in efficient energy use, the government is trying to find the means to leverage these investments. We will also contribute to increasing the energy efficiency of public buildings and housing funds with additional measures for the next Structural Funds programming period. Applications for housing renovation support were ca 400 by the end of May. The average savings to be achieved are significant in terms of 40%. The public has been introduced to these experiments. For example, the Estonian Television programme 'Ringview' organised an experiment and compared the heating costs of a house that was insulated and not insulated. The difference was double. That's the 'Home expenses down! ' slogan. To this end, we need to contribute a little and call on people to heat up and, if necessary, to contribute. We also have to take into account that 97 to 98% of our housing fund belongs to private individuals, not to the state or local authorities. Smaller heat producers have so far been able to apply through the Environmental Investment Centre for grants for the renovation of both cogeneration plants and routes. This is definitely the direction to be maintained. A total of EUR 45 million has been allocated for four years under the relevant support measure to support the exchange of fuel from central heating and local heating boilers. The savings achieved have contributed to reducing and stabilising district heating prices in different regions. This answer certainly does not mean that the field of activity is no longer wide enough in this area. There must certainly be additional money, given the specificity of several rural areas and settlements in Estonia. Question 3: '2013. In 2008, Estonia will join the Nordic electricity market, which is why we will buy electricity on the stock market. Today, the price of the electricity market closed in Estonia is nearly 45% lower than the price of electricity on the open market in Nord Pool Spot's Estonian price area, which means that the basic electricity price will increase by this percentage. As the share of the basic tariff is ca 30% in consumers' electricity bills, the final electricity price for the consumer will increase by approximately 16%. What measures is the government planning to take to mitigate the coming rise in electricity prices in January 2013? ' First of all, the argument put forward in the question that the price of the closed electricity market in Estonia is nearly 45% lower than the price in Nord Pool Spot's Estonian price area. I looked it up. You submitted an inquiry on 10 April. The price of this day's power exchange in the Estonian price area was 40.5 euros in megawatt-hour, i.e. approximately 27% higher than the regulated price. The average price on the stock exchange in April was EUR 36 megawatt-hour, which is 17% higher than the regulated price, rather than 45%. I have given this example not because there is some way to criticise you for this proposed percentage, but rather to prove that the price of electricity is fluctuating in the open market. There have also been days recently when it has been cheaper than the regulated price, and there have been months like this. At the same time, we cannot base the forecasting of the price of electricity on the prices of this year alone. When compared to Finland with longer-term experience in the electricity market, in 2007 the price of electricity in the Finnish price area was the same as the price regulated in Estonia. But a year ago, in 2006, the average price of the Finnish region was 65% more expensive than our regulated price. However, the price trend for the Estonian region in 2012 has been lower than in 2011 if we compare the first four months. The European Union is committed to opening up the pan-European electricity market from 2015. This means that different price areas will disappear and the electricity generation portfolio will become much more diverse than it has been in the Nordic countries so far. Thus competition and the selling price of electricity will also change greatly. For the sake of clarity, it should be added that the price of the open market does not necessarily equal the price of the stock exchange for the consumer. In practice, however, the price depends on the contracts concluded with the electricity seller. It is possible to agree on a price-dependent or fixed price. The price of a longer-term contract may be more favourable than the short-term price and therefore the risk of price increases can be mitigated by the conclusion of a long-term contract. However, cutting renewable energy subsidies is a real measure to help reduce the final price charged to consumers. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has submitted a draft to this effect. The Ministry is currently negotiating with major renewable energy investors in order to make subsidies proportionate to the objective pursued. Question four. Since there is little time, I will read only part of the question: 'Why does the proposal to amend the Electricity Market Act submitted by you to the Riigikogu not contain the provisions of the Electricity Market Directive, which would allow consumers to be further protected? For example, giving the regulator greater authority in consumer protection or banning the switch off of vulnerable consumers in critical times? '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U176	Minister, your time is up. Let's get to the questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U177	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Speaking of renewable energy subsidies, you threw a stone towards the opposition. But let's be honest, maybe it made you feel better, but it's your quarrel with the Reform Party. And even if the opposition offered your hand, you wouldn't dare accept it if it made your relationship with your coalition partner worse. My question, however, concerns KredEx grants. I have received a letter from a concerned homeowner in Pärnu who lives in a house with 48 apartments. The house was renovated by self-financing, the bank loan was taken and KredEx was later asked for support, but KredEx said that no support would be granted afterwards. But at the same time, the monthly account of the residents of this house received a "KredEx guarantee fee" at the same time. EUR 0,138 per square metre is to be paid. Can you explain what KredEx's guarantee fee is? Does this mean an increase in hidden home expenses again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U178	No, absolutely not. If I fully understood your question, it is likely that this renovation project has been carried out when KredEx's only measure was, if possible, to secure the loan taken by the housing associations. This guarantee is, of course, subject to a charge, but not profitable. KredEx provides such guarantees on a cost-based basis. Probably that's the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U179	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U180	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! I agree with you one hundred percent that the best measures to bring down home expenses are the transfer of boiler houses to chipped wood heating. The price win would be 15 to 20%, and it would also give work to local people and the money would remain in Estonia. I ask: why is it progressing so slowly, and why is there so little money to transfer boilers to chipping wood?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U181	As I said in my reply, EUR 45 million has been a public investment programme to support local authorities and heat companies depending on their location. I agree that this programme must be continued, and I see as the main source of revenue from the CO2 trading scheme, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. This money could be allocated to this programme. The new financial perspective for the European Union, which will be launched in 2014, should also be one of the options, as it can reduce people's real costs, on the one hand, and significantly increase energy efficiency, on the other. The key question, as we have spoken before in this Chamber, is not really so much our great cities. Small settlements, small towns and other smaller settlements are the problem, where specific solutions are likely to have to be developed to trigger such an incentive measure. A solution that is often suited to small amounts is no longer reasonable for a small town. We are now dealing with this and want to propose an action plan for the coming years at the latest by the end of the summer, given the situation that has developed in Estonia's warm economy. Very little has been done in several regions. Of course, it would also be possible to take the position that in many cases local authorities in these district-heating regions are responsible there are local government companies or there is a private company. However, our assessment is that companies in problem areas do not have the incentive to invest; consumer demand is not enough. We must somehow overcome this obstacle. I believe that, by the end of the summer, we will be able to introduce some more constructive action plan on how investment and repairing boiler houses for this purpose would get more momentum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U182	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I kept thinking about the home expenses and the roomwarm problem. The point is that in Estonian circumstances, there is a kind of roomoe that is very much needed to survive, and here we cannot compare ourselves with Bulgaria or, for example, with Greece. Roomborne VAT was 5% in 2006, rising to 20% in 2007, and this has hurt many a lot. One of your colleagues, speaking about the tax policy of the country, explained that taxes are also a disciplining tool. We talked very quickly about whether you want to drink vodka and other excise duties. But couldn't VAT be much more moderate in the case of room temperature? It does not need to punish, raise, or wean anyone. What is your opinion on this? Doesn't room temperature 20% VAT as a source of state income a little much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U184	But you could say that about everything else that a person needs for the first time, from food, medicines, primary services, etc. This dispute, when the rate of domestic hot VAT was harmonised with the rate of VAT, became, as far as I know, in the first half of the first decade of this century. The solution to what to do when there is a problem with coping is, in my opinion, that we should support those families where this problem of coping is real. When we introduce a room-warm VAT distinction, everyone will be part of it, including you, who will pay for the room-warm and are a well-rich person, as I read in the paper. Why should you enjoy this distinction and the other wealthy too? So the introduction of differentiation is a relatively ineffective measure of social assistance. In any case, I support direct social support for families in need of assistance, not the introduction of differences in the same way for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U185	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I was going to ask you something else entirely, but on your previous answer, I'm going to ask you this. Can it be assumed that the government coalition will soon come up with a proposal to increase income support and social benefits in Estonia at the initiative of Juhan Parts? Indeed, one way is generally to lower excise duties and taxes, while the other is to approach the relief of people's lives according to need. I haven't heard the government plan to increase subsidies. Have I misunderstood and there's a change on this front?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U187	The government discusses this subject quite regularly. If we look at social spending as a whole and at various social benefits in a very different way, as we do, then, in fact, there is always a question of how to focus aid better and how it would be'socially more sustainable', as this expression is. Indeed, grants must have such an effect that a person or family who is struggling to cover primary expenditure can cope with existing social benefits. As far as heating costs and other housing costs are concerned, they are still taken into account in the cost of our consumption basket and the level of subsistence. If these costs increase, this should automatically also be reflected in the calculation of the grants. It is a question of whether or not the level of income support currently ensures social sustainability.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U188	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U189	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U190	Thank you. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, you did not have time to answer all five questions in your 15 minutes. But the government's attitude towards those groups who are really in trouble, who can't handle their daily lives, is a little weird. To tell them populistly that we don't do laundry every week, or that in winter, food can be taken out into the cold, or that television and radio can do without it, it doesn't lead anywhere. But I am also giving you a good opportunity to answer the fifth question: is the government planning, and in what way, to control the future increase in prices related to home expenses? If, of course, this government can do that at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U191	I do not agree with this principled attitude. No, I know it's polite to criticize the questioner, but I think playing with facts of this kind is more populist than talking about what it would be more sensible to do to reduce our home expenses in a situation where our fuel prices are world market prices. I think that the many programmes that the government has implemented are, in fact, unprecedented. I don't know if there's a program for renovating apartment buildings somewhere else. What will man gain as a result? First, a person wins at real home expenses. This has been proven for various houses and I probably don't have to go over it. Secondly, if the renovation is carried out correctly, it will improve the indoor climate of the rooms, which will result in a significant improvement in the human living environment. A person spends a large part of his life in his home, at least a third. If this environment is greatly improved, it should also have a positive effect on health. Thirdly, we must realise that when we talk about heat costs, it must be taken into account that a large part of the housing fund is being amortised. A person with renovation, a family that owns a particular dwelling, will extend the life of the building by at least one generation or two more. Renovation also increases the market value of buildings. I also understand this point that not all families have the money to come up with for renovation, depending on the financing model chosen by the building management company. That's a very good point. I do not rule out that, in a situation in which we have almost 10,000 housing associations in the Republic, we should also consider what to do in future programmes if some members of the housing association have difficulties in covering the necessary costs. When we look at the experience of Europe, especially of the Nordic countries, they started the same process. in the 1990s. There, funding models were launched, where the money invested made up itself in five to seven years thanks to the avoided heating costs. It was money actually won for a man. And the investment problem should in good circumstances be able to be resolved so that people do not have to pay extra money. I admit that financing and reconstruction models could be better designed in cooperation with banks and why not also with construction companies. There is obviously room for improvement here. But it makes sense that when we talk about 50% of the reduced heating costs, it can be enjoyed in the first winter after renovation. From there on, man will win. But to do this, everyone has to have money to pay for the heating costs, and we cannot find a solution with housing associations and banking institutions so that people do not have to contribute extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U192	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U193	You must have meant VAT. Would you imagine that Estonian law would introduce a smaller roomwarm value added tax (VAT) for poorer families? I don't think that would be quite in line with our general principle of equal treatment of people if we were to foresee that someone is a poor family, who should get a lower VAT roommaker, a neighbor is a little more wealthy and he shouldn't. The reasonable path, I repeat, would be to provide for social benefits if the family really is in difficulty. It's clearly more reasonable. When we look at statistics, most families live better than the limit of living. There is still a certain minority here. Consequently, applying this distinction to all others would not make sense from a national perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U194	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There has been a long and thorough discussion of home costs here today, and there has been a long and thorough discussion of the various promises. To be honest, a year ago, I also decided that I would do a small overhaul of electricity bills and see how much electricity I have spent in different years and how much I have paid for it in ten years. It turned out that every year in this century, the amount of electricity I used has decreased, but my bills have nevertheless increased. I made a decision and built a pot oven. Much has been said today about apartment buildings and their insulation. Many Estonians live in their private homes. Shouldn't we also come up with a fireplace support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U196	Basically, we have a program of support for the reconstruction of private houses, which has been launched as a pilot programme, but in the course of which up to EUR 4 million will be distributed. Through this program, the owner of a private house can perform renovations and the central steps in renovation are the choice of heating system. Of course, if someone can prove that it is more efficient to simply use bone steam and firewood, this basically comes under support for renovating private houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U197	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U198	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The channelling of EU funds for the insulation of apartment buildings and now, to a small extent, to make private houses more energy efficient is a right and commendable step; unfortunately, this is certainly not enough. Speaking of which, the slogan was... let's get this slogan thing out of here again... 'Home expenses down! ', then people may have assumed that it would affect all households, for everyone has home expenses. But let's see who it concerns. It was said that there are 10,000 housing associations in Estonia, 400 have received a loan from KredEx, and it is still a loan that has to be paid back. Many housing associations are unable to obtain such a loan, but many apartment buildings do not have a cooperative at all. So we're talking about a few percent of the households that this slogan has touched. Also, the example of Kalle Laanet was very striking. It is very good that at least these few percent have received support, but their home costs have not been reduced by this, but the lower increase is simply because, at the same time, electricity and indoor heating prices have increased considerably. I would also like to point out that the total amount of housing funds in Estonia is updated by around 1% per year. So it would take 100 years before we could talk about a completely renewed housing fund. Consequently, other measures are still needed to make apartments and houses more energy-efficient and to control home expenses. There are, in fact, very many possibilities, only good will to use them. I will, for example, bring the electricity excise duty down to 4.5 times the minimum standard in the European Union. That would mean that our electricity bills would be 4% lower. The payment of renewable energy subsidies for Narva boilers with low efficiency, both oil shale and chipping wood, could be stopped. As a result of this activity, the price of timber has increased for people who heat their houses with wood, as well as the share of renewable energy charges in electricity bills. Renewable energy development could be supported through the sale of CO2 quotas and the European Union's structural funds, not through human electricity bills, as our government has decided. I would also like to mention, for example, the implementation by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of the 20072013 energy-saving target programme and the preparation of the legal framework to enable energy service companies to enter the market, in particular, to help the low-insured population to make their habitats more energy-efficient. The Minister mentioned that it would really be right if the residents of the apartment buildings did not have to bear their share if banks and KredEx were to bear the burden in cooperation. But my question is: why have you not yet developed this legal framework, even though the European Union directives provide for it? One option is to reduce VAT on district heating. Of course, everything will pay, but then tell us honestly that our policy is to increase consumption taxes and thus to collect tax money. The powers of the Competition Authority could be extended and the control of the activities of energy companies could be strengthened in order to ensure a more favourable price for consumers, for example by introducing a separate law for the Competition Authority, in accordance with the example of Eesti Pank, both competence and rules of operation. What is happening in the energy market is so complicated that only highly qualified professionals can evaluate it, and for that we need a very strong Competition Authority. The list could be continued. But why should I introduce these possibilities, it is still the work of the Minister for Economic Affairs. However, it is a pity that there are no works. Not even on this ground, so that the income support for poor families is really increased. Nor did the Socialist proposal that child support should not be taken into account in relation to income support did it work. So what are we talking about? A lot of words, a lot of promises, but, frankly, things are a little low, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In reply to Mr Aadu's Black question, you referred to Black wealth. You've probably heard that there are several political parties here with black money. But the question is that there are wealthier people, there are poorer people, and indirect taxes fall particularly heavily on the shoulders of the poorer population. When housewarming VAT was raised, it was those who needed the most protection. There is a principle that whether we need or do not need any distinctions, we should still support those who can do worse. However, would it not be wise to differentiate income tax and exempt some things from income tax, but to increase income tax for certain categories?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U200	Let's move on to the next question, number 163. The topic is what is happening at the Estonian Internet Foundation. The question is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I invite Olga Sõtnik to the Riigikogu Chair as the representative of the heirs in order to present the content of the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and observers of the sitting online! On 2 May, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications about what is happening at the Estonian Internet Foundation. In recent weeks, the Estonian Internet Foundation has had rather alarming times. On 26 April, Eesti Ekspress wrote that Estonian Internet Foundation is brewing and tearing. Staff leave, bosses fight and costs raise questions. A number of conflicts and scandals have been sent to this institution in the past. According to information published in the press, the Estonian Internet Community of NGO has considered it necessary to immediately resign the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Internet Foundation Marek-Andres Kauts, as the foundation has seriously violated the promise of cost-based management given to its domain owners. The Estonian Internet Community also complains about the non-assigned use of funds collected in the form of domain fees, the recruitment of unqualified workers, the large and all personal data that allowed the copying of the security hole in the EIS systems, the conduct of the Chairman of the Management Board to ignore the opinion of others, the lack of normal cooperation with registrars, undue expenses for business travel, etc. In all of this, we have five questions to answer. Although, in the meantime, I think there have been positive developments in this area, the question remains valid and these questions deserve to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U202	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Riigikogu to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U203	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Members of the Riigikogu, heirs! Question 1: 'How does the Minister comment on the above complaints (MTÜ Estonian Internet Community) towards the Estonian Internet Foundation? ' I also answered questions about the Internet Foundation in the May 9th Question Time. Then I said that the Internet Foundation Board would review the Foundation's expenses, including in view of the press claims. In the meantime, the Foundation Board has heard a review of the Foundation's annual report for 2011. In the opinion of the auditors, everything in the report was fairly reflected and the costs of the press were not found to be different from normal business practice or to be illegal. The Foundation Board also informed the public about this. The Governing Council also decided that the meetings of international organisations would normally be attended by one person appointed by the Governing Board and stressed that it was up to the Governing Board to act as economically as possible. If we look at the costs of a separate foundation in comparison with the costs of similar institutions in our neighbouring countries, they are equal to Latvia, less than Lithuania, more than three times smaller than Finland and ten times smaller than Sweden. It must also be taken into account that the number of domains and revenues vary from country to country, but since the infrastructure components have to be purchased on the international market and the pay chains between countries are lower than otherwise when hiring IT workers, the costs can be compared. The second question: "Can it be considered reasonable that money collected from domain fees is used, for example, to purchase books or musical records written from war history? ' I would like to stress once again that the costs of the Foundation have been verified in the opinion of an independent auditor. They have been considered meaningful and necessary. It's hard enough to see a scandal when you buy some books, but it's more of a matter you've been looking for. There's a library right here, too, and I don't think anyone's going to see anything scandalous about it. It would be more scandalous if there were no books. The foundation has probably also ordered a newspaper or magazine. According to the Foundation's explanations, the book referred to in Eesti Ekspress is part of the Estonian Encyclopedia Publisher's series "The Thought and the Sword," while the CDs purchased "Estonian Sound Recorders 1939" were the anniversary of the 80th year of Endel Lippmaa. In my opinion, it is right that the foundation remembered with dignity the Academician Lippmaa who brought the Internet to Estonia. Question 4: 'How do you comment on the delivery of the Estonian Internet SA 3500 euro trailer purchase (not rental) generator? Will a trailer continue to transport the Internet to and from rural areas? " First of all, thank you for the humorous end of the question. However, according to the Foundation, the trailer is a stationary generator base for the transport of a backup generator. The controversial generator itself is designed to provide backup power to the Internet Foundation to ensure that the work is done in the event of a blackout. The power supply cannot be provided by the UPS, as it ensures that only a selected number of calculation techniques are operated during the grid cut-off while switching to the generator power. As far as electricity generators are concerned in general, strangely, one of the esteemed respondents' party associates, Aivar Riisalu, has suggested that they be used extensively in rural areas in the event of a blackout and also in places reserved for permanent feeding. However, in the case of an institution providing an important IT service, thinking about back-up supplies tends to be too cautious. Question 5: "What are the concrete steps taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to restore the reputation and credibility of this foundation? ' The main expectation of the Ministry as one of the founders of this foundation is that the foundation should carry out its tasks effectively. Within two years of its existence, the Authority has developed a new infrastructure, carried out a transition to a new domain regime, organized a domain register, launched dotted domains, launched a domain dispute committee to protect intellectual property holders. As a result, more than 65000 domains have been registered in Finland in terms of number of domains per person. From 1 May, the foundation reduced the domain fee to EUR 17 per year. The Foundation is also a member of the CENTRE of the Association of European Domain Organisations. The next step is to complete the redeployment in ICANN. There have also been inconsistencies between the interests of the various parties involved in this task. Apparently, these have been the main motivation behind the various accusations made on the site of a foundation that performs its main tasks regularly. The day-to-day activities of the Estonian Internet Foundation are managed by the Management Board and supervised by the Supervisory Board. Several changes have been made to the management of the Foundation during the last month. One member of the Governing Board was called back by the Governing Council in relation to the conflict of interest related to the delegation. Last week, Jaanus Tehver, who is now responsible for the day-to-day management of the Foundation, was nominated by the Board of the Foundation as a new member of the Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U204	Minister, there are questions for you. Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. But could you, however, open up what these backgrounds are, why the other member of the board decided to resign if the auditor did not find any errors in his/her activities? In your last reply, you listed a number of successes that have been made under the leadership of the Internet Foundation, Mr Kauts. Why did he resign? And the second part of the question: when is it going to find a new board of directors for this institution? Are there plans to organise a public competition and, if so, will it be public enough and fair enough to find people who are able to communicate normally with all parties, both Internet service providers and members of the Estonian Internet Community?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U206	As far as the first part of the question is concerned, I believe that the former Chairman of the Foundation has already explained to the public why, in agreement with the Council, he resigned. I must honestly admit that, despite public criticism, it came as a surprise to me. But that was the decision of the board. As I have also said in this Chamber: I would like to see this foundation as far away from the country as possible. And I think that the Bureau and the Council must resolve these issues. Why would he be as far away from the country as possible? Because this is already due to the nature of the Internet and the good practice of domain management. It was all attached to the state with all its funding. This whole restructuring began when I was approached by academician Lippmaa, who described our domain arrangement, which was from the beginning of the 1990s, and which was clearly lagging behind, with quite harsh words. Then this matter was dealt with and the concept was developed together with all interested parties. Let us be honest, the same young man, who has been criticised very much in the public eye, you have also done so, is actually one of the authors of this concept, as well as its promoters. At the moment, we can say that, to a large extent, the concept has been implemented. The only thing that has not been done is that the foundation must also be properly re-registered and the work related to ICANN is to be completed by the international organisation of the Internet in the United States. I'm not gonna make any more comments on that. However, I understand the Council's decision to recall Jaak Lippmaa. Mr Lippmaa's task was to do this "relegation" when the foundation was established, but unfortunately this time frame, which was agreed between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Estonian Information Technology Association when the foundation was founded, is well behind. This isn't about weeks or months, it's about a huge gap. I guess the Council lost hope in this regard. The second question was about the new board. I can only pass on the information that the Council has provided to me. A competition is being prepared and I understand that it is planned to be carried out when the summer vacation is over, i.e. in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U207	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U208	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Minister! My question is driven by the reference to Aivar Riisalu's fertile project to equip rural areas with backup generators. Unfortunately, since Aivar Riisalu himself is not here and is probably watching this whole discussion over the Internet, he cannot ask. I'll ask for him. Did your reference to his idea mean that it was a good idea, or did you just give this example to show that one of us, the heirs, thinks differently about some things?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U209	I think it's a good parallel. The very article of the Estonian Express, on which your colleague, Mrs. Sõtnik, has built his inquiry, is probably based on the fact that you, too, have signed this inquiry, claiming that the electric generator to the internet foundation is a huge waste of money. Now the auditor has assessed it and found that such a foundation needs a back-up feed. Here comes Aivar Riisalu, who recommended electric generators as a backup power source. After all, we have times when there are storms and many blackouts, and not only in homes, but also in farms, there are many concerns about this. Electrical generators are recommended to assist. It is strange that the same party in this hall recommends an electric generator as one of the tools that the state should encourage to address potential storm threats, but in the case of an Internet foundation, the acquisition of a generator is considered to be an abusive use of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U210	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Olga Sõtnik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U211	Good people here! I am actually quite happy that the Estonian Internet Foundation is now starting as a new page. He can start a new job and complete the outstanding activities with a new board. Indeed, the old management board has done quite a lot of things that are very important for Estonia, but in recent times the sequence of problems tended to grow. It is good that the Internet Foundation Board can launch a competition and find new leaders who hopefully can find a normal common language with the ITL, who created the Estonian Internet Foundation, as well as with members of the Estonian Internet Community, who have been very great critics of the former management board. We very much hope that the process of redeployment, which has been the subject of the speech, will be completed. I understand that Mr Kauts, however, will continue to serve as an advisor for some time in the foundation and will be responsible for completing the process of redeployment. At the same time, a little knowing the reasons why the current administrators of the TLD did not want to transfer this role to the foundation, I can say that it was due to reproach for the activities of the management board. I have a little doubt that Mr. Kauts will be able to end this successfully. But let's see the time. For me, the question was also left open as regards the recent change in the composition of the Council. I would like to see some changes in this regard as well. In the beginning, the foundation's board had a representative of both the state and the ITL. ITL has left because of differences of opinion. In my opinion, in order for the Council's work to be more effective, the former situation should be restored and the Council should be supplemented by representatives of the ITL and perhaps other organisations. There was another interesting article about the legal status of the Estonian Internet Foundation last week, and I think that our next question or written question to the Minister will come about this. Eesti Ekspress published an article in which one lawyer claims that the Estonian Internet Foundation cannot actually perform the tasks it is currently performing. It would take some other legal form or even a domain law. All in all: yes, you can see the light at the end of the tunnel. A new awakening period will begin for the Estonian Internet Foundation and hopefully the future will be much brighter than the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U212	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U213	Now, good fellows, after my hammer strike, please register for a speech in the free microphone round! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U214	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor here at the request of the Coalition Council of the City Council of Narva. In a very brief way, I will tell you what we are dealing with. In the 1990s, Narva had a huge problem with the queues of cars that wanted to travel to Russia. Hundreds of trucks were in their tails all over the city. It was a terrible situation. The criminogenic situation continued to deepen, because when cars stand on the streets at night, it is virtually impossible to protect drivers. There was nothing to breathe, especially in the winter, when the engines were constantly running, and the garbage was huge in the city. In the late 1990's, Narva took the initiative to resolve this problem. We set up a place where we started collecting these trucks and letting them cross the border. The situation improved momentarily. But this area was to be maintained, and then there was the fee that was taken from the cars. The country always fought against the city taking that reward. We had a lot of trouble, especially with the Chancellor of Justice. For the fifth year, we had to spend hundreds of thousands of kroons purely from our city's budget to keep the site running. I would remind you that, according to our code, the organisation of border crossings is a matter for the Government of the Republic. At the same time, the city of Narva had to spend millions of kroons on it. During the period from the fifth to the ninth year, the city paid a total of 7.5 million kroons from its budget to organise border crossings. That's just under half a million euros. In the near future, Narva City Council will come to the Riigikogu with a statement asking for these sums to be compensated. In fact, it was a violation of the meaning of the Constitution. If the state has to organise border crossings, the local government does not have to pay for this. I am not talking right now about the fact that the city is not going to demand compensation for all the troubles that these tens and hundreds of thousands of cars have caused us: broken roads, trash on the streets, etc. However, ladies and gentlemen, at a certain point when this request comes, I will address you and ask you to support in advance this forthcoming appeal to the City Council of Narva. That is a fair claim in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U215	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable councillors, who you all are here, there are quite a lot of roads! Last week we had a trial-free week. The free week is intended for the Riigikogu to meet people, our voters in the regions. The Democratic Community started this week with a trip to South Estonia. We were hoping for warm spring weather. But, oh surprise, on Tuesday, the icy winds began to blow, and they were, of course, linked to the message that certain parties had allegedly been black-funded. Unfortunately, these icy winds blew not only in South Estonia, but later also in Saaremaa, where I met people. The saddest thing about it is that more and more people view politics and politicians as an alien phenomenon in society. Take, for example, a couple of messages that were said in a very sharp tone. One was that politicians have alienated the people, and the other was that the government wants to look like a good boy for the European Union. These are, in my opinion, pretty sharp statements. Very specific questions are also asked. For example, the Blackfoot fishermen asked: a respected member of the Riigikogu, how do you think we should manage our lives, if, for example, one online permit cost 6 euros in 2011, but in 2012 it costs 13 euros? Where should our income come from to buy our own tools and labour rights? But I don't want to talk very long in the sad tones that sounded last week in the light of all these scandals. Rather, I would like to emphasise the very clear position of myself and the whole of our Alliance of Democrats that there is an urgent need to react. Our position is that the illegal financing of parties must be criminalised, restored. While the current Code allows for the prosecution of natural persons, we believe that a legal person, as one party is, must be responsible for the fact that there is no money in his register from suspicious background that has been received there either directly in cash or as transfers. So in the near future, our members of the community will be planning to launch such a draft. We want to show that the Riigikogu is not merely debating the matter, but is also making concrete moves to initiate a discussion on whether parties could and should have criminal liability in this regard, both in the committees and in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-28_U217	Kalle Laane, thank you. There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 8 a.m.
