ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Planning Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, will represent the Government of the Republic in the processing of this draft. Thirdly, the draft law on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U3	Thank you. I'm asking Kadri Samson to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Some members of the Riigikogu have been able to listen to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi on two occasions today, both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on European Union Affairs. At the same time, let us face it, the Minister of Finance has not had much of a chance to talk about the future of the euro area in a large Chamber. He himself mentioned this very sadly last week. That is why, on behalf of myself and 12 colleagues, I am going to refer an inquiry to Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi on the future of the euro area. However, the European debt crisis has shown that the Maastricht criteria alone have not helped to shape the monetary policy of the various countries. The European Commission wants to push the euro area Member States more within the limits of the euro criteria and has come up with a number of opinions on how to intervene in national budget planning or punish them by freezing Structural Funds money. In June 2011, Jean-Claude Trichet came up with the idea of creating a European Union Ministry of Finance, which would have the right to have its say in shaping national budgets. And while the idea initially seemed utopian, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has now also expressed his wish to establish a central authority to manage the euro area's finances. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister of Finance that he should not be here in front of the Chamber of the Riigikogu, probably only in the autumn, shed light on his position. We are asking what his assessment of the establishment of a euro area finance ministry is and how this could help to prevent such crises from happening again in the future. How could the creation of Eurobonds affect Estonia's situation? In addition to these, there are three other questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: 1) Members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, initiated on 6 June, is a draft law, the commission is a Social Affairs Committee; 2) a faction of the Estonian Centre Party. The draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" was submitted on 7 June, the commission is the Social Affairs Committee. The President of the Riigikogu appointed the draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" to be submitted by the deadline of the amendments submitted by the Estonian Centre Party, including on 7 June. June 21, 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft law amending the Forensic Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related other laws (202 SE) by the deadline for submitting the documents on which the second reading is based. a 11 June at 6 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has been forwarded by the Government of the Republic s. a On 7 June Estonia submitted its views on the draft amendment of the Regulation on statistics of the European Parliament and of the Council to the Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft Regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 14 June at 4 p.m. Fourthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has been forwarded by the Government of the Republic s. a On 7 June Estonia's positions on the draft Council Regulation on the transition from the Schengen Information System (SIS 1+) to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) to the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed the Constitutional Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 14 June at 4 p.m. The members of the Riigikogu have formed a human rights support group. Next, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 7. Ladies and gentlemen, we must endorse the agenda for the 18th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. The projects have been distributed to you, and we are preparing for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 18th working week agenda for the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 92, against 2, no abstentions. The agenda for the last working week of this session has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U6	We will address the questions on today's agenda. First, an inquiry to the Auditor General Mihkel Oviir on 30 April 2012 regarding the alignment of the natural gas law with the directive, submitted by the members of the Riigikogu to Kadri Simson, Tarmo Tamme, Aivar Riisalu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korbi and Kalev Kallo on 30 April 2012. As the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Kadri Samson to speak on the platform!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U7	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Auditor General, An inquiry to bring the Natural Gas Act into line with the Directive was submitted to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir on 30 April. Today, when this question is being answered, circumstances have changed somewhat. Last Wednesday, the Riigikogu voted with 52 votes in favour of the Act amending the Natural Gas Act. However, the problems with the vote in which the IRL and Reform Party amended the law have not been resolved, because on the same day, Eesti Gaas, who is the entity most affected by this law, made a request to the President of the Republic of Estonia. In prayer there was a wish that the President would not declare the act amending the Natural Gas Act, as Eesti Gaas considers it to be a violation of their constitutional rights. Before the law reached the final vote in the Riigikogu, however, already on 16 February, the National Audit Office sent a letter to the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, which drew attention to several shortcomings in the draft. In doing so, the National Audit Office's assessment was that the incomplete impact assessment of the draft does not make it possible to determine at all whether the draft increases energy security, security of supply and competition in Estonia. In addition to the inadequacy of impact assessments, according to the National Audit Office, the Government of the Republic has superficially viewed the potential costs of the draft and the cost to taxpayers and gas consumers. The problems of expropriation of the gas network have also been addressed. After the law was passed, it was possible to read estimates immediately that this law could mean a very costly and long-term court battle for the Estonian state. In his letter, the National Audit Office advised the Riigikogu to request an analysis from the initiators of the draft, which would show convincingly how the selected measures increase the security of supply and energy security of the Estonian gas market and diversify the supply of gas, as the objectives of the draft can only be achieved if several other activities follow or accompany ownership unbundling. In the interests of saving time, I am not going to read out our four questions, because it will be easier for the honourable Auditor General to answer than he will say before the answer is given. On behalf of the initiators, I say that this is another very unfortunate experience here in the Riigikogu, where the indisputable experts in their area clearly point to the dangers before the law is passed and these dangers are simply ignored. This could lead to quite high costs not only in the form of costs to the State, but certainly also to consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U8	Thank you. I'm asking for Auditor General Mihkel Oviir of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu Kadri Simson, Yana Toom, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korb, Kalev Kallo, Viktor Vassiliev and Tarmo Tamm addressed me on 30 April with an inquiry into the amendment of the natural gas law. In asking for approval of the Natural Gas Act Amendment Act, the Government of the Republic asked the Riigikogu to make a decision on the future of Estonian energy and on consumers. It is self-evident that, together with the draft, the government must also provide the Riigikogu with sufficient information on the consequences of the adoption. The National Audit Office published an audit at the end of last year on the organisation of an impact assessment of legislation, where we concluded that the impact assessment of legislation is incomplete and neither the recipients nor the public have sufficient reliable information about the possible consequences of the legislation. In order to look at compliance with the audit recommendations in practice, we considered it necessary to determine whether the effects of this amendment to the Natural Gas Act had been properly assessed. That is why we have put the following questions to the drafters. Firstly, were the proposed amendments to the Natural Gas Act developed on the basis of a prudent and thorough analysis? Secondly, will the explanations provided by the initiator of the draft act provide assurance that the amendment will achieve the objectives of the draft act, i.e. increasing security of gas supply, energy security and competition in the gas market? Thirdly: is the information submitted to the Riigikogu for decision-making correct? In order to shape the opinion, the National Audit Office analysed the material related to the draft, and met with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Competition Board and AS Elering. The National Audit Office also sent its position to the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, which was discussed at the meeting of the committee. Last week on 6 June, the Riigikogu approved the amendment to the Natural Gas Act. But now to the questions. The first question: Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications responded in any way to the comments of the National Audit Office? Has the response been followed by any action by the initiators of the draft? " The comments and suggestions in the letter of the National Audit Office have been discussed separately with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as with the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Based on the observations made by the National Audit Office, the draft has been supplemented in several parts. To answer the inquiry, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications how the opinions of the National Audit Office have been taken into account. The Ministry pointed out, among other things, that the expropriation of gas networks had been waived. It has now been replaced by a coercion that the company will have to pay until it has sold the networks. I stress that the National Audit Office has never said whether or not the networks should be removed from Eesti Gaas. It is not for the National Audit Office to say. It is up to us to say that if the government or the Riigikogu decides one way or the other, it needs to know the consequences of this decision, in this case the security of gas supply, energy security and gas prices. Before making a decision, we need to make sure that the choice leads to the goal. I cannot therefore rejoice that the provision for direct expropriation has been withdrawn from the draft, because I still do not know from the draft material whether this is the right way to do so than expropriation or what is the right way to do it. The second question: "The State Audit Office did not analyse or evaluate which of the three ways of implementing the directive is most appropriate to increase energy security, competition and security of supply, and this is not the task of the National Audit Office. Unfortunately, the initiator of the bill has not done so either. Why do you think such an analysis has not been carried out in the draft? " We can't see inside people's heads, but we asked the competent officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications who prepared the draft for our position. The National Audit Office asked what studies have been carried out and used in developing this bill. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications replied: "Estonia-based impact analysis, which of the three models of directives is most suitable for us, has not been made for drafting a draft law. The amendment of the Natural Gas Act is the result of an action programme of the Government of the Republic, which also defines the way in which the Internal Gas Market Directive is to be implemented. The content and pace of the amendment to the law have been dictated by the Treaty on Government Union. Therefore, no impact analysis of the model selection has been carried out.' The third question: "The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications believes that the analysis of this draft has been carried out sufficiently. Are you personally of the same opinion and how many of these analyses have the National Audit Office seen at all? " In its opinion, the National Audit Office pointed out as a problem that no Estonian-based studies were carried out in order to prepare the draft and to determine the effects. If you reply literally, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has not done or ordered any Estonian-based analyses on the draft, at least the National Audit Office has not seen them. The first analysis concerning Estonia was commissioned by AS Elering when the draft natural gas law was already sent from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to other ministries. This was the only Estonian-based analysis that was completed before the draft was sent to the Riigikogu. Later, when the draft was already in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, two more studies were prepared as a matter of urgency. All three studies have been commissioned by AS Elering. I want to draw your attention to what the analyses bring out and what the National Audit Office emphasised in its letter. Security of supply and energy security will only increase if gas grid unbundling is followed by or accompanied by a number of other activities, such as the construction of a LNG terminal in Estonia or Finland, such as the construction of a gas connection with Finland. In his letter, the National Audit Office stressed that the possibilities of establishing a LNG terminal and connecting with Finland should be analysed and resolved jointly by the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic. A few weeks ago, I read in the paper that there is a stagnation in these matters and a struggle with our northern and southern neighbours. The fourth and final question: "How is it possible for the Riigikogu to decide such an important issue, which will seriously affect the fate of the Estonian gas market in the future, on the basis of such a draft and explanatory memorandum? " It is possible if more members of the Riigikogu vote in favour of the bill than against. This was the case last week: 52 members of the Riigikogu pressed the green button, 28 abstentions were against 5. The amendments to the Natural Gas Act have therefore been approved by the Riigikogu and some may say what is more useful than what I say. And maybe not in this case. But when I look at the process of amending this law, I have a much more fundamental question and concern: what is the impact of the Government's programme of action on the work and decisions of the Riigikogu? What does it mean for officials and for you when something is written down in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic? Does this mean that we will no longer examine or analyze the program's outcome, but that we will do these things, turn off the thinking and press the button? After all, it is not just a question of gas networks; it is also a question of hundreds of other things that have been recorded in the programme within a few weeks. Many of these decisions still lie ahead of Parliament. My modest life experience says that things can usually be better than acting on a principle: think, discuss, act. Not in a way to act, to discuss, to think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U11	Thank you. A very honored waitress! I ask whether you consider the sovereign right of the Estonian state to choose which of the three proposed options or options it applies and whether Estonia is an exceptional phenomenon in this respect. You have pointed out that there has been no study of Estonia in the early stages of the Act. Is Estonia such a peculiar phenomenon that cannot be transferred to any other country's practice by analysing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U12	Thank you for a very interesting question. I have never questioned Estonia's sovereignty, as far as I know. We just need to think about how, in what order these things will be done and what this will bring to the Estonian state. In turn, I can say that I am a relatively Finnish fan and I closely follow the processes that go to Finland. In Finland, too, this problem is topical and Finland has opted for an exemption, but will not begin to separate the natural gas transmission network from the supplier until a competitive supplier has emerged in the natural gas sector, capable of supplying at least 25% of the gas to consumers. Finland also has a pipeline connection to a member country of the European Union other than Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. By the way, I'll tell you in secret that Finland is also a sovereign state. But that was his decision. [[Interjection from the floor: what about the second question?]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U13	Thank you. We're not gonna talk back and forth like this. Let's go to the next question. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is known that this law is so forceful that it is likely to have constitutional incisions and long legal proceedings ahead. But I'd like to ask you about the person who came out of your report. Three studies have been commissioned by Elering. Elering is known to be an electricity network company and Elering has raised network charges by 28.6% over the last two years, which means we are all paying Elering for the network service. Now maybe he's using the money to do gas research. It's for non-target purposes. So maybe the network service is too expensive for him to stick to the money? How does the National Audit Office feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U15	Honourable questioner! This problem is wider than it seems at first glance. In my opinion, such studies, which are undeniably necessary, should be commissioned by the respective Ministry. I look rather critically at such a thing as, on a matter that directly affects Eesti Energia, the studies will be commissioned by Eesti Energia. I have quite a lot of experience in the field of justice, so I can say that if there is a civil matter involving the plaintiff, on the one hand, and the defendant, on the other hand, the plaintiff gives his expert opinion and the defendant gives his, diametrically opposite opinion. In this sense, it should be possible to find the means and means to order the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications directly, whether or not it concerns Eesti Energia or Elering. That's one. Secondly, you should be very clear about who to order from. Estonia is a relatively small and compact country and many potential experts are connected to one system or another. In order to remove any doubts about this, I think it is right that, in the interests of the objectivity of the expert analyses, they be ordered directly by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U16	Thank you for your answer. It is simply a procedure for me to skip because my colleague here referred to another question that every member of the Riigikogu has one question. The answer was 100% correct in answering one question. Let's go to the next questioner. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U17	Thank you, good manager. Dear Auditor General, Thank you for this very good overview and for the answers you have given us today. As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I was also surprised that Estonia-based studies had not been carried out and the MKM officials said that this whole decision was motivated by a government union programme. My question, however, concerns the price, the fair price. The Competition Authority has said that the value of the assets could be about 25 million. Ministry officials have said that this could be in the order of EUR 120 million and, of course, network charges would rise in this respect. According to your calculations, they could then increase the consumer by 2.42 times if this price increases so much. Do you think it is right that, so far, no price negotiations have been conducted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U18	First of all, there's a little bit of a note. The Estonian Foreign Policy Institute has carried out an Estonian-based analysis of the political and security risks associated with the separation of the Estonian natural gas network. There are Estonian-based conclusions, such as that the ownership unbundling of the natural gas transmission network does not affect Estonia's energy security, as the risk of supply disruptions caused by one supplier is maintained when an additional supply channel is established, even if the transmission network has a new and independent owner, etc. This is now an analysis based on Estonia. Secondly, it is indeed a question of price. The range of prices is extremely large, as you said yourself, from 25 million to 120 million. Of course, this will ultimately also be reflected in the price of gas. Why has this not been done in the meantime, why has it not been attempted to clarify this price through negotiations? But when you sell the gas grid, that price will inevitably rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U19	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U20	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, I would like to ask you the same question I asked you at the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on natural gas, from the coalition ambassador who defended this law, who was unable to give me an answer. The fact that the Natural Gas Act replaced expropriation at the final stage with disproportionately high coercion, which in practice obliges the transfer in the same way as expropriation. Eesti Gaas and one of its partners, Ruhrgas, have said that such expropriation violates their constitutional rights and is prepared to stand up for their rights in court. If now such a law without analysis has been passed and this black scenario is coming, which brings great costs to the Estonian state, then who is responsible for it? Or is there no responsibility that 52 Members of Parliament are anonymously responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U21	I can respond exactly as you said in the end: the Riigikogu is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U22	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U23	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General! Can you say that belonging to the gas routes to Eesti Gaas somehow prevents the construction of a LNG terminal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U24	There is no obstacle in this case. I would add that Eesti Gaas must also allow other suppliers to use its gas networks. Although, unfortunately, I have to say that we do not have any other suppliers at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U25	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue with my colleague sitting in front of me in the same key. If we look at this black scenario, according to which unfortunately things have already gone in some countries of the European Union, and we finally have to say that this decision was wrong and we are losing in the arbitration court, in that case, is your forecast today that the question should, however, be reviewed legally again at the level of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U27	I am not saying that this decision in itself is wrong. The Riigikogu has discussed this matter thoroughly, has found it this way, in many ways it is also a political decision. That's not the problem. The problem is that you do not, in our view, have a full impact analysis on all possible consequences and there is no overall decision. The Finns made some kind of a comprehensive decision when they would even talk about the separation of gas networks under certain conditions. We don't have that alternative right now, starting with where the liquid gas terminal is coming from. We say that the volume of the liquid gas terminal is also of great importance. After all, the liquid gas terminal, its volumes, its production, it ultimately affects the price of the gas. We are still talking about how big he will come, whether he will come only for Estonia, whether he will come to Paldiski or Muuga, as we have heard in the meantime. These issues are all unsolved at the moment. In my opinion, there is a parallel here, as we talked about, with education. The Education Act was postponed in the sense that there was no funding. It was good to declare that our higher education is free, but at the same time, all financial relations are unregulated. After all, the Riigikogu began discussing it again. There are also a number of loose ends for this issue. Who is currently actively involved in the construction of this terminal? Where does this terminal come from? When will this terminal be completed? We know that we only have until 2015 to have a new gas agreement. It's going really fast. What happens then? There are a number of problems here that need to be resolved. What energy security are we talking about when we have one supplier? There is no price policy for the consumer that we can now suppress the price. The price goes down only when there are suppliers in a lot and they compete with each other. In the mobile market, we have several suppliers and prices are falling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U28	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General! In the case of central gas pipelines, we are dealing with a strategic infrastructure object. What is your opinion on whether strategic infrastructure sites should be state-owned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U30	It is an interesting and complex question, and it is very difficult to answer in an unambiguous way here. I do not have a very clear view of what the role of the state is and must be for such infrastructure objects. I have no position, but I say that this must be seen in this context, that we must be able to guarantee their work, and that depends very much on the political culture, legal culture, administrative culture in the whole country, etc. I think that the country is more secure, even though it also has its own woes and misery.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U31	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! Please tell me, are you planning to continue dealing with the natural gas issue? We have adopted this law, but the problem is still up. Is this subject finished for you, or do you still intend to continue to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U33	We have not finished this topic, because we believe that both electricity and gas are so important that the National Audit Office must continue to deal with them within its capabilities and capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U34	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! Such a somewhat historical-philosophic issue. I've been in big politics for 12 years, even 13 years. Does it just seem to me that there are more and more decisions every year that are taken without thinking through or without prior analysis, decisions that no one knows how to carry out afterwards, what is the financial cover or what is in the interests of any third party? Is that what it looks like or is that what it really is? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U36	Thank you! I must say that in recent times both the Riigikogu and the government have paid more attention to assessing the impact. It was not until last month that the government discussed two different aspects of the impact assessment. However, what I think is a problem right now is that the most important things in this regard also arise from the coalition agreement. As you have seen, the Ministry of Economic Affairs official replied that since it came from the coalition agreement, the deadlines were due to the coalition agreement, they did not have the point of dealing with it, that is, it was already decided in advance. That is why I have the call that all of you who are sitting in this Chamber should, in case you form a coalition, begin to assess the effects of your future proposals now. Because in this short period of time, within this few weeks, it will not be possible to assess the effects of these proposals. And as soon as we take the view that the decisions-agreements that will then be made are to be carried out in an undesired manner, we will no longer be able to assess any effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U37	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir! Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, During this draft procedure, the opposition has repeatedly pointed out a number of shortcomings, that there are no analyses of any improvement in security of supply, either gas supply improvements or anything like that. This bill has been rolled on with an iron machine until the end and it has become completely incomprehensible why it was done. But it was thanks to the Auditor General that we learned today that it had actually been decided in a coalition agreement, and once it has been cut in there, there is no need to carry out any research. Then it will simply be brought to an end, regardless of the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that this law is capable of being violated by the Constitution. Despite the fact that, although the Minister, I am thinking of the Minister for Economic Affairs, has confirmed that everyone has been negotiated with the owners of the networks, the Committee on Economic Affairs also received a letter from the head of Ruhrgas shortly before the adoption of the law, which states very clearly that it will continue to stand up for its rights. Since it is not clear whether the draft is compatible with the Constitution, and even less so is coordinated with the owners, we are most likely to have long trials that could be lost. But as the Chancellor of Justice rightly said, the Riigikogu is responsible, and we certainly need to keep the lists that show who pressed the green button. You wouldn't want to be responsible for the stupidities you've done if you hadn't been involved. One interesting thing came up: three studies have been carried out, commissioned by Elering. In my understanding, Elering was formed when the main electricity grids were separated from Eesti Energia. Elering is precisely the company that manages the core networks and funds from all of us. As stated above in the reply to the questionnaire, at the end of 2009, when this separation took place, until today, i.e. in two and a half years, network charges have increased by 28,6%. It is not likely to be worth talking about a vigilant eye of the Competition Authority here, because, as it turns out, this money, which has been collected to ensure the reconstruction and security of supply of networks, can be used boldly to investigate the gas network, though it is necessary to carry out research into the gas network. And there's no doubt that Elering's leader has also said that Elering might have an interest in having these networks for once. Therefore, as the Auditor General said here, the studies commissioned by Elering actually pay nothing, because these studies have been carried out for themselves and probably in the right direction for themselves. I would also like to remind you that, if this happens, after 2015 the deadline after which Eesti Gaas will have to have the networks disposed of is, as we know, 1 January 2015, whether it will pay a very large amount of penalty money, or whether it will be forced to sell these networks, the gas network charges will rise over two or three years, you can all be sure, as well as 25% or 28%, as has happened today with electricity transmission network charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U39	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Natural Gas Act has been dealt with by the Riigikogu for quite a long time and it certainly cannot be said that it has been done hastily. I am pleased that the Auditor General spoke about this in this Chamber, although I admit that this conversation and debate would have been of much more use than it would have been before the second or third reading. I would reiterate why this law was in the Riigikogu proceedings and why it was adopted. Eesti Gaas accounts for about 10% of Estonia's energy consumption. Nearly 50% of Estonian district heating uses gas, including a large part of Tallinn, the whole of Rapla, Jõgeva, a large part of Viljandi. All gas in Estonia comes from one supplier - Gazprom. It is in the interests of us, the Estonian state, that we have several gas suppliers, that gas pipelines have gas from different suppliers, including liquefied natural gas, biogas produced in Estonia, Polish shale gas, oil shale gas. This list can be continued here. It is important that there is more than one supplier to have a real competitive situation in order for the price to develop in real competition. I do not remember opposition politicians raising a loud voice in a situation where Eesti Gaas has decided to increase the gas price by 5 to 10% almost every year. The share of network charges that my colleague, Kalev Kallo and other opposition ambassadors have repeatedly referred to is in the gas bill, which is presented to the consumer, depending on the gas consumption of 4 to 10%. If we are talking about up to 10% of the price increase and we forget that Gazprom, Eesti Gaas, has raised the price of gas to consumers by not less than 10% every year, then I think the discussion is not exactly at the right angle here. Energy security and security of gas supply are serious issues and I think we have done the right thing. This is, I admit, the situation of the egg-chicken, which is, either before, the demand of different suppliers or the preparation for regulation, the preparation in the form of unbundling of the network, so that it is no longer possible, according to administrative logic, as has been the case with Eesti Gaas so far and, as is the case with Gazprom's tactics in other countries, to pressure competitors and prevent them from accessing the gas network, to impede competition. I think we have chosen the right path if we first, as a first step, separate gas from the seller of the transmission system gas. This has given a very specific signal to all the developers of the LNG terminal, biogas producers, as well as other countries with which we are actually in the same situation, namely Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, that yes, Estonia has chosen the path that we want to develop a liberal gas market, come on, develop it together. When the officials of the European Commission visited the Economic Commission, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elering to decide where the regional gas terminal would be, either to Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania, I personally had the impression that they were very pleased with the progress we have made in segregating the gas network.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U41	Good waitress, would you like to extend the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U42	Thank you. I'd like three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U43	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U44	In the week before last, just before we had a second reading in the Riigikogu, we received a letter from the European Commissioner for Energy Günther Oettinger, where he acknowledged Estonia's activities and approved that we have just chosen to separate ownership from the three choices in the directive. They are also prepared to support the Estonian state in negotiations with the shareholders of Eesti Gaas. When I met with the representative of the owners of Eesti Gaas as the leading manager of the draft before the second reading of the bill, it was their main concern that they could get a fair price for selling their assets. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we decided to come even further, show the readiness of the Estonian state to negotiate and we gave the Competition Authority even more precise descriptions of how Eesti Gaas' assets could be revalued. As we know, the last revaluation of the assets of Eesti Gaas took place in 2004 and no one expects that Eesti Gaas will be forced to sell its assets at the price of 2004 in a situation where they have made investments during this period. It is self-evident that the owner of the new gas network will also have to pay for these investments. Another concern was whether there was a real buyer. As Kalev Kallo has said and as has been the opinion of the Auditor General, AS Elering has expressed its willingness and willingness to participate in sales negotiations. But the one who will eventually be the owner of the gas network is the decision of today's owner, Eesti Gaas, and the price will be revealed in the sales and purchase negotiations. I repeat that the price of network charges is not dependent on the owner, but on the value of their assets, and the value of the assets is said by the Competition Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U45	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker mentioned here that there is no need to worry about the separation of the gas network and the significant increase in network charges. Even if he does, the share of the network fee in the price of the gas is not very important. Let us remember that the same was said about electricity grid charges before electricity grids were handed over to Elering. Anyone who pays their electricity bill knows what has happened to the network charges since Elering's transmission of electricity grids, and they have become a significant part of the electricity bill. It is a far too short-sighted approach, so let us give up now and say that it is not worth spending our energy of thought on network charges. I would like to stress here the observation made by my colleague, Mr Kallo, that the same electricity grid charges, which are a considerable burden for people, are also sponsored by the fact that Elering is conducting studies on the gas market and the gas network, which is not yet his specialty. This is a biased approach and this task should be carried out clearly by the State, or the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So, just as Eesti Energia makes incomprehensible investments beyond the ocean, Elering has taken action everywhere and there is no proper control over it. Why must the separation of the gas network be discussed in the Riigikogu even when the law has been adopted by 52 votes and only the representatives of the Reform Party and the IRL voted in favour of it? But precisely because, as the Auditor General said, if this law brings significant costs to the Estonian state and to Estonian consumers, responsibility would not be spread evenly to the entire Riigikogu. However, the responsibility should be assumed by the forces who, without proper analysis, went and voted in favour of a decision that could lead to legal costs for the Estonian state, and also by the fact that this network comes from Eesti Gaas, whose shareholders are mostly German Ruhrgas, Gazprom and Finnish Fortum. It is not just for nothing to be bought out; these same invoices will then be distributed among gas consumers as network charges. I hate to be a pessimist, but there are very many parallels to the anti-monopoly law in this law. As you all remember, a year ago, the IRL promised, as an election promise, that it would adopt an anti-monopoly law and that it would achieve that water bills would decrease in utilities costs by up to half across Estonia. Quite the contrary: almost everywhere in Estonia, except in Tallinn, the price of water has increased significantly because of the lack of analysis and rapid action of this law. So the pattern is very similar. The second thing that the Auditor General mentioned is that so far it has not been proven that the gas network owned by Eesti Gaas, which is currently owned by the German Ruhrgas, Gazprom and Finnish Fortum, has in any way hindered competition. Perhaps it is preventing the creation of a new terminal, and its costs cannot be recovered hidden, but only at the price of gas. But we all have to consider that if a new terminal is invested, then, of course, the investor wants to get that money back. If it is possible to hide these costs on the gas network in other ways, of course it will make it easier for investors to be, but it is not at all as obvious. I was pleased to hear that the Auditor General promised to continue to deal with this issue, as it is so important to Estonia. It is certainly not worth giving up in the Riigikogu that 52 people voted the same way and do not deal with the subject any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U47	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. Let's close the negotiations. That concludes the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U48	Secondly, the question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of 19 April 2012 concerning the Yearbook 2011 of the Defence Police will be answered by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korbi, Eldar Efendiev, Olga Sõtnik, Priit Toobali, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Viktor Vassilyev and Mikhail Stalnukhin. I'm asking for Yana Toomi, the speaker's desk, as a representative of the inquisitives!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U49	Madam President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We have one very brief question, to which we hope we will also get concrete answers. In particular, Mr. Prime Minister s. 18 April in Riigikogu Question Hour, that the Yearbook of the Defence Police is the most anticipated periodical publication in Estonia. As politicians, we can agree to this, but unfortunately, it is difficult to explain this statement to the public. The chapter on the protection of the constitutional order of the Yearbook of the Defence Police describes the activities of the three largest opposition parties in Estonia, which are aimed at maintaining upper secondary school education in Russian. The activities have been interpreted as a threat to Estonia's security. I would add that the authors of the book have said that the activities reported by politicians are in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. We have asked the Prime Minister four questions, and I hope that the Prime Minister will read them himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U50	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U51	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: "Tallinn and Narva schools have challenged the decision of the Government of the Republic, which did not satisfy their request to continue teaching in Russian in Estonian Russian-speaking upper secondary schools. It is obvious that the authors of the Kapo Yearbook have an impact on the judgment even before the appeal is dealt with. How do you comment on that? " Unlike your question, the Yearbook of the Defence Police 2011 does not talk about litigation over the decisions of the Government of the Republic. In its yearbook, the Defence Police describes Russia's influence, whose priorities include maintaining the special status of Russian language and maintaining the Russian-language school network from the Soviet Union. The collection and, where possible, public sharing of such information is a duty of the Defence Police regardless of which decisions of the Government of the Republic have been challenged in court. The attempt of the heirs to create an image of Estonian courts as a manipulative and influencing part of the Estonian justice system remains incomprehensible. The Estonian judicial system is independent, independent and efficient and fully in line with European democratic values. The second question: "Do you also share the view that the preservation of Russian language and culture poses a threat to the constitutional order of the Estonian state? " The Defence Police or any other institution in Estonia has never claimed such a thing. The preservation of any language or culture cannot pose a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia. What is discussed in the Yearbook of the Defence Police 2011 is Russia's influence to prevent the integration of Estonian society and, in this case, Russia is trying to manipulate the national feeling of certain groups of people in its foreign policy interests. The decisions of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic are based on the mandate received from the people and are in the interests of our people. Competitive education, which provides good national language skills and does not deprive anyone of Russian or other native language, is primarily in the interests of the students' own future. The foreign state's attempt to mislead Estonia's decisions and prevent positive developments is not only a security threat, but also a threat to the successful future of our young people. The third question: "To what extent do you consider it necessary to limit the representation of the interests of the Russian-speaking community in politics and at national level? " There is no need to limit the representation of the interests of Russian-speaking Estonian residents in politics and at national level. The people of Estonia can represent their interests as appropriate in a democratic society, and this is also guaranteed by law. The security authorities must pay attention to cases where a foreign state or an aggressive interest group seeks to influence our democratic decision-making process in its own interest and thereby undermine the sovereignty of our country. Question 4: "Which media channels have been officially declared hostile to the Estonian state? If such a "black" list does not exist, why are people who have interviewed RT publicly condemned? " As far as I am aware, there is no blacklist of media that are hostile to the Estonian state. The Yearbook of the Defence Police will highlight the activities of the TV channel RT in Estonia and describe the orientation of this channel towards Estonia. Extract from the yearbook: "The selection and presentation of Telechannel themes coincides with Russia's traditional anti-Estonian rhetoric. RT the structure, content and tonality of news do not depend in any way on the reality of the situation in Estonia or on the on-the-spot research of journalists posted here. " It remains unclear that the public disapproves of people who have given an interview on the RT channel. I don't have that kind of information. Obviously, each person makes a decision for himself to communicate with and not to communicate with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U52	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U53	Thank you. Prime Minister! That very day, April 18th, 2012, when I asked about the kapo yearbook, you told me that since it was a media publication, the most appropriate place to complain was the Press Council. Look, I've already filed a complaint with the court, but there's no way we can file it with the Press Council, because it's only a member of the Newspaper Association. Are there any moves in this direction, too, and is there a plan for the kapo Yearbook to be in the Newspaper Union now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U54	Thank you. As far as I know, no steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U55	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I would like to give you an example. In our neighbouring country, Latvia, there were also events related to Russian-language education and other things in this field. There their security organization pointed out exactly that here are the money from this country, here are the ones who tried to make a difference with the money, and here is the effect. If you look at the po book, it's just an opinion. I mean, the kapo is still a security organization, not just an expert who can give you opinions. There would be arguments like Latvia, then perhaps there would be less discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U57	Thank you. I do not think that less discussion is a better choice for society than more discussion. Rather, the more and deeper the discussion, the better for society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U58	Any more questions for the Prime Minister? No further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U60	Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The second inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U61	The third question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Deniss Borodichi and Rainer Vakra to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on 2 May 2012. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry to the Prime Minister on 2 May is about border trade. Border trade has been discussed repeatedly in this Chamber, though in the round of questions and answers, in the context of enquiries, in the context of draft laws. In the spring of this year, this issue has come up again. Border trade is not a phenomenon that is unique and unique to the Estonian state. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has also said in this very Chamber that, as a whole, border trade is quite common elsewhere in the European Union; it is not possible or certainly not reasonable to complete it completely. However, as of today, the Government of the Republic has begun to adjust the legal provisions that regulate border trade and, in particular, the transfer of fuel. As a South-East Estonian resident, I am concerned about this whole situation, because border trade has not started as we have hoped in relation to the construction of the Koidula border railway station. Unfortunately, when it comes to bringing fuel from Russia to Estonia, it is not right to say that contraband, or secret fuel, is brought into the fuel tanks of small cars. The secret fuel will certainly be brought to Estonia with larger tanks, tanks. This is where it is legalised and, of course, the Estonian state will also lose large tax money. We have five questions for the Prime Minister and we are waiting for meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U63	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: "How much additional money has been received from the state budget since 2009 due to the rise in excise duties, given the ratio between excise duties and fuel consumption? Have excise increases justified themselves? "From the point of view of revenue from the state budget, excise policy in recent years has justified itself; excise duty receipts have increased in all types of excise duty compared to 2009. Fuel excise duty, which is the direct focus of the inquiry, was collected in 2011 at 16% better than it was two years earlier. The increase in excise duty rates has not reduced retail sales of excise goods. Retail sales of alcohol and tobacco products were more than 14% higher in the last quarter of 2011 than in the same period in 2009. The government considers it appropriate to continue to gradually increase excise duties on alcohol in the future. Retail sales of motor fuels at the end of last year were approximately the same as in the last quarter of 2009. The second question: "Can the fight against small fuel carriers be replaced by an analysis of excise policy and a reduction in excise duties? "In Estonia, excise duties on energy products are only slightly higher in terms of motor fuels than the minimum rate of excise duty in the European Union. Compared to other Baltic countries, our excise duty rates on motor fuels are not exceptional, for example, in Lithuania the excise duty on petrol is higher than in Estonia. In addition, when comparing excise rates with other EU Member States, it should be taken into account that motor vehicles are not subject to registration or car tax in Estonia. One of the most common principles in environmental policy is "Scrap and pay!'. According to this, users of natural resources and issuers of pollutants would have to pay for the damage they have caused to the environment. Although excise duty is paid on fuel consumed by car users in Estonia, it is far from covering all the costs of developing infrastructure based on the needs of road transport, as well as the costs of the environment, mainly air pollution, noise pollution and the destruction of the natural environment and road accidents. These costs are also borne by people who mostly walk and travel by public transport. In Estonia, the money collected from excise duties on fuel is used to store 75% of the road in accordance with the Road Act. In addition, EU funding will be used for infrastructure projects, and local authorities will also spend their budgets on road maintenance. In summary, the revenue from excise duties on fuel for road storage does not even cover all the direct costs incurred for road maintenance. In view of all the above, excise duties on motor fuel in Estonia cannot be considered to be excessively high. In addition to the revenue from the state budget, excise duties on fuel are also intended to limit the consumption of fossil fuels that have a negative impact on the environment and to make consumer behaviour more environmentally friendly. The third question: "Considering that the economic and social situation in border areas is worse than Estonia's average, the benefits of border trade are the only way for many to survive. In limiting this, is it planned to develop an economic recovery plan for the border regions, which would secure jobs for the population and give them a decent income? "The standard of living and employment in Eastern and South-East Estonia are slightly lower than the average in Estonia, and this is undoubtedly one factor that motivates people to deal with the introduction of excise goods from Russia and also speculation. This option will deprive some people of the incentive to seek employment at all or to develop the skills needed in the labour market. Such activities need not be promoted by the State. The sale of excise goods mainly imported from Russia in breach of the established regulation is an illegal economic activity. It is unacceptable to treat such economic activities as social assistance alongside income support and other benefits. In addition, it should be taken into account that the situation that has developed is seriously damaging to the interests of law-abiding entrepreneurs, because, for example, in Narva, the sales of excise goods with excise duty in Estonia are significantly smaller than elsewhere in Estonia. It is unthinkable for law-abiding companies to be able to operate permanently in a situation of unfair competition. As regards investments, for example, EAS alone has supported 426 projects in Ida-Virumaa with a total of 63.2 million euros from the Estonian state budget in 2007-2012 (as at April). Question 4: "The media have mentioned that Latvia has a very high level of smuggling at a high national level. In our country, it is believed that in smuggling, a third of the state budget money that has not come through the Luhamaa border, in the fuel tank or in the trunk of the small Passats. What is your assessment of the smuggling in the country and how much money will not be collected in the state budget? " Of course, I do not agree with the assessments contained in the question. According to the Tax and Customs Board, the total amount of taxes for 2010 was 467 million euros (apart from a third of the state budget, i.e. 1/12). The biggest problems are the non-recoverability of VAT and labour taxes. The share of excise duties in the tax hole is less than a quarter. The biggest problem here is the non-receipt of excise duties on tobacco, and this is an area on which the Tax and Customs Board is increasingly paying attention. Question 5: "What measures is the government planning to take to control the big secret businesses? "On 8 March 2012, the Government of the Republic discussed proposals for anti-tax fraud measures, but work is still underway and has not been approved by the Government. The measures concern, for example, the competences of the Tax and Customs Board, the application of extended confiscation of proceeds of crime in tax matters, the review of the criminal record of repeated smuggling and the installation of number identification cameras at all border crossing points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U65	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Thanks for the answers! My question relates largely to the third question of inquiry. We really know that in the border regions job opportunities are more limited than anywhere else. People are going the easy way of resisting and smuggling fuel and other excise goods across the border, which the state certainly should not tolerate. My question, how do I say, is whether, for example, the state could not, through some authorities, approach these people on the basis of certain projects and explain to them what the situation is like. Not tolerate, but try to influence people with soft measures. In general, people who engage in such, let's say, illegal activities are known in these areas. Can't you try to influence them without punishing them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U67	Thank you. Border trade was, is and will be. And when, on the other hand, goods are bought for consumption on the border, goods are bought on a tourist trip or simply by visiting a neighbouring country, it is perfectly natural, acceptable, there is no reason for anyone to complain. However, when goods, including excise goods, are introduced for commercial purposes, in which case they are illegal trade, this is, of course, deplorable. As I said in my reply, this type of behaviour cannot be tolerated in any way; it cannot be assimilated to social benefits or anything like that. Usually, large price differences on both sides of the border cease to exist over time. In this case too, we can see that price differences between Estonia and Russia are gradually decreasing. Obviously, for those people who have brought secret alcohol from Russia to Estonia, Russia's decision to raise the minimum price for alcohol has been saddened, and I do not remember exactly, it was 30% or something of this magnitude. In addition, Russia has also decided to increase the level of excise duty on alcohol in the same order of magnitude, i.e. 30% by memory. Typically, price differences that stimulate illegal border trade will disappear over time. Individual persuasion is, in my opinion, less effective than the trend towards price harmonisation. I believe that Russia will also pay the real price for fuels, tobacco and alcohol, and that the country will include the cost of compensating health damage, and this will inevitably lead to an increase in the price of excise goods, tobacco and alcohol that are harmful to health.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U68	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The production of South-East Estonia and Ida-Virumaa has been targeted by Russia throughout history. Goods have been transported there, and nostalgia has actually left many. You said that many companies have been supported through EAS and that there has been a lot of money put in it to encourage job creation. Economic relations must be developed with Russia, because Russia is still a large market. Our internal market and the large cities of the internal market Tartu and Tallinn are far from south-eastern Estonia. Russia is at the forefront of exports. How do you think that the government should not be more in touch with Russia and continue to develop economic relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U70	Thank you. As the statistics on the external economy in April show, Russia is the third export partner for us. Russia's share of Estonian exports is 11%; only Sweden and Finland are ahead of it. It must be said that it has restored independence to one of the highest levels in Estonian history. So let us acknowledge that trade between Estonia and Russia is now in the best position in history. In my opinion, Estonia's main trading partner will continue to be the European Union, the other Member States of the European Union. Today, Estonia's exports to other Member States of the European Union fall by 65-70%. In the European Union, we have a common market, common rules and it is perfectly natural that the European Union will remain a priority market for Estonia in the future. Russia's share of 10 to 11% is a very high proportion, which can certainly be welcomed. It would probably make sense for Estonia to look towards the countries of Central Asia as well, to increase its market share there. But not only the markets in Central Asia, but the markets in Asia as a whole are very rapidly developing markets, and we could pay attention to these markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U71	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! I will try to describe to you one of the questions I have recently been asked. I'm telling you, I'm not giving my opinion on this, but I'm asking you to tell me your judgment. Indeed, a border - border family brings fuel across the border to live there. One of the spouses works with this fuel, and the children are also taken to school. He claims that because the salary is so small, it is not possible to buy fuel from Estonia. The other spouse has not found a job and is engaged in a household. Their claim is that if they could not bring this fuel, they would both be recipients of social assistance in Estonia or should move away from it. What would you say to their consolation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U73	I think their actions are not the most promising, because I am convinced that this business will end. As long as any goods are delivered for own use, this activity is acceptable. As time goes on, these profit margins become smaller and the less profitable they become. It would be reasonable to use your time for further training, to acquire a profession and skills that provide sufficient income. The wisdom that gathers between the two ears, the treasure that can be carried between the two ears, is the greatest treasure and cannot be taken away from anyone, it does not run out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U74	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U76	Let's open the negotiations. I'm asking for a speech chair in Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to border trade, this spring, the debate on this topic was again caused by the report of the National Audit Office to the Riigikogu, which was entitled "The border crossing of water on the land border between Estonia and Russia." The National Audit Office also analysed the work of the border inspection posts. The border crossing operations of goods vehicles, cooperation between border workers and cooperation between customs workers were analysed in the work of border crossing points and wanted to draw the attention of Estonian public authorities to all these problems. Long waiting lists were a problem for a long time, but this problem has been resolved with the introduction of electronic waiting lists. However, the National Audit Office has also pointed out in its conclusions that it takes a great deal of time to check the cars that literally travel from Estonia to Russia, refuel fuel into fuel tanks and bring fuel to Estonia. According to the Tax and Customs Board, one fifth of all these border crossings are such vehicles. Of all the fuel that will be consumed, 7% will be brought to Estonia, which would give an additional five million euros of excise duty to the Estonian state budget if a fair tax was paid. However, just as the previous speakers have asked here and expressed their views in a sense, all these activities have also been carried out because the situation in the region is quite difficult in social terms. This situation has also been brought about by the increasing excise duties on our country, or our excise policy. This has also led to vehicles not filling in Estonia, for example, but filling in Russia, and therefore the Estonian state also misses part of the payment. I would also like to add that, as the Prime Minister mentioned, according to statistics, there are still many unemployed people in the border regions of Ida-Viru County and South-East Estonia. This situation has not arisen in recent weeks and months. There is a shortage of jobs and border trade has, however, given many people a chance to live. Personally, I think that if, when people wake up in the morning, they have a choice whether to go to work and get paid with social guarantees or go to Russia for gas to keep their lives alive, they would definitely choose the first one. But if this is not an option, then another option will be used. For some reason, I think that the Government of the Republic, which has now focused on rescuing Greece in recent times, has far from worked hard to take regional policy measures, precisely preventive ones, to save its people in South-East Estonia and Ida-Viru County and to encourage the creation of jobs there. Speaking about the report of the National Audit Office, I would like to point out some aspects. We all know that in 2011, the Koidula railway border inspection post, which cost more than EUR 800000, was completed and that a veterinary inspection post of 630 m2 was completed, but according to the current position, this veterinary post has not been used. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U78	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U79	The European Commission decided to add Koidula to the list of border inspection posts for veterinary checks on animal products at the border inspection post at the end of October 2011, but the staff of the Food and Veterinary Office were already in office at the border inspection post in July 2011. However, at the end of January this year, animal products had not yet been transported to Estonia through this border inspection post, which means that the veterinary inspection post had not been used. It is particularly sad that the Russian Government has issued a regulation in July 2011, which states that the veterinary inspection post at the Petseri railway station will not be reconstructed or constructed. However, if this regulation results in the renovation or construction of a veterinary inspection post in Ivangorod opposite Narva, the animal products will not be transported through the border inspection post of Koidula. This means not only unnecessaryly spent money, but also missing jobs in our region, which is why these jobs will not be created. I also asked our Foreign Minister in briefing about this, who said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is aware of the existence of the problem and wishes to resolve it as a matter of urgency. This spring we had the opportunity to visit Narva, where we visited a number of businesses, including the border crossing point, day-care centres. We were given a very interesting presentation on how people work in Ivangorod. I proposed to the Special Committee on State Budget Control that we visit the Koidula railway border inspection post in the autumn and certainly also the veterinary inspection post. Then we can get a more solid overview of how Estonian money has been spent. The veterinary inspection post must not remain an area where white socks can walk around purely, but it must still carry out transport and control of goods so that people can have real jobs. I think we'll come back to this in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U80	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U81	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu, Valeri Korbi, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Heimar Lengi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi and Esther Tuiksoo on 17 May. a request for information on the future of the Nord Stream gas pipeline submitted (No 170). Mr. Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U82	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 May, we sent the Prime Minister an inquiry into the future of the Nord Stream gas pipeline. In our inquiry, we write that the German-Russian gas pipeline Nord Stream has begun research into the construction of two more pipelines from Russia to Europe via the Baltic Sea. According to the company, the possibilities of increasing gas supplies to the EU and securing gas supplies to the extent of current contracts will be explored. The first of the two neighbouring pipes of Nord Stream were introduced in November 2011, the second pipeline has been completed and is currently being prepared for deployment. If this is done in the second half of 2012, there will be a total capacity of 55 billion cubic metres for both pipelines. In this regard, we have five questions for the Prime Minister. Information has come through that Prime Minister Nord Stream met at the end of April. The representatives allegedly provided an overview of the progress of the project work so far. Did the meeting also mention the installation of further gas pipelines? Secondly, we ask whether the new gas pipeline could go through the Estonian economic zone this time or whether the Government of the Republic is categorically opposed to it. Thirdly, we ask how true it is, in today's context, to keep Estonia's decision to stay away from the Nord Stream gas pipeline project. We would also like to know what the Government of the Republic has learned from the mistakes of the current Nord Stream project. And the fifth question: what has been the real environmental impact of the Nord Stream project on the Baltic Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U83	Thank you very much, Mr Valeri Korb. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: "Aprill ended with you meeting with representatives of Nord Stream AG. Allegedly, the representatives gave you an overview of the progress of the project so far. Did the meeting also mention the installation of further gas pipelines? " At the meeting, Nord Stream's leaders announced their intention to consider starting a cost-benefit analysis to plan a possible next step. If the results of the analysis are available, shareholders will have to make a decision. The second question: "What is the position of the Government of the Republic regarding the pipeline of new pipes? Could the new gas pipeline go through the Estonian economic zone this time, or would the Government of the Republic categorically oppose it? " Nord Stream has just decided to start a cost-benefit analysis of new pipelines and, in this situation, it is not possible to speak from the government's point of view about anything that does not have a cost-benefit analysis. If companies ever reach a decision to start planning new routes and turn to the government, there will probably also be a position. Question 3: "Estonia was excluded from the gas pipeline project because it was not willing to grant permission to carry out studies in the Estonian economic zone. In today's context, how true can Estonia's decision to stay away from the Nord Stream gas pipeline project be considered? " Estonia has not been invited to participate in this project. Nord Stream is a business project and involves businesses, not states. The diversity of suppliers is important for Estonia's energy supply and security of supply. This project does not add a new supplier. Question 4: "What has the Government of the Republic learned from the mistakes of the Nord Stream project so far? " It can be said that Nord Stream's management is more open and ready for dialogue than in previous experience. Question 5: What has been the real environmental impact of the Nord Stream project on the Baltic Sea? " Environmental experts have argued that in such a short period of time many possible factors, such as changes in sediments on the seabed, effects on currents and other such, cannot yet be accurately identified or evaluated. As of today, no fear of change, such as the emergence of dioxins, has been observed, but processes in the sea are taking a lot of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U85	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! Nord Stream plans to establish in July an International Baltic Sea Nature Foundation with its headquarters in Helsinki. The structure of the Fund should include environmental associations, government structures and supranational organisations on the Baltic Sea coast. My question is this: is there any hope that our country will be represented in this fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U87	Thank you. Unfortunately, I am not familiar with the plans to set up the fund that you have mentioned and I am not familiar with the expectations expressed in relation to Estonia either. It is therefore impossible for me to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U88	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I'd like to be more specific. Nord Stream carried out extensive monitoring, including satellite monitoring, and handed over all these reports to countries that are Nord Stream partners. Estonia and Nord Stream do not have real partnerships, and that is why I have this question: does Estonia have this monitoring or does it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U90	Estonia has this monitoring. The results of the monitoring were not handed over by the company manager Matthias Warnig at our last meeting, but when the Nord Stream sponsored Youth Symphony Orchestra gave a concert in the Estonia Concert Hall, chaired by Kristjan Järvi. Our Ministry of the Environment has worked seriously on these materials, and I can confirm what I have said to the public several times before and what I said in my reply today: no measurable negative environmental impacts have been observed as a result of the monitoring so far. At the same time, we cannot say that negative environmental impacts will be excluded in the future, because for several processes, the time from the installation of pipes to the impact assessment has obviously been too short. I am talking here, above all, about the motion of sea sediment. These fears, however, were not only of Estonian environmental experts, but of experts from several other countries, exactly the same as those related to the risk of settling sediments due to the installation of pipes, it was feared that the dioxins deposited in marine sediments would rise up, that fish would also enter the human organism and cause health damage, and that it had not materialised. The presence of dioxins in fish has not increased in measurable limits since the installation of pipes. It can now be said that there are no measurable negative environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U91	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations and calling colleague Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U93	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We sent an inquiry to the Prime Minister on 17 May after the German‐Russian gas pipeline Nord Stream announced on 11 May that it would begin studies on the possibility of building two more pipelines from Russia to Europe via the Baltic Sea. But before that, April 18th. a the installation of Nord Stream's second pipeline was completed early. During the next eight months, Nord Stream will assess the possibility of creating one or two new pipelines, exploring important aspects such as technical solutions, route choices, environmental issues and, of course, financing issues. The results give shareholders the opportunity to assess the volumes of Russian natural gas imports into the European Union in the coming decades, to increase the reliability of gas supplies under existing contracts, as well as to establish plans for further action. The start-up study shows the efforts made by Nord Stream's shareholders to strengthen the European Union's energy security as a long-term objective, to find new gas transport routes and to offer competitive opportunities for the supply of natural gas. It must be said here that demand for gas imports in Europe is increasing in the long term, given the economic and environmental advantages. We know that the Nord Stream International Consortium was formed to design, build and operate a gas pipeline through the Baltic Sea. We all also remember that the consortium is made up of large German, Dutch and French companies. True, Gazprom owns 51% of the shares, but other shareholders also know that. This is also known by our neighbouring countries Finland, Sweden and Germany, whose governments took part in the largest joint project in the Baltic Sea in recent years. Estonia has so far been excluded from the Nord Stream project, as in 2007 the Government of the Republic did not grant Nord Stream's request for permission for studies in the Estonian economic zone. According to the data provided in the study permit application, Nord Stream wished to carry out geophysical and geotechnical studies, visual surveys and to take sediment samples from the Estonian EEZ. One could say whether we want it or not, but the Baltic gas pipeline has already been installed today. Due to opposition, Estonia lost jobs linked to a large project and, of course, investments aimed at this project. It can now be seen that in the history of Nord Stream, a new phase begins when the use of natural gas is growing after what has been happening in recent years in nuclear energy, and not only in those countries that are already receiving gas through Nord Stream. These financial volumes and targets, with which Nord Stream comes out in our Baltic Sea region, lead to the idea that there will certainly be a third and fourth tube. In this regard, I would like to ask who will win that we will stay away from the great construction that is taking place along our borders. Whether we win or lose will, of course, be answered by time. I very much hope that our questioning will give everyone new information and force the Government of our Republic and those who see no perspective in cooperation with Nord Stream to think about which way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U94	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, take part in our negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I agree with the views expressed by Mr Korb, but I would like to point out that the President of the Centre Party, Edgar Savisaar, was the person who said that under no circumstances did Estonia agree with the installation of Nord Stream pipes in the territorial waters of Estonia, that was his firm position. I also want to remind you that it was Edgar Savisaar, the chairman of the Centre Party, who spoke of the Nord Stream pipeline as a modern nuclear bomb today. I hope that in the future we will be rational in our discussions and will not scare anyone. I join Edgar Savisaar's view that yes, these pipes were obviously not needed in our territorial waters. I do not agree at the moment to carry out any ex post review of the decisions taken by the government in 2007, but I wanted to recall with my speech the role of the Centre Party in shaping Estonia's positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U96	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U97	Our final question is Priit Toobali, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Enn Eesmaa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Yana Toomi and Ester Tuiksoo on 9 May s. a request for information on the use of PRIA grants submitted (No 168). Priit Toobali, speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U98	Dear Chairman, Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, A little more than a month ago, eight members of the Riigikogu belonging to the Centre Party submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. The subject of the inquiry is the use of the support funds of the Estonian Agricultural Registers and Information Office. Since the PRIA is subject to the Ministry of Agriculture and is accountable to the Minister for Agriculture, this question is directed specifically at the Minister for Agriculture. We all remember now almost four months ago about the 7 million kroons, the PRIA and the Aardla Land Improvement Society. But soon after the story was recorded in this hall, the national broadcasting show "The Spectator" brought a new story to light. According to "The Spectator," the catering company Estonian Eine forged documents and made false declarations in order to receive 4.2 million kroons of support for the building that had actually been built by the beginning of the application period. According to the former project manager of the object, the papers showed the volumes of the works and the periods during which the works were carried out in accordance with reality. They were shifted in time to later and to a larger amount, and one construction contract worth EEK 7 million was fictitious and was intended to deceive the PRIA. In addition, the former project manager claims that its signature has been forged in the documents submitted to the PRIA. According to "The Spectator," the PRIA has now decided more than a month ago to make a crime report to the prosecutor's office, and the former project manager of the object has promised to do the same, according to whom his signature has been forged. In this case, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Agriculture. Since now more than a month has passed since this "Spectator" story, it may have become clear in the meantime whether or not a request has been made to the court and the prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U99	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Please respond to the floor of the esteemed Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the questioners for their questions. Some projects with negative connotations may have an impact on public opinion on European Union subsidies. It also casts a bad shadow on all the good projects carried out for agriculture and rural development. At the same time, successful projects make up the vast majority. Of the projects resulting from the recovery of the grants, only 0.2% of the grants paid have been recovered. It should be borne in mind that tens of thousands of applications are processed each year in the PRIA. With regard to project processing, there are two different expectations for society: on the one hand, it is expected that the application for grants will be as quick and simple as possible; on the other hand, public money is expected to be used in a targeted and controlled manner. It is important to find a balance between these two expectations. The first question: "When did you last get acquainted with the PRIA's substantive work and how often do you listen to the PRIA's overviews of applying for and allocating grants, either once a month, once a year or once a week? " The review of the PRIA's substantive work is systematic and regular. Every Monday, I receive updated data from the PRIA on the current state of play regarding the processing of all grants. At the beginning of each month, the Ministry shall receive from the PRIA from the beginning of the programming period for cumulative grants and recoveries statistics until the end of the previous month, and separately for the determinations and payments, recoveries and receipts of the calendar month ending. On a quarterly basis, the Ministry receives a detailed report on the infringements detected and the related problems. For each calendar year ending, the PRIA shall draw up a comprehensive statistical and word-based report on the implementation of the measures of both MAK and the Estonian Fisheries Fund. In addition to this reporting, the Minister regularly communicates with the management of the PRIA and meets. There will also be quarterly meetings of the Steering Committee of the Managing Authorities of the Rural Development Plan and two or three meetings of the Clients' Board of the PRIA on a yearly basis. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture has appointed an independent certification body, KPMG Baltics OÜ, which provides an annual assessment of the functioning of the payment agency's internal control system and of the accuracy, completeness and accuracy of the EAGF and EAFRD annual reports transmitted to the European Commission. The report on the 2011 financial year was approved by the European Commission in April 2012. The second question: How many and which problematic applications are still coming to the public in the near future? " First, I ask what is meant by problematic applications. For applicants or beneficiaries of grants, as well as for the PRIA, any application for which the PRIA does not pay the funds to the extent requested by the applicant, the decision to grant a grant already made is revoked or the refund is recovered, or where the processing of which would simply result in misunderstandings between the client and the PRIA, which may be resolved at the level of additional data and explanations as well as in appeal or legal proceedings. In 2011, the total number of applications processed in the PRIA was around 70,000. There are not many cases where the PRIA has recovered the grant from the beneficiary. With regard to the Sapard pre-accession programme, nine companies were requested to reimburse the grants, six companies in the national development plan for agriculture and rural measures for the 2004-2006 period and 15 companies in the current period for MAK. The main cases are those which have ended in court proceedings in favour of the PRIA. Most infringements are already detected before the approval of the applications or payments are made. In 2011, the PRIA rejected 1108 applications for investment aid, 132 of which were ineligible investments or the application/applicant did not meet the conditions of the measure. EUR 10.5 million was not paid in 2011, of which EUR 1.1 million was due to non-eligible expenditure. Question 3: "Please state the amount and number of projects for which the PRIA has lost the European Union money allocated to Estonia in litigation with applicants in the last five years. " I think that the question is wrong. Judicial proceedings in the rule of law are a perfectly regular way of law enforcement. Where the court decides in favour of the applicant, the applicant's right to receive the grant is thus established and no adverse effect on the public in relation to the use of the grant facilities cannot be found. On the contrary, if the Court does not accept the complaint against the PRIA, it will demonstrate the legality and strength of the proceedings carried out by the PRIA. From the beginning of 2008, a total of EUR 41578 has been issued on the basis of judgments. Lost litigation and their small number only confirm the fact that the PRIA operates in a very conservative manner in the award of grants. Time doesn't allow you to have a full statistical overview, but I also have additional materials for further questions. I can give you a more detailed overview of these problems. Question 4: "What are the concrete steps taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to prevent and restore the reputation and credibility of this agency in the future? " The question is that the PRIA's reputation and credibility are low. Several studies in 2008 and 2010 show the opposite. PRIA's reputation was studied in 2008, customer satisfaction in 2008 and 2010. The results of the studies show that clients' estimates of PRIA service are very high. Only a few respondents had negative colored notes. Once again, I can give you more detailed statistics in order to ask more questions. Our concrete steps are the normal continuation of operations and their improvement, which includes the following activities: continuous improvement, simplification and clarification of grants, regulations and procedures for the PRIA, preparation of risk analyses, training of officials, carrying out certification audits already mentioned, and other audits, if necessary. Question 5: "Please describe the procedure for checking the conformity of projects financed by the PRIA with the proposals. Due to major problems in your area of administration, do you consider it necessary to change this procedure? " The cases mentioned are few exceptions. This is confirmed by statistics. PRIA does not only process RDP investment grants. In addition, support for fisheries is treated both at national level and at EU level, as well as management measures, as well as national payments. It is therefore unreasonable to list all these arrangements, but the most important of them are European Union legislation, the rural development plan, the law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy and the relevant regulations of the various measures, which are mostly laid down by the Minister for Agriculture. The procedures and instructions for the processing of grants established by the Director-General of the PRIA have been drawn up in accordance with the above legislation as a tool for checking compliance with the requirements of the application. In total, more than 380 procedures and instructions are available for monitoring, payments, reporting and other operations in relation to the implementation of different actions in the PRIA. Question 6: "How do you judge your work? "Estonia has the least misuse in the European Union and has achieved this through the cheapest payment agency in the European Union, so here are three points and I leave it to the interviewers to make an assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U101	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We certainly do not want to question the need for PRIA grants, both today and earlier, but the money that has been misused is still millions of kroons and millions of euros. The question, on the other hand, concerns "The Spectator" and national broadcasting. Since I have the opportunity to be a member of the National Broadcasting Council, I am also trying to keep an eye on its activities. When you answered the previous inquiry concerning the PRIA and Aardla Land Improvement Association, you said that "The Spectator" was a malicious reflection of what was happening around the PRIA. I now ask specifically about the Estonian Eine story: did you see whether it was adequately reflected by the national broadcasting and "The Spectator"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U103	Thank you. It is too early for me to draw any final conclusions regarding the activities of AS Eesti Eine and the grants it receives. The information published in the "Spectator" programme was certainly also a very important input to the PRIA and on this basis the PRIA has performed a series of operations. Today, a criminal case has also started at the Northern Circuit Prosecutor's Office on the basis of a declaration from the PRIA, and the PRIA has recovered Estonian Eine from AS for a total amount of 272265.8 euros. So this is where I can thank the national broadcasting. They certainly contributed to solving the Estonian Eine case, which in no way alters my assessment of the Aardla polder issue. At this point, however, I would like to acknowledge the national broadcasting. I would now add a few words to the additional information referred to, so that you can get a better overview. As far as the reputation of the PRIA is concerned, we take, for example, the Factum-Ariko study "Price for PRIA as an institution" carried out in 2008: 2/3 of those surveyed consider the activities of the PRIA to be very important to the Estonian society and economy, 17% estimate that this is partly important and only 2% consider it to be of little importance. The assessment of the performance of the tasks of the PRIA is as follows: 29% thinks that well, 31% say on average, 29% did not evaluate and only 1% considered that they are doing badly. The Factum-Ariko study "Customer service and customer information needs" carried out in 2008: 34% of respondents were very satisfied, 57% were rather satisfied and 5 points in the system were 3.9 to 4.7. 34% were very satisfied with the level of customer service, 57% were rather satisfied, 6% were rather unhappy and 1% were not satisfied at all. In August 2010, Turku Studies AS carried out a study "Pollulu PRIA services and customer surveys." The expertise of employees in county offices and centres was assessed on a four-ball scale with a grade of 3.48 to 3.98 and the grades for service were predominantly very high. In 2010, Turku Research AS carried out a customer experience study, during which the research company also thoroughly examined the activities of PRIA. Overall satisfaction and feedback were very good, the results of the study were very positive, and in each operation, more than 95% of the respondents assessed their cooperation with the PRIA as very good or rather good. So I dare say that those people, farmers, aid applicants who directly communicate with the PRIA are quite satisfied with the activities of the PRIA, and we cannot say in any way that the reputation of the institution is low. But you can always do even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U104	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U105	Thank you, Minister. The logical question about this long and comprehensive statistics: what was the number of people interviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U106	This was different from one study to another. I'll tell you what I got here. The number of respondents in the Factum-Ariko study was 500, probably for both studies, and 400 for Turku-Studies AS.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U107	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am sincerely pleased that you are so pleased with the work of the PRIA and with the management, and I will join your assessment. But you said you had the materials with you. Do you also have the materials that show, for example, for the last few years, how many meetings there have been and how they have ended for the PRIA? It's in terms of number, but I'd like to know the number or the percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U109	Thank you. Yes, indeed, I dare say that, as a minister, I am satisfied with the work of the PRIA leadership, which, I will continue to stress, does not mean that it will not be even better. Since the current management of the PRIA has appointed my predecessor, and I have had no need to make any changes in management, I believe that we can both be satisfied with the decision that was taken in our time. But yes, I have more detailed information with me, and I will try to read it to you very briefly. Applications not accepted and not paid in 2011. Applications rejected in 2011 under the investment measures of the rural development plan to be dealt with by the PRIA. A total of 1108 applications were rejected: "non-eligible investment', "46', "non-determination due to an excess of budgetary resources', "948,' the applicant does not meet the requirements laid down in the Action Regulation, "81', "the application does not meet the requirements laid down in the Action Regulation', "5', "non-determination', because less than 30% of the required score has been obtained from the required score. Next. Amount of aid not paid in 2011 in the framework of the actions to be dealt with by the PRIA. Here we are talking about sums. Failure to submit cost documents within the deadline of EUR 4.1 million broadly; partial or total abandonment of the investment of EUR 4,6 million; non-eligible expenditure of EUR 1 million; depreciation of the investment of EUR 715000. Total EUR 10550269. Claims paid by the PRIA in 2008-2012: EUR 7402 in 2008, EUR 7429 in 2009, EUR 7958 in 2010, EUR 14061 in 2011, EUR 4724 in 2012. Total EUR 41577. Debts recovered and not recovered as of April 2012 for the entire period. The budget for this RDP programming period is EUR 934 million. The grants have been paid out by the PRIA by EUR 536 million. Since the beginning of the programming period, the PRIA has made recoveries of EUR 4.7 million in respect of grants. EUR 3,6 million have been received and offset with interest and interest. The balance of the debt, including interest and interest, is EUR 1,1 million. The outstanding debts, including interest and interest, therefore amount to 0,20% of the amount paid. SAPARD, a total of 14 recoveries against nine companies, EUR 455699, or approximately 1% of the total money for the whole period. Total investment measures of RAK, the 2004-2006 National Development Plan: recovery from six companies for seven items, EUR 405006. Recoveries of investment grants in 2008-2012: 15 claims on 23 companies, total EUR 860705. Of this, EUR 526047 has been recognised by the courts for the benefit of the PRIA and EUR 334658 has been unsuccessful as the debtors lost their bankruptcies due to the lack of assets. And last part: initiating and proceeding of criminal offences and suspected fraud as of 16 May 2012. Five cases have currently been brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of applications from the PRIA. With regard to two applications made by the PRIA in May this year, the prosecutor's office has not yet notified its decision to initiate proceedings. Of these seven cases, one relates to the investment project of the Estonian Fisheries Fund, one to the projects of the 2004-2006 National Development Plan and the other to the investment projects of the Rural Development Plan 2007 to 2013. In addition to the cases listed, the prosecutor's office has completed the cases pending at the initiative of the PRIA in four cases without having been brought before the courts, one of which concerned six applicants at the same time. A further three cases that have been brought into proceedings on the initiative of the PRIA have been brought to an end by convictions against applicants. In this respect, fraud intended to obtain investment grants was identified before the disbursement of the aid and no actual misguided use of the aid took place. 46 cases are currently pending, 45 of which are administrative and 1 civil. There are no criminal proceedings pending in court. The content of most disputes is disputes about the final amount of unit-based support and the customer's dissatisfaction with the reduction of grants rather than the award, the ranking of projects, the scores received.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U110	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U111	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! You said that there is strict control, monitoring, and that we have the least abuse of these funds in Europe. Is that why you were so sure and so resolute in the Aardla case that there were no counterfeits or fictitious contracts or so-called money fraud?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U112	Thank you for your question. I have not argued that there can be no suspicious counterfeits or fraud in the case of Aardla. I was talking about recording the Aardla case on "The Spectator." The State or the taxpayer or the citizen of the European Union has not suffered any losses of EEK 7 million, but these amounts are significantly lower. I've given you an overview of them. We can talk here at most about a few hundred thousand kroons, which is a real loss. It is likely that it may also involve work that has been misdirected or not done or other such work. However, since there is also a criminal case in progress, criminal investigations and the actions of the parties involved, the authorities must find out the final truth as to whether any damage has been caused, and if any damage has been caused, the extent to which the damage has been caused. My resentment was due to the fact that the subject was reflected as if the PRIA and other authorities had not taken an interest in the matter, would not have dealt with it and have not discovered it. You were. In the first place, the officials of the authorities discovered that the documentation was not perfect in this matter. Additional documents were requested, further clarifications were made, further expertise was made, and finally, as you know, the PRIA also recovered the aid paid, with a full refund. Which does not mean that the entire amount of abuse has been committed, but, in accordance with European Union law, where false documents have been intentionally filed, false claims, the entire amount shall be recovered, irrespective of whether or not the money has been partly used in a targeted way. And that's what happened with Aardla. So all this coverage wasn't just adequate, and that's what I said. But whether there is any fraud in the individual cases still has to be investigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U113	Thank you very much, Minister. No more questions for you. No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U114	Now we have the opportunity to register after my hammer strike for a speech in a free microphone. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U115	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the Democratic Group decided to go 90% to see the possibility of a life on a small island called Ruhnu. What we saw there, I would also like to convey to you and talk about some of the implications. The trip to Ruhnu began with a very beautiful, yet colorful ship called Runö. The ship's all beautiful and nice, the only thing you could mock about was that when you bought a ship's ticket, it became clear that you must also see which products are intended for the ship's crew for the next two weeks and what cans they must eat, because unfortunately the ship's designers had not been able to place in their kitchen unit in a more private place. But Ruhnu was about to welcome us to the parish elder, who is able to provide both bus driver and medical staff services and to drive a tractor on this small island. A man who has to hold seven occupations that are equally understandable in the context of a small island. Similarly, Kadri, a cheerful schoolteacher, is a sixth - year teacher at Ruhnu School and does not want to go anywhere. But in order not to turn our trip into just listening and noding, we decided to do a little good deed to Ruhnu Island with our small but good company. This favor was the tarring of the roof of the old wooden church built in the 15th century by Ruhnu. With the first swing, it seemed like we were going to go and do it, but in reality it turned out to be a real challenge. Eleven hours of hard work, but the roof of the Ruhnu church was tarred. As a result, some of our people have such a suggestion, which I fully agree with, that the groups that make trips do not have to do anything that big, but that they could do a few little good deeds in the area they've gone out to, help someone, not just listen and nod, but do something really. One of our young colleagues, who has only been in the Riigikogu for a year, said that he felt after this act that he had now actually done something in the Riigikogu during this year. So I suggest that all those members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber today and those who listen to a free microphone maybe somewhere else or read the verbatim also do something real and good for our people to feel the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U116	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. And now I would like to ask my colleague, Heimar Leng, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, Two days later, on 13 June 21 years ago, the first version of the Property Reform Foundation Act (ORAS) was adopted in this very hall. This law tried to remedy the historic injustice suffered by many owners when their houses were nationalized in the days of the Estonian SSR or when they left as Baltic Germans at Hitler's invitation to Germany. However, this redress of injustice did not work out because human greed grew more than Estonia's fair law could have endured. Still no house or barn or shed. That is why the right parties, in particular the Fatherland, began to reform the law and, 30 times in a row, to find the owner for the last and the undercarriage. It got so bad that the fair republic of Estonia started returning houses to the dead. None of this would have happened, nor would any of the Estonians have gotten mad at the thugs, nor would the Estonians have become accustomed to the gangs and their greed if this law had not turned out to be a new injustice. But this new injustice was born and was many times greater than in the war or in the pre-war period. Estonia's fair state began to return houses with people living in them. The law, radically different from the original version, and based on the ideology of the Fatherland Party, forced the residents of the houses to move out of their homes without the state offering them anything to replace, either a replacement apartment or a new dwelling. The 100,000 people affected by the property reform were declared outlaws and left to fate alone. And this by applying the law on the basis of which the property reform is based, which Article 2 of which does not permit a new injustice in the course of the reform. The excruciating injustice of ownership reform is still ongoing. Thousands have been spiritually crippled by this reform, and many have become ill. Many are disappointed in the country. Why is this so, and how could all this happen? And if it did, wouldn't it make sense that the state, which is now run by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party, would try to save the situation and remedy the injustice done to the tenants? On 24 April, NGO Home Law, the Association of Estonian Tenants and the Association of Estonian Cities held a joint conference and a statement was adopted there, which was sent to all the political groups of the Riigikogu. It states: "In order to remedy the injustice caused by the property reform by the state, it is necessary that those Estonian residents who have missed the opportunity to privatise their living space on an overall equal basis receive compensation for the direct material damage caused to them on the basis of the market price of the dwelling they have used and that they also receive compensation for moral damage by equating the forced tenants with persons repressed in terms of social security." At the end of my speech, I will raise a book issued by the tenants with joint efforts. This book is called "Crashed Lives." On two hundred pages there are dozens and dozens of tragic stories about how people were evicted from their homes with children and pets on the street. These stories are written by those involved, or tenants themselves. From this book, future generations will be able to read about the injustice that was born during the first decades of the recreating of the Republic of Estonia, just as we, in our youth, read about the unjust birth of the United States and the destruction of the great Indian nation, as we read in horror about the settlement of the Australian continent by the white and "cultural" person who kicked out the local Aboriginal home and destroyed that nation. I do not want our Estonia to go down in history like this. We can still prevent that. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip's government must take two steps. First, to apologize for the injustice caused to the tenants and thereafter to make moral and material amends for this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-11_U118	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. That means our hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.27 p.m.
