ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U1	Good fellows! Good guests! Good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to the Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. The inquiry concerns the alignment of the Natural Gas Act with the Directive. As you all know, the Government of the Republic approved, at its meeting on 5 November 2011, a draft law amending the Law on Natural Gas and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. On 21 March the draft was here in the Riigikogu Hall at first reading. The purpose of the Act is to separate natural gas from Eesti Gaas as a seller of gas. On 16 February, the National Audit Office sent a letter to the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, which drew attention to several shortcomings in the draft. According to the National Audit Office, the incomplete impact assessment of the draft does not make it possible to determine at all whether the draft contributes to increasing Estonia's energy security and security of supply and to increasing competition. In addition, according to the National Audit Office, the Government of the Republic has taken a superficial view of the potential costs that the draft could entail for taxpayers and gas consumers, and the problems of expropriation of the gas network have not been adequately analysed. In his letter, the National Audit Office recommends that the Riigikogu require an analysis from the initiator of the draft, which would show convincingly how the selected measures increase the security of supply and energy security of the Estonian gas market and diversify the supply of gas. Currently, neither the Riigikogu nor the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have done so. We have four questions to the Auditor General about how he responds to his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U3	Please to the Riigikogu speech chair Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, National Defence Committee s. According to the decision of the Riigikogu of 30 April 2010, the "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations observation mission in Syria" is a draft. The draft provides for the participation of up to two Estonian Defence Force observers on this observation mission. The legal basis for the mission is UN Security Council Resolution 2043 of 21 April 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U5	Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U7	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching six draft laws: the matrimonial property register law, the draft law amending the Notary Payment Act and the Civil Status Acts Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal; the draft law amending the Law on the Securities Market Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi; the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Republic of Croatia concerning the accession of Croatia to the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U9	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia! Please be a little quieter, there's too much noise in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U10	Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill. Fourthly, the Government of the Republic submits a draft law amending the Social Tax Act and related other laws, while the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and other laws in connection with it will be submitted, and Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. Sixthly, the Government of the Republic will submit a draft law amending the pharmaceutical law, while Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when dealing with the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U11	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U12	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to brief you briefly once again on the question of the Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool, about the increase in the pay of teachers. We have already submitted such an inquiry once. Together with my colleagues from the Centre Party Group, I am interested in this issue and we would like an answer to the following questions. It has been estimated that teachers' salaries, which are allocated from the state budget to local governments, can pay the salaries of special needs teachers, psychologists and social pedagogues. This was also confirmed in the Final Protocol on the 2012 state budget of the Delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council. According to Tartu Postimees, however, on 19 March 2012 Jaak Aaviksoo, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, submitted a proposal for coordination to the Ministry of Finance, according to which the money granted from 1 September to the state for the remuneration of teachers should only be paid by teachers, i.e. the previous decision on the payment of salaries of specialized teachers, psychologists and social pedagogues, agreed with the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities. Consequently, we have five questions for the Minister. Since the Minister had to come to answer them today, there are probably answers to them. We look forward to the next time the Minister can come here to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U13	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted eight drafts and two inquiries. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. There's a lot of them. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 18 April, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law on supplementing political party law, initiated on 18 April, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Estonian Central Party faction. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Special Committee on the Control of State Budget' submitted on 18 April, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a Amendment of the Riigikogu's decision of 18 April of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to determine the circumstances relating to the granting of temporary residence permits to foreigners', the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft law on the ratification of the University Act, the Law of the University of Applied Sciences and other Acts not proclaimed by the President of the Republic (89 UA), the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion (207 SE) and the draft law on the ratification of the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (201 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for submission of the documents underlying the second reading. 1 p.m. on April 30, 2004. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 April, Estonia presented its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories, the European Union Affairs Commission, and has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 May at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 April, Estonia presented its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in public health insurance systems, the European Union Affairs Commission and has appointed the Social Committee to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 May at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 April, Estonia submitted its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the annual financial statements of certain types of undertakings, consolidated financial statements and related reports, to the European Union Affairs Commission and has appointed an Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 May at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 April, Estonia presented its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime in the European Union, the European Union Affairs Committee, and has appointed the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 May at 12 noon The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 April, Estonia presented its views on the draft Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on land use, land use change and accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from forestry activities, on the European Union Affairs Commission, and has appointed the Environment Committee to deliver an opinion on the Government's positions and on the draft decision. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 May at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 April, Estonia presented its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on priority substances in the field of water policy to the European Union Commission and has appointed the Environment Committee to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 May at 4 p.m. Members of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassiliev, Aadu Must, Priit Toobal, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhin have withdrawn the inquiry No 141 from the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkool, which dealt with the increase in teachers' pay. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. We've been through the reports, and we've come to the presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Good fellows! Let's move on to the adoption of the agenda. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has proposed to exclude the 10th item from the agenda of this Wednesday session of 13 working weeks, the first reading of the draft law amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Together with this proposal, I shall put the agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The working week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U14	The first inquiry was submitted by Riigikogu members Marika Tuus-Laul, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodich, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Inara Luis, Enn Esemaa, Jüri Ratas, Olga Sõtnik, Viktor Vassiliev, Ester Tuiksoo and Kadri Samson on 12 March 2012. The question is about the pay gap between women and men and bears the number 134. The Social Minister, Hanno Pevkur, will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Marika Tuus-Lauli, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U15	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 March, we submitted an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The subject of this inquiry, as has already been said, is the pay gap between women and men. It has been signed by 14 people on behalf of the group, most of which are men. So the men are completely in agreement with the subject. According to Eurostat, Estonia is spreading the biggest gap between men's and women's wages in the European Union. In 2009, Estonia's gross average wage for male and female workers even exceeded the European Union average almost twice. Now we also know the exact figures: the pay gap is 27.6% in Estonia, and on average 16% in Europe. Several MEPs have pointed out that the real pay gap in Estonia may be even greater as Eurostat compares hourly wages. This means that the lower monthly income of women in part-time employment due to the family will not be taken into account. As we know, the level of education of women in Estonia is considerably higher, with 70% of graduates being women, despite which we still have a pay gap. In the autumn, ladies and gentlemen gave a draft decision to the proceedings, which Parliament approved, so that the government would develop an action plan on how to reduce this gap. But to this day, there's no paperwork on it. Let us hope that the Minister has good messages about this. We have a number of questions and we ask them to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U16	Thank you! I ask the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkuri, to answer the question of the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! The text of the inquiry was read out. Let's go straight to the questions and answers. The first question: "Do you think that the big difference between men's and women's wages is a problem? ' My assessment is not even very relevant. The European statistical comparison shows that the pay gap in Estonia is undoubtedly one of the issues that must and can be addressed. The nature of the pay gap has been examined to address the problem. A survey of the gender pay gap in Estonia in 2009 concluded that the gender pay gap in Estonia is primarily influenced by the interaction of different factors. For example, part of the pay gap is due to the attitudes of Estonian people and different standards applicable to men and women. In addition, it is affected by the difficulties in reconciling work and family life, in particular the problems with kindergarten places, the low participation of men in caring for young children, as well as the unequal distribution of parental leave between women and men, etc. The pay gap is also affected by differences in staff placements at workplaces. One of the biggest reasons for the pay gap, I dare say, is the gender segregation of the Estonian labour market. We look at the traditional specialties of men and women in Estonia. A survey published by Praxis last year also shows that the so-called traditional male disciplines are more paid than women's specialties. The so-called TOP 3 of women's activities is trade, education, health and social. Women's employment there clearly exceeds that of men. If the average wage is 100 units, the average for these activities varies between 80 and 95. If you take a men's TOP, men's employment exceeds that of women, especially in construction and transport. In both areas, remuneration is significantly better. This will certainly create a very large pay gap. I recommend that the interviewers search the Praxis website for a gender pay gap survey in Estonia, where two very important centres have joined the mind: Praxis and the Estonian Applied Research Centre Centar. If the entire study cannot be read, it makes sense to look at a slide presentation. The slide presentation is very well presented in terms of segregation, and the differences can be seen there. The second question: 'Why has the Government of the Republic so far done nothing to reduce the large pay gap between men and women? ' There is no way to agree that nothing has been done. Let's start with one very simple thing. There's gotta be some idea if we even have a problem. This understanding is based on research. If you look at the various activities, the Ministry has managed to use both external and national resources for the gender pay gap and equal treatment. Information campaigns and work-based gender analysis have been done quite nicely. Similarly, experts have been trained. For example, the procedure for issuing an employee- and family-friendly company certificate is currently being prepared. When looking at the end of the gender equality promotion programme, the gender pay gap in Estonia was examined. A conference was also organised in 2011 on the basis of these studies and a collection of articles on the pay gap was published. This year, we have already made information seminars on the pay gap in Tartu, Pärnu, Rakvere and Narva, and we have also talked nicely about them in the media. Communication is a very important part of this work. In the second half of the year there will be further training on the Gender Equality Act. Training and communication, above all, have a longer-term objective; we hope that they will improve the situation. The third question: 'When will the memorandum on the development of an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women reach the government office? " We have come to the end of this work. On Wednesday, the representatives of the Strategy Bureau of the State Chancellery, our Deputy Chancellor and the people responsible for this action plan will hopefully be the last meeting on this topic. We hope that in the coming weeks, after this meeting, this document will also reach the government office. Question 4: What should be the specific measures developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs to reduce the pay gap? ' Concrete actions come in the Action Plan. But if you look a little at this action plan, you can first and foremost talk about better implementation of the law, including, for example, the collection of company wage statistics, a wider awareness of the population, as well as of specific groups, including teachers and employers. Secondly, we want to study and analyse organisational practices and pay systems, because there are differences. If we come back to the pay gap survey, which is available on the website of Praxis, it turns out that one of the biggest problems for Estonia is the 'unexplained pay gap'. When we talk about a wage gap of about 28% in Estonia, only 4% or a little more of it has been explained, the rest has not been explained. In the case of the explained pay gap, we can talk about gender segregation and the wages actually paid less to people in the same positions. However, the vast majority of the pay gap has unfortunately not been explained. That's where all these effects come in. I was talking about an analysis of the pay systems. Of course, this analysis should also give rise to proposals. For example, a wider availability of wage information could be considered. The public sector is doing quite well with this, but it is certainly possible to improve research and the availability of this information by Statistics Estonia. A third important part of the activities is the reconciliation of work and family life. In the framework of the various activities, it should be examined whether and to what extent it is possible to reconcile or harmonise parental benefit and parental leave systems. Of course, if more men started caring for and raising a small child, it would make the pay gap considerably smaller. It is certainly very important that we can ensure the sustainability of the Commissioner's institution. Also important is what is happening in the field of education. In particular, the analysis of the curriculum and, where appropriate, the modification of the curriculum is what needs to be focused on in the long term. Of course, I would like to talk about the fact that segregation is still decreasing, we do not have typical positions for women and men. Here are some positive examples. For example, more young men have come to nursing education than ever before. Let's hope there's more. Question 5: 'What was the difference in average pay between men and women in 2010 and 2011? " Unfortunately, there is no very good study. Statistics Estonia has no longer properly published gender pay statistics in recent years through a study on the structure of earnings. That is why accurate data is almost impossible to say. You mentioned 27.6%, 27.3% of the media has also gone through, 28.7% in the Praxis study. Regardless of what the decimal places are there, we can talk about a 28% pay gap in the order of magnitude. Looking to the future, we have also planned, from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism Programme, a measure such as 'Gender equality and a work-life balance for the years 2012 to 2015'. Now we expect confirmation from Norway. If the confirmation is to be made, we want to go over the full mechanism for collecting gender pay statistics and, if necessary, to clarify it. Last question: "How does the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women in addition to developing an action plan? " All activities must be included in the action plan. Of course, general awareness and its growth are important. It's hard to imagine extra work. We'll try to get to the mountain properly with the basics, then we'll have achieved a much better result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U18	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U19	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The day before last Jürgen Ligi answered a question about the pay gap. This was particularly because he had announced in a TV show that the current teacher's salary was good for a woman. He was asked if this was the general attitude of the government. Jürgen Ligi said that he was afraid that if you bring up a pay gap in the masculine community (and there is only one woman in the government), there would be a great risk that some masculine jokes would begin to sound, that you would see the winch turned over with one topic. I read it right now in the verbatim. Later, he said that the pay gap was only a problem for the Minister of Social Affairs. Can you tell me if your colleagues in the government have any implications for reducing the pay gap in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U20	Thank you. As I said, the gender pay gap agenda will reach the government in the coming weeks. Well, I guess I can hear the opinions of the cabinet members. One of my great tasks in the cabinet is certainly to rely on facts. I also referred to the fact that, when looking at construction, 16.7% of all working men and 1.5% of women work in construction, and if the average wage level is 100 units, the average wage level in construction was 139 at the time of the survey. If we take health care and social welfare aside, for example, we can see that there is almost the opposite of that: 10% of working women work in social or health care, and 1.5% of men. In other words, if 1.5% of women work in construction, 1.5% of men work in social welfare and health care. In social welfare and health care, the average wage level is 83 units. If we take only these two areas, we can see that the pay scissors are almost 60 units there. The question of the pay gap, as I said, must be based on facts. There is certainly a need to improve the methodology for the unexplained pay gap. But I believe that every minister, every member of the Riigikogu, every teacher, every person, regardless of their position, can do something to make sure that the pay gap in Estonia is smaller. Regardless of where a person works, addressing the pay gap should not be deplorable. If someone sees that the person doing the same job gets more of his salary, it is reasonable to ask the employer why the other person gets more of his salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U21	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U22	Thank you. Good minister! The pay gap does not always run in areas of activity, but also in the same position there is a difference in pay. There are quite a few of these facts. You've read out a number of reasons that have emerged from some research, why this difference is so great. Why do you think these studies have not borne fruit and why have we not moved on at all? We know that in Lithuania and Latvia the pay gap is much smaller than in Estonia. In the European Union, too, we are also the first prize in a bad way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U23	Thank you. If you look at the reasons, once again, I suggest you read the analysis done by Praxis and Centari together. It's pretty good reading material, but it certainly doesn't make sense to read it all here. Not only Praxis and Centar, but others have also oppressed known facts in Estonia. First, gender segregation, which is also due to our historical-cultural perceptions. Unfortunately, we do have a lot of women working in health care, the social sector and education, but there are a lot of men working in construction. There are also more men in management positions. Why this is so, it can be examined by the management of companies. I say once again: it will be very important for us in the future to carry out company wage statistics and surveys so that we can have better information about what these reasons are. Right now, the people of Praxis, Centari and our house can highlight the reasons that have been brought to this day, but, well, everyone knows from their life experience that there are so many reasons. As I have said before, the methodology needs to be clarified. It cannot be that, for example, when calculating the pay gap, all the salary data of the Riigikogu are summarised, and since more men work as committee presidents, it can be assumed that there is a gender pay gap in the Riigikogu. Some small pay gap was also detected in the Ministry of Social Affairs, i.e. 1.7%. We started investigating the causes, and in our organization we identified them. In fact, this may be a good stage if public authorities, such as ministries and the Riigikogu, analyse the pay gap within their institution on the basis of this methodology and thus set an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U24	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In my opinion, one key to reducing the pay gap is also in the state budget, at least in those sectors that are financed from the state budget. When we discussed the same subject with the Minister of Finance the week before last, I asked what he thought about applying gender-sensitive budgeting to the state budget. He thought it wasn't a priority, and you don't want to deal with shit like that. What is your opinion, should we draw up a state budget based on gender equality and apply the principles of gender-sensitive budgeting also to the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U26	Thank you. I wouldn't want to confront or want you to oppose one minister to another. The government is certainly acting unitedly, and the government's position on this same gender pay gap agenda, for example, is still emerging in the decisions of the cabinet. The cabinet stands united behind these activities. As far as gender-sensitive budgeting is concerned, there are even teaching materials on this subject. Whether or not we rely directly on this guidance, in any case each ministry must see to it that there is a balance between the various sectors. If we look at the entire state budget, at how much money goes to the pension fund and the health insurance fund, and we think that there are more women among pensioners and more women working in the health care sector, we could say that if we constantly increase the funding for social and health care sectors, the funds for women from the state budget will actually increase. What is important to me is the substance, and we can also deal with it every day when dealing with the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U27	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Is the action plan, which will arrive in the government office very soon, such a fictional work, which will certainly have a very important and correct story, or is it also linked to the 2013 budget, so that it contains specific financial figures and activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U29	Thank you. The Action Plan sets out objectives, activities and money. We've been trying to do it this way. You used the word "beautiful." Of course, we have to write down a description of the situation without it. The Action Plan does not make sense if we do not say what we are doing it for. We are very likely to be able to use external resources as well. One very clear direction in the application and use of external instruments, particularly Norwegian, is precisely to improve the gender balance. More specifically, there's a pay gap in there. So the finances are coming back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U30	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You are certainly familiar with the fact that in quite a number of countries the pay gap has been successfully reduced because young mothers are not forced to accept work that lasts from time to time, but they have much more opportunities to work in their own specialty but part-time. Have you analysed in the Ministry of Social Affairs this action plan, which are the obstacles in our country, that part-time work has not been very successful and is relatively low in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U32	Thank you for your question. Yeah, it's one of the most serious tasks. When we look at countries with a generally recognised low wage gap, we take the Nordic countries or we go a little southward, also southward from Denmark, we see that young mothers are returning to the labour market there very quickly. One indisputable reason for our pay gap is that young mothers are at home with a child for a very long time, fathers are not, fathers are in the labour market. There's two things I need. On the one hand, it would be necessary for fathers to be more at home with young children and for reconciliation of work and family life to be more flexible. On the other hand, there must be childcare facilities and a support system to enable young mothers to return to the labour market. This would also undoubtedly narrow the pay gap. Here Estonia faces quite a challenge so that we have a stable and secure labour market and young mothers can return to the labour market as quickly as they wish. Thirdly, it is important that the possibilities of reconciling work and family life increase. Fourthly, it could be pointed out that the services of both the municipality and the state must be guaranteed, especially with regard to the existence of kindergarten places.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U33	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! It may seem that one topic is sometimes scrolled up, talked about and talked about back and forth, and then the same subject could be in sleep for years. I have a feeling the pay gap between men and women is exactly the same. Women have talked about it, but it's usually there. I have a feeling this time maybe it's gonna be different, because the men have also admitted the problem. Secondly, there is a decision taken at the level of the government and Parliament, which gives hope, regardless of how that decision came about in its time. However, given the general unemployment and poverty situation, we know that one in four children in Estonia lives in poverty or at risk of poverty, and in the light of Estonia's low wages, this problem may seem a little artificial. After all, many say that the main thing is that there is a job at all, be it what it is. At the same time, we cannot miss the fact that we have the largest pay gap in Europe. This is unbelievable. The difference here is almost twice. It has also been stressed today that we have a wage gap of around 28%, probably even more, because some wages have been disregarded. I recently attended a trade union conference entitled 'Equality of work' with equal and dignified treatment'. Harri Tali, chairman of the Confederation of Trade Unions, gave such an interesting example. There was a job ad in Paide that needed a butcher. Male callers were offered EUR 330 and women EUR 278. The difference wasn't huge, but it's typical. I, too, have had exactly the same thing: men who worked in the same position before me received a higher salary than I did, and when a man came to the same position after I left, he received a higher salary than I had received. Unfortunately, we have men judged by their actions and also by their words, but for some reason everything matters to women: age, hairstyle, children's existence, clothing, etc. This is despite the fact that women have a much higher level of education than men. I am far from having a feminist view of the world and would not like to speak at all on this subject. Feminists see harassment problems everywhere and fight for equality. We may be all too familiar with this subject from the past. I think that man and woman have never been equal; they are not now and certainly not in the future. And thank God! However, I would like to emphasise equal treatment. It's important. Women should still have that right. We heard from the Prime Minister and members of the government that there has been little study on this subject. Few studies have shown that almost half of those investigated have confirmed unequal treatment on the labour market. We very much hope that the strategy and action plan currently being prepared in the government will bear fruit, and we hope that there will be both a goal, an activity and a wallet, so that something will finally come out of it. I'll come back to the Employment Contracts Act one more time. In my time, I was almost the only person in this Chamber who constantly stressed that the functions and powers of the Labour Inspectorate have been reduced, the powers of inspection are limited. At the same time, equal pay is a purely labour inspectorate issue; it should help the government fulfil this role and exercise control. Unfortunately, he has not been invited to do so now, and he does not have to do this job. Finally. However, I think that Estonian society is somewhat too rigid, manly and strict, somewhat dull and confident. We see every day in this Chamber how the male ministers come and say that this is the case and not the other way around, and whoever opposes it is against them too. Estonia would need more feminine creativity and openness, but also doubt. It is clear that neither men want to allow women to be by their side, either in politics or in business. Let me give you an interesting example. I am part of the Estonian Group of the Interparliamentary Union. We can see how world debates are taking place on the same subject. It turns out, for example, that in many African countries, almost 80% of those in power are women, mainly women as they are. Look how interesting it is! But it would take more dialogue, consideration of other opinions, female softness, harmony. Finally, the call for you, women: let us also learn better to ask for pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U35	Thank you! In order to be balanced, I would like to ask Viktor Vassilyev of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U36	Mr President! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You know, I'm afraid life is harsh and unfair. Life will never be fair. It's always been unfair. The other thing is that injustice must somehow be tolerance; it must not be that which exceeds the limit of human suffering. As far as the pay gap is concerned, there are higher-paid jobs and lower-paid jobs. You know, as long as men don't go to work as carers and nurses, that pay gap stays. I'm afraid we're trying a little bit to see or cause a problem in one place, but the problem is in another place. We really do have jobs where there's a salary that you just don't live with, be a man, or be a woman, young or old. You're not gonna make it with that salary, that's all. For example, in Finland, a nurse receives as much salary as a member of the Riigikogu in Estonia. There's no problem, men work as sisters. Worldwide, in developed countries men work as nurses, only there is called this profession Nurse, not Sister. There men in this field work almost as much as women and there is no problem. We talk a lot about equality. I don't mind. Politically, of course, man and woman should be equal and to a certain extent socially. But still, as long as men don't give birth, there can be no equality. Do we really want some kind of a hermaphrodite society where people start puking? It's like some really bad sci-fi. I really hope that never happens. I believe that the problem is that the resources of society are being distributed unfairly in Estonia at the moment. As long as we cannot economically ensure that even lower-paid jobs have an acceptable salary, as long as we are unable, through the tax system, to reallocate the wealth of society a little, so that resources can be diverted from where there are higher wages to where they are a little lower, we will continue to talk about gender inequality. No, it's not, it's economic inequality. Not everything that goes on in the economy can explain all its omissions on the basis of some kind of gender principle. Both men and women, all want to live a life of dignity, not a life of poverty. If we were able to get so far that low wages could also make a decent living if, through a fair tax system, I was thinking of progressive income tax, which the right-wing parties are so afraid of, we would be able to ensure that the pay of milking and nurses is not below the dignity of a man, then I think that men would also be working in these positions and there would be no reason to blame gender inequality or any sexist interests for the humiliation of women and less paid. After all, real equality in everything between two sexes will never come, it will never happen, because women as responsible go to a low-paid job, because someone has to nurse these sick old people. Who, then, but women take this cheap job? Men, however, pay a very heavy price for being career-seeking and wanting to earn more money (in other words, to support their wives and children): men's average life expectancy is almost ten years shorter than women's. Yes, women give birth to children and raise them. Men have a very difficult life, so let's take drinking and debauchery. But why aren't we talking about men's and women's lives being so different? Then we will also demand equalisation of life. You know, the world is unfair, and to some extent it remains unfair. But let's try to give more support to the poor, be they men or women, to reach the middle class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U37	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U38	Let's move on to the next question, number 142. This is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu speech chair, Yana Toomi, please! The question is about the fight against HIV and AIDS.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U39	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that this question is not presented by Viktor Vassilyev, because then perhaps more than four members of the Riigikogu would be interested in this topic. This question came about when all of our mailboxes were filled with HIV and AIDS Estonian support network letters. Their concern was that the price of condoms in Estonia is very high. The national HIV and AIDS strategy for 2006-2015 is one of the areas of activity of HIV and AIDS prevention among young people. One of the measures in this field is to promote the use of condoms among young people and to ensure the availability of high-quality condoms for the target audience. At the same time, a study by the Institute for Health Development (which was carried out last year) shows that one in three young Estonians considers condoms too expensive. The consequence is that one in three young people refuses to use condoms. I'm not going to read this whole long story. In this regard, we have six questions for the Minister. Including the HIV-positive network proposals, we ask how the prices of condoms could still be lowered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U40	Thank you. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu Chair, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! You asked me, first of all, how great a problem I consider to be is the excessive price of condoms and whether this high price could increase the number of HIV infected people. Looking at statistics, it appears that young people's awareness that condoms protect against sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, has increased year after year. It can be said that, according to the latest study, 98% of young people aged 18 to 24 are aware of this, or almost all of it, and the majority of them are positive about using condoms. Young people with lower levels of education and lower incomes, among whom risk behaviour is more common, certainly need more attention. In Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa, there is a separate risk group of young people whose partner has had a relationship with the injecting drug addict. I don't dare say the price of condoms is too high. This morning, we stopped by the store and looked at the prices. The condom costs €25.50 per cent. By comparison, one Snickers pays 50 eurocents (most condoms can be picked up cheaper than one Snickers), a 100-gram Nurri chocolate costs 79 eurocents, or a 100-gram Nurri chocolate gets two condoms, a pack of gum is also more expensive than a condom, a waffle ice cream is also more expensive than a condom. When we talk about young adults who can drink, it has to be said that a bottle of beer gives you two condoms, when you buy the cheapest beer, and when you buy a little more expensive beer, you get three condoms for a bottle of beer. This list may be continued. In that light, I don't think condoms are very expensive. If there's a choice to take a bottle of beer or a pack of gum instead of safe sex, I'd definitely choose safer sex. The second question: "What have the specific activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs so far been to reduce the number of young people who are not buying and not using condoms because of high prices? 'The National Institute for Health Development organises campaigns to promote the use of condoms on a regular basis. Young people with low-insured and difficult social backgrounds are also at risk. First of all, they may have trouble buying condoms. Free condoms are actually guaranteed for these at-risk groups and for young people in a particular group. The National Institute for Health Development distributes free condoms, in particular to people at risk of HIV, through specific services. During several campaigns, free condoms have also been distributed to everyone. One important aspect of this issue is certainly that, although much has been said about the price of condoms, it is even more important to note that all of this concerns social attitudes in a wider sense, of course also attitudes in the field of education and the perceptions of this topic and sexual health in the field of education. Young people could and should be aware of this issue and be able to make choices. They can, of course, be taught by family, school and society in general. The ability to make choices and set priorities is extremely appropriate when it comes to choosing whether to buy a condom or whether to buy Snickers, Nurr chocolate or a bottle of beer. So general awareness and sexual education in the school network are also extremely important. Question 3: 'How do you assess the proposals submitted by the Estonian HIV-positive Network? ' In order to raise the debate, even in this Chamber, these proposals were certainly welcome and we have the opportunity to discuss the price of condoms. However, if you look at their proposals on VAT, it is worth recalling that the special nature of VAT already applies to condoms. Question 4: "Does the Ministry of Social Affairs have any information on how the aforementioned proposals would affect the state budget? " At the moment, we do not have such data. Question 5: "As your minister, do you have any information on how the price of condoms will develop and on how much of it will be a mark-up? " The honest answer is that the final price of condoms for the consumer is to sum up the share of supply price, mark-up and VAT. But how big one or the other part is there, I don't know. Similarly, the Minister does not know what the cost of producing bread or beer is and what the mark-up is. As I said, the 2006 Decree of the Minister of Social Affairs, established on the basis of § 15 (2) (2) (2) of the VAT Act, provides that the rate of VAT applies to medical devices, including condoms, at 9%. Question 6: "How does the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to enhance HIV and AIDS prevention among young people? ' We work effectively with the Ministry of Education and Research and organise various campaigns for young people. But the day-to-day work takes place in schools. Sexual education must come first and foremost through the curriculum. Activities funded by the Institute for Health Development are primarily aimed at improving the quality of prevention, developing methodological materials and training for teachers. In addition, HIV information is disseminated through different channels. We are pleased that ministries other than the Ministry of Social Affairs and Education and Research also have programmes to improve the education of young people in sexual areas, such as the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U42	Thank you. You have at least one question. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I am very sorry that I can only ask one question, because I would like to ask five questions. But I'm going to talk about the last thing I've heard about, a study by the Institute for Health Development on sexual education. You are probably aware that Russian teenagers are almost three times less informed about the use of condoms. Experts from the Institute for Health Development claim that the reason is that human education takes place at school in Estonian, but when people speak the language, as Minister Rein Lang says, so and so, there can be no debate. The result is that people are simply not aware of it. Do you see a problem here? Does the Ministry of Social Affairs suddenly intend to change this practice in any way because there are things that directly affect children's health?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U44	Thank you. What is the problem, then, with poor education or with no language skills? Let's keep talking about what the problem is. I understand that the problem is that young people do not have enough language skills and that this skills should be strengthened. If we're looking at a new national curriculum, that's where the health education got pretty good. But I'm pretty sure that there's a need to help all the teachers in this subject. Time changes very quickly. The understanding of sexual education and everything else that goes along with it need to be updated over and over again. Several non-profit institutions train teachers, as well as the National Institute for Health Development and the Ministry of Education and Research. But I don't want to be involved in questions about language learning and sexual education. Of course, you can't leave everything to school. I expect and hope that if a child has problems with language skills, his or her parents will still be interested in getting proper sexual education and being protected from cases that may have inappropriate consequences for a child or family, such as premature pregnancy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U45	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U46	Thank you. Good minister! Estonia is at the forefront of these sad tables. I am thinking of tables on the number of drug deaths and the number of HIV-infected drug users. We are in such a bad situation that we have had the highest figures in Europe in this area for ten years in a row. Why haven't we been able to make it any better? You've been a minister for quite a few years, too. What has not been done, and how can this be corrected sharply?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U47	Thank you. I suggest you get to know history a little bit. Over the last ten years, Estonia has made very good progress in combating the spread of HIV. Our example is also very much highlighted in the fight against HIV in other parts of the world. We've been able to reduce the number of primary infections, so it's a little over 300 a year. Compare it to where we were ten years ago. This is the result of a very long and efficient work. We are no longer talking about HIV spreading mainly among drug users and via injecting, but rather it is spreading sexually from partner to partner. These changes are clearly visible. I guess they go along with what we have to do. From the countries of this region and perhaps in Europe as a whole, Estonia is testing HIV infection most (if we look at the number of tests per thousand inhabitants) and as a result we get the most infected. These are examples, progress and developments that are very much appreciated in Estonia's international picture. So I don't want to agree with you that nothing has been done. As a testimony to this, I have been invited to talk about Estonia's example during the summer to a major conference on HIV and AIDS organised in cooperation with the UN and WHO. I believe that this international recognition, as well as the course of WHO experts in Estonia last week, proves that the work we have done has been right. Of course, this must be done further, and we cannot be satisfied with the result, but I do not want to agree that we are in a bad situation on the side of the action. Of course, if there was more money, more could be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U48	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Minister has now pointed out that Estonia's achievements in this field are appreciated in the world. I do not want to accept this, and I want to convince at least those people who are in the Chamber today that Estonia's situation in this area is extremely serious. I'll get some numbers. More drugs are injected in Estonia than in any other country of the European Union, and in the ranking of drug deaths, we are at the top in Europe uncompetitively. We have a total of 146 drug deaths per million inhabitants. In Norway, which is the second highest in drug deaths, this figure is 81 or almost half lower. We still want to compare ourselves with Latvia. In Latvia, this figure is 12.2 or almost 11 times smaller than in Estonia. I mean, we're still enthroning very powerfully in the first place right now. According to the registration of causes of death, for example, 101 people died last year in Estonia due to drug use. The number of HIV-infected drug users in Estonia is also the highest in the European Union. For a million inhabitants, we have 63.4 people infected with HIV as a result of drug use, with Lithuania in second place, with 34.9 fewer or half. The European average is only 2.87. This means that we will exceed the level of the European Union 22 times. These are the real numbers. Speaking of absolute numbers, it can be said that last year, 372 people were infected with HIV in Estonia and at least 177 of them were infected by drug use. The European drug report also highlights Estonia in a bad way: if, for example, about 15% of students in Estonia had tried narcotic drugs ten years ago, now, ten years later, 36% have done so. I would like to emphasise once again that Estonia has been at the forefront of these sad figures for ten years in a row. What are the problems? One problem is certainly that, if, for example, heroin is mainly used in Europe, there is a white Chinese, or fentanyl, in Estonia, and, even worse, a white Persian, which is hundreds of times stronger than heroin, for example. That's where the troubles are. I would also like to say that we have been dealing with drug treatment, but there has been a constant reduction in prevention money, especially in crisis years. Mostly money is put into medicine, but not prevention. Of course, more money needs to be put into preventive work in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U50	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U51	I'll be really quick. I wasn't gonna come to the chair, but I was just tripping on my phone and it turned out it wasn't that cheap. 25 cents and 50 cents sound adorable, but 25 cents is in crowns 3.90. If we take a teenage young man who probably does this every day, he's gonna cost 117 kroons a month. Hello, people! It's expensive, it's wildly expensive! It's not normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U52	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U53	Good fellows! Anyone who wishes to register for a hammer strike in a free microphone! Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U54	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, as many as you are in the Chamber! There are six colleagues here, and the seventh is the President of the sitting. So, recently, last week, there was quite a controversy over whether to give 16-year-olds the right to vote. The debate got pretty intense. But why? There are reasons for this. The point is that there are 50,000 children living below the poverty line in Estonia, the thing is that children and young people need warm food in upper secondary school, the thing is that they have taken away the ranch allowance, and the thing is that they are taking away the free places of higher education. In order to maintain any popularity among young people and to bow to them, the Reform Party created such a great thing to give young people the right to vote. First of all, it was announced that the matter was extremely perspective and that a draft law would be launched, which of course the Constitution must be amended. Later, they withdrew a little, but the matter was discussed. Then the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the matter, and the subject reached television. When it turned out after the TV show that 90% of the population were opposed to the fall in the election age, a bit of slowing down was slowed down. How important is this problem to society at all? 16 to 17-year-olds make up 2.4% of voters in Riigikogu elections and 2.8% of voters in local elections. Is it a lot or a little? In view of the fact that the Estonian Youth Association claims that 11% of young people are active in society, which means that the award of voting rights to young people aged 16 to 17 may have the greatest impact on the results of the elections, what is the point of this? This is not the way to influence the overall political picture, but the number of votes cast on one candidate or another can be slightly influenced, though. Young people are quite simply manipulative because they are often together in groups. Another thing that the right-wing parties are certainly afraid of: the popularity of the Centre Party youth body is increasing. There are currently 5,900 people in the Centre Party Youth Council, only 5,000 in the Reform Party's similar organization. Of course, young people can be influenced. We have seen various youth gatherings, where there is a tent of one, another and third parties side by side, that young people go through all of them, from the Reform Party they get a condom, from the Centre Party they get a pencil, from the Red Balloon somewhere, from the Social Democrats, I think they get something else. They fill out the form here and fill out the form there, and then they brag about filling out three forms, and they're written in all three youth associations. But, of course, every party is watching when a young person turns 18 years old. Then a statement is made that he wouldn't want to join the Reform Party. He will. But since he's still in a youth community somewhere, he's going to join the party. After that, this person will be hunted down the registers and found. It turns out he's really joined two parties, but the party itself claims he hasn't. He doesn't even remember that he's done it. The thing is, a 16-year-old person is something quite different than an 18-year-old person. When you are 16 years old, you can make choices that are embarrassed in two years' time because two years is a huge time in a young person's life. The Centre Party does not object to the election. No such decision has been taken. But we don't want any stupidity, and we're against taking away their childhood from their children. We are opposed to manipulating children. You gotta think about it. You gotta think about it. When the Reform Party says that there are too many old people in society that we give young people the right to vote, it is manipulation of demography. If there are many old people, then it must be taken into account, society must be taken as it is, but not manipulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U55	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, the people and their colleagues are still being held accountable for what has been done in the last week, free of sittings of the Riigikogu. That's what I do, and at the same time I reject certain rumors. For two weeks, I had the honour of attending one very important training in the Kingdom of Belgium. This took place through the mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the mental support of the Alliance of Democrats. In Belgium, the training of EU foreign mission leaders took place for the first time in history. It was attended by specialists of three profiles: generals, or military personnel, police officers and diplomats. There were also two politicians, about whom I would say they were unprofile. It was me and a politician from our neighbouring country, Finland. Training was in this sense extremely important in providing an overview of the European External Action Service (EEAS), its structure, objectives and practice. Mostly said, as you can see from the subject, from missions. The most important question that arose during this training was whether these missions, including those financed by our taxpayer, which take place both inside and outside Europe, will create added value and additional security for our people. Personally, I'm sure they will. During the discussions, we talked specifically about foreign missions and more generally about security, we talked about the security of Europe and the European Union. In this Chamber, we have discussed very much about participating in several support funds, helping other countries. In Belgium, too, we once again reached the point of helping Greece in our discussions, about the incomes of Greeks, Greek pensioners and Greek workers. When I told my Austrian colleague about the money numbers that our people are ticking on the bill on retirement day and the amounts that come into the wallet on payday, it was an extremely big surprise for those I talked to, especially for my Austrian colleague. They were surprised when it turned out that there were considerably fewer financial opportunities in Estonia to cope than in Greece or other European Union countries. We talked about solidarity, both within and outside Europe. They were seriously surprised and the contribution with which the majority of the Riigikogu decided to support our participation in the European Stability Mechanism and through it in the Greek aid packages made them shake their heads. They wondered how we could explain to our people how to help people who could do better. My answer was that it is very complicated. On this basis, I came to see that we have too little to explain outside Estonia, what our real opportunities are and what the real opportunities are for our people. I'm sure there's a big field of work ahead of us. But, to conclude my speech, I would like to say from this remote control that a lot of rifts are circulating in several Estonian circles. It is claimed that Laanet is facing a high position in Europe and is about to leave the Riigikogu. My answer is that I am not leaving the Riigikogu now; I am not going on any foreign mission or leaving Estonia. I cannot claim that this will never happen, but it will not happen today or now. All the best! Have a nice coming Volbrian evening for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-30_U57	Thank you. There's no more calls. Today's agenda is exhausted. Dear colleagues, I wish you, your families and loved ones a beautiful Spring Day tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.26 p.m.
