ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the diplomatic corps! We will start the 16th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Riigikogu - Inara Luigas, Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodich, Lembit Kaljuvee and Kalle Laane - report an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. We have been listening to interesting presentations in the Riigikogu lately. One of them was the Governor's report on the Bank's activities. Both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this Chamber, we asked the President of the Bank what cooperation with the Government of the Republic had been on such a subject as a tax on financial transactions. It turns out that the Executive Board of Eesti Pank has no position on this tax at all, yet the Government of the Republic has partly expressed its opinion on the financial transaction tax. We have four questions for the Prime Minister. We would like to know the form in which cooperation has been made to address this issue. Recently, there has been a great deal of talk about this tax in Europe, and the European Parliament has come to such a decision, a report seeking to adopt a directive on amending the financial transaction tax system and the directive. As a result, the Republic of Estonia is also obliged to make adjustments and corrections to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U3	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of 12 members of the Riigikogu, I will report to the Minister of Education and Research, Mr Aakuskole. In recent years, the performance of our mathematics team at the International Mathematical Loss Symposium has fallen dramatically. We would like to discuss this and a few more specific issues in this area. We attach great importance to this, as from 2013 the mathematics exam will become mandatory for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U5	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U6	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Riigikogu! I hand over the draft amendment to § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. There have been quite a number of disputes about whether support specialists must be financed and may be financed by the state funding or by the local government from its own revenue base. There is also a social agreement on this, namely that it has been agreed between the local government and the Government of the Republic years ago that support specialists can be financed from the so-called teachers' wage fund. At the same time, the current Minister of Education has said that this should not be done. In order to discuss this issue properly in the Riigikogu and make a decision on it, we propose that it be recorded in § 82 (3), which lists the specialists who may be financed from the budget allocation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U7	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. Now, let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U8	Our item on the agenda is the debate on the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 'Estonia's opportunities and interests in Asia until 2025' as a key national issue. Let me briefly introduce to you the procedure for discussing this arising from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be up to 20 minutes, then the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. After that, Raivo Vare, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. I'm sorry, I've confused the line. Before the presentation of the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet is up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers are up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions on this item. After that there are negotiations, members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. In accordance with our good practice, I propose that representatives of the political groups speak first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Dear fellow Members, I would like to present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencys, guests! Last spring, the Committee on Foreign Affairs launched hearings on the Asian strategy and decided to draw up a report on the basis of them, in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Its aim was to map Estonia's national interests and possible activities over the coming years to ensure its positions in international competition on the brink of the Asian-Pacific region. I believe that the drafting of this report will give the Commission a concrete form of work and encourage other committees to use this form as well. When the report was finalised, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to present the results of its work in the plenary session of the Riigikogu, which is why we have launched a debate on the important national issue that is taking place here today. I would point out that according to the law, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs organises a general discussion of Estonian foreign policy every February. We remembered that we held the last such sitting on 21 February this year. At the same time, the Commission considers that the plenary session of the Riigikogu could occasionally also focus on a deeper discussion of some foreign policy issues. It is expected that today's session will be the beginning of a good tradition. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has consistently paid attention to developments in Asia already in at least the last three formations. In 2006 and 2009 the Commission delegation visited China, and at the end of its X membership a separate analysis was commissioned from the Tallinn University Working Group on China's future developments. At the beginning of this composition, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to undertake a more in-depth analysis of developments in Asia in anticipation until 2025. Our aim was to look at developments in Asia from as different angles as possible, listen to the views of the public, private and third sectors of Estonia on this subject and find out what the government should do given limited resources, so that Estonia would be better prepared to react and make rapid use of the opportunities of the region that is building up political and economic importance in the world. Here we might ask why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has devoted so much attention to Asia in its work. Firstly, the most important reason is to draw attention to the major changes taking place in the world and to the need to modernise Estonia's foreign policy and foreign economic policy in relation to these changes. Secondly, a more systematic and cross-cutting analysis will help to better map priority activities, particularly at national level. Similar strategies have been written in recent years by many of our partners in Europe, including, for example, our northern neighbour, Finland. Today, it is evident that the world's gang is expanding from the Euro-Atlantic region to other parts. There has even been talk of the possibility that in the 21st century the Asia-Pacific region could become a new hub affecting global developments. It is believed that the British and American centuries will be followed by the Asian century. In the mid-19th century, the world was dominated by the British Empire, whose motherland produced more than a third of the world's total economic output. Great Britain's energy consumption alone was then five times that of the United States and 155 times that of Russia. The British controlled more than a fifth of world trade. As early as the 1880's, the United States, quickly overcome the turmoil of the civil war, became the world's leading economy and has remained in this position to this day. Apart from the additional impact of World War II on the economic positions of the United States in the world, their share of the world economy has been consistently more than a quarter over a century. China's opening policy, the collapse of the Soviet Union, the awakening of India in the early 1990s, the emergence of the Gulf states and many other events have accelerated global processes, which have significantly reduced the relative influence of the US and the Western world in the world. According to the IMF, China could already pass the United States in 2016 and become the world's largest economy. In fact, as early as the second half of the 1980's, the Asian century began to be spoken of. One of the key events in developing this term was, among other things, the meeting of then Chinese and Indian leaders in Beijing in 1988, Deng Xiaoping and Rajiv Gandhi. China, especially, but also India's rapid rise over the last few decades has been a factor that has forced the world to become increasingly interested in Asia. Past success stories, such as Japan, the Republic of Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore and others, naturally add dynamism and multifacetedness to the Asian picture. However, if we take a moment to rise above the last few centuries when the Western world has dominated, we quickly realize that the Asian uprising is not a unique phenomenon. We tend to forget that China, for example, as a country, has been in existence for more than 2,000 years, and that a significant part of the discoveries that have affected mankind's development come from Asia. According to studies by economic historian Angus Maddison, Asia's share of the world economy was clearly predominant until 1500. In 1850 China and India accounted for 40% of the total global economy. Until the 17th century of Ming dynasty, according to Maddison, China was the most economically powerful country in the world, providing nearly a quarter of the world's total output and a third of economic growth at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly no single Asian approach and this is not what this report is asking for either. Rather, it is important to perceive the diversity within Asia and the opportunities it brings. It is important for Estonia to define both short-term and longer-term interests in relation to Asia. The completion of the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs coincides with the work of the Government of the Republic, where the preparation of the Asian programme has reached its final stage in the run-up to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission has followed the completion of this programme, and with its report and its recommendations it will certainly complement Estonia's proposed strategy towards Asia. The fact that the Estonian Development Fund, in cooperation with the Indian embassy, carried out a monitoring programme is also of growing interest to Asia, the results of which were finalised in a report published a few days ago. In preparing this report, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs conducted 20 hearings with representatives of several ministries and agencies, private and third sectors. To address the issue more systematically, an analysis was commissioned from the research team of the Tallinn University Institute of State Sciences, which is separately available as an annex to this report in electronic form. In November 2011, a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Japan and the Republic of Korea to better understand what was happening in the region. In March 2012, I myself attended India with a delegation from the Development Fund. The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been drawn up on the basis that it primarily contains the information collected during the hearings. In eleven chapters of content, the reader finds, by sector, important inputs from different hearings. A separate chapter also reflects the most important emphasis and recommendations of the Tallinn University Working Group's analysis. The annexes to the report provide a list of hearings by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a list of bilateral agreements with Asian countries and a chronology of parliamentary relations since 1997. The reason why chronology begins in 1997 and not, for example, in 1992 or even 1919, is unfortunately a gap in recording the history of the Riigikogu. This gap in parliamentary history should be filled as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now pay your attention to the recommendations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Government of the Republic. On the basis of the hearings, the Commission drew up a total of 24 recommendations concerning the activities of different ministries or agencies. I would start with the presence of the Estonian state in Asia and possible further steps. Estonia currently has embassies in the countries of East and South Asia in Tokyo and Beijing, and from the coming autumn also in New Delhi and the Consulate General in Shanghai. A non-resident ambassador's seat in Southeast Asia has also been established. The Enterprise Estonia has its representatives in Tokyo and Shanghai. In addition, we have a considerable network of honorary consuls in the countries of the region. In the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, the existing network is optimal given our current resources, but in the medium term it is essential to expand our presence. Firstly, this can be done by strengthening existing embassies. The ongoing establishment of a new embassy building in Beijing provides a good opportunity to strengthen Estonia's presence in China. However, new locations for embassies could be considered in the coming decade in the Republic of Korea and Singapore. The government could seriously consider transferring the ambassador's seat from Tallinn as soon as possible to Singapore, for example. According to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is essential that, in order to ensure a more active communication towards Asia, government agencies should already systematically work to strengthen their respective capabilities, such as language skills or access to information in Asian languages. This is particularly the case with the targeted preparation of diplomats, because unlike the representations in the Western world, Asian countries of destination require a more specific approach. The hearings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs revealed that our companies expect the country's support in Asia, in particular in finding contacts and making relevant information available. In the latter case, it is not excluded that economic information services may be subject to a fee. Closer cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Enterprise Estonia was considered essential in order to ensure the necessary consular services for target groups interested in Estonia and greater visibility of Estonia in the country of residence. This is a good example in Shanghai, where both the Consulate General and the Enterprise Office can fit under one roof. But even there is room for development. Why should Shanghai not invest in a better location, for example, so that the presence of the agency itself can act as additional and free outdoor advertising? In order to strengthen relations with Asian countries, high-level business visits should be organised more effectively. The Government of the Republic could plan at least two high-level Asian visits each year, involving business delegations. The President of the Republic should also be more active towards Asia. Estonian designers recently experienced how much President Ilves's video message contributed to their visit in South Korea. At the same time, it is important that the visits are followed by feedback and a targeted development of what has been achieved. In order to strengthen bilateral relations between Estonia and Asian countries, it would be necessary, on the basis of the existing contractual base, to map the needs for its expansion and to set objectives and deadlines for further action. As a member of the European Union, Estonia, of course, has a role to play in developing policy and trade agreements towards Asia, including the European Union's human rights dialogue with Asian countries. At the same time, we should use more purposefully the information procurement capabilities of the European External Action Service (EEAS) and representations. Ladies and gentlemen, Trade relations are clearly at the heart of Estonia's Asia strategy. Today, Asian countries are a modest part of our foreign trade portfolio. At the same time, it is evident that in the coming decades, Asia will remain a global growth centre. Despite possible setbacks, demographics in particular, but also a number of other indicators in the report, say that, unlike our main market today in Europe, for example, Asia has greater prospects for growth. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu therefore attaches great importance to the initiative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to develop a national Asian programme that includes specific objectives to strengthen our external trade capacity towards Asia. The Asia programme should be followed by sectoral analyses and action plans drawn up on their basis. The Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that there should be a coordinating role for the State Chancellery Strategy Office. Here, however, we need to draw attention to a slightly wider issue than Asia alone. In recent years, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has analysed our overall foreign economic policy. We believe that the situation has improved over the years, but the biggest problem still lies in institutional barriers, lack of information flow and lack of coordination. It is no secret that expanding the export and foreign investment base is critical for Estonia with an open economy in the difficult years ahead. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes to the Government of the Republic to seriously consider the establishment of a Foreign Trade Commission, which at ministerial level would be better able to coordinate the relevant activities from the planning of high-level visits and the extension of the contractual base to the implementation of budgetary resources in strengthening Estonia's foreign trade positions. At the hearings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu several times the fact that Estonian entrepreneurs have several good starting points for Asia. Firstly, in Asia, Estonia is seen as part of Europe, without distinguishing between the so-called old and the new Europe. Secondly, Estonia's membership of the Nordic countries gives the background to a high quality mark, which will certainly be useful in brand-sensitive Asia. Although we have a number of good examples of success on the Asian market, we heard in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, for example, companies such as Liviko, GuardTime and NOW! From the experience of Innovations, there is still a long way to go, even to a level comparable to that of Finland. A development leap requires the exchange of good experience and information. Therefore, the proposal of Estonian entrepreneurs to create an Asian business centre in Estonia, which would help Estonian companies on the one hand, and the contact point would also be Asian entrepreneurs in Estonia on the other. In order to promote Asian policies and business communication, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it important to start conducting regular Asian forums in Estonia. I am pleased that the Riigikogu conference room was the place where Estonia's first Asian forum took place on 23 May. The Forum led by the Development Fund brought together a large number of Asian interested parties from both the public and private sectors, which merely confirms the need for such a forum. Among other things, participants in the first Asian forum mentioned several times that Estonia needs a more flexible immigration policy than today. This would give us the opportunity to compete more successfully in the international division of labour. This concerns both R &amp; D cooperation between higher education institutions and entrepreneurship with international competitiveness. The recommendations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs provide a reference to address issues related to restrictions on residence and work permits. One of the biggest problems of Estonia's international competitiveness is the lack of air connections. Here Asia offers us a great opportunity. Given Estonia's very favourable geographical position as an alliance between Asia and Europe and, for example, India and North America, our country should fully support the activities of Tallinn Airport and Estonian Air to expand air connections, including in the Asian direction. According to forecasts, in 2025 the total number of air passengers is 75% for Asian residents. This, of course, leads us to the tourism sector offering more and more income to Estonia. Already today, the World Tourism Organisation, operating at the United Nations, makes it clear that the most economically expected tourists come from India and China. The improvement in the availability of consular services provided by Estonia in Japan, China and India and the increase in the Schengen visa space create prerequisites for the increase in the number of Asian tourists in Estonia in the coming years. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should therefore, through its administration, initiate a programme of targeted development of the relevant infrastructure and the knowledge and skills of the service providers in order to better service Asian tourists. There is certainly a need to expand language learning. At the moment, we have only a few schools of general education in Estonia, where as an elective, we can study some Asian languages. The delegation of the Chamber of the Service Economy just went to the Republic of Korea to feel that English is not the opening of all doors. It is important to know the local language and know the local culture, and this applies to communication with most Asian countries. Thus, in its recommendations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has found that the Ministry of Education and Research should develop targeted support programmes for teaching Asian languages and culture in Estonian general education schools. However, through cooperation between universities, action should be taken to create a strong and, where possible, international language learning centre in Estonia. In order to better understand what is happening in Asia and to develop possible policy recommendations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it necessary to support more Asian research programmes with our universities or research institutions. During a recent visit to Iceland, the Chinese Prime Minister gave his host colleague an icebreaker model. This symbolic gift merely confirms the importance that China already attaches to the opening up of the North Sea route through the Arctic for large-scale freight transport. This new maritime route would make it possible to significantly promote maritime trade between Asia and Europe. It is not unnecessary to mention that it is even cheaper to send a sea container from Tallinn to Hong Kong than to London. Given the potential of the North Sea route, the Estonian logistics sector should strive to exploit opportunities today. The Government of the Republic should also play a more active role in shaping Arctic policy in international organisations, in particular through its neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, As the purpose of this report is to support and encourage the Asia-related debate in Estonia, it is obvious that this issue will continue to remain an important topic on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Understandably, the Commission will monitor how its recommendations are taken into account. The Committee on Foreign Affairs expects a written review of the implementation of the recommendations by the Government of the Republic for discussion during each session of the Riigikogu. The first review of the recommendations will take place during the autumn session of this year. It is not excluded that, alongside a more general approach to the subject, more attention will have to be paid to certain areas in the future, as well as to the countries of destination. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who, with their advice and strength, contributed to the preparation of the Asian strategy report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A special thanks, however, to the advisor of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Möldri, whose commitment would not have been the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U10	Thank you very much, good fellow. You have questions too. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I'm really glad we want to go to Asia. But if you look at the map, you can see that we have to go over or around our big neighbor Russia. How do you think Russia feels about this? Is he helping us, or do we have a plan to get support from our great neighbor to move around or across?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U12	Thank you, Lembit, for a good question. In a way, I don't know what the problem is. In my opinion, we have fully developed relations with Russia. Trade, as you know very well, grew by over 50% last year alone, tourism grows by over 40%, and the last three years show a very nice trend. You are also expected to be aware that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has worked during this year to expand contacts and dialogue with Russian partners. A little more than a week ago, I went to Moscow myself, met my Russian colleague, Alexei Pushkov, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the State Duma. The meeting was also held with Mikhail Margelov, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation Council. A meeting already under preparation, which I hope will take place in Pihkva and South Estonia in the first week of July, just confirms, in my opinion, that our parliamentary contacts will also help to find solutions to such issues as you referred to in your question. I think it is also in the interests of Russia that there are countries in its neighbourhood that contribute positively to the development of world trade relations and other relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U13	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I was very excited to see this report. I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed. Disappointed in the sense that the report focuses mainly on China, Japan, India and a little bit on South Korea, but I think that Southeast Asia is completely excluded. As a kind of Southeast Asian patriot who represents a Thai-Estonian parliamentary group here, I would still have assumed that I would have found perhaps a few pages on this subject, but I did not find two lines. There is little in Thailand, Burma or Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam or Malaysia. I personally think that Estonia's opportunities in these smaller, so-called Southeast Asian tiger countries would perhaps be even greater than in India and China, where everyone is struggling now. In particular, in view of the fact that the Estonian Government deals in principle with the countries of which the report is written, I ask whether, in future, it is hoped that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament will perhaps commit itself to another issue, such as South East Asia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U15	Thank you, good Valdo! I sincerely welcome your activity, for example, under the leadership of the Thai Friendship Group. I think that's a week from now when a delegation from the Thai Parliament comes to visit us at your invitation. We have, of course, a whole series of issues that, for example, in the case of Thailand, are raised, even the subject of reciprocal visa liberalisation. But if you look at the report more calmly and closely, you will actually see that these countries are not only mentioned, but that there has also been very specific information on them. The communication table presented at the end of the report, which concerns parliamentary contacts to this day and also bilateral agreements between countries, is quite typical. As you pointed out, this shows that we still have a lot of room for improvement for a number of countries in Southeast Asia, both on the contractual base and on our own parliamentary relations. Last week I was happy to host a delegation from the Indonesian Parliament for the first time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This was also one of the first times they visited Estonia. I think that such contacts, such developments in relations, will certainly continue to be on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We will certainly keep in mind that, for example, our new, soon-to-be-appointed non-residency ambassador in the countries of Southeast Asia will also take into account the issues you have raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U16	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is very convincing. Those who did not know before that the impact of Asia on the world of the future was so great will, of course, be fully convinced after reading the report. However, as a prerequisite for Estonia to become a part of the so-called Asian uprising, the knowledge of languages and culture is experienced people. How do you assess, Mr Mihkelson, whether there is more willingness to contribute to the success of this strategy in the field of education in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U18	Thank you, good Urve! Indeed, this is a very important issue. If you look at the report and the chapters on content, education and research cooperation, as well as our internal activities, is a pretty big part of it. Whether we are talking about entrepreneurship, diplomacy or other relationships, it is clear that the issue of cultural knowledge, as well as language skills, is quite critical, for example, in relation to the same tourism infrastructure. In fact, we have a good example of the area of diplomatic relations, even in the case of high-level visits, it is not easy to find an interpreter in Estonia who can make simultaneous translations of Estonian and some Asian languages. But I think one very important objective for us to make this report was precisely to pay attention to what you pointed out in your question. Asia's uprising is fast, and if we want to be competitive in the world, we have to take this into account. Therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, opportunities and resources need to be found to provide more general education schools offering the opportunity to study Asian languages. I guess one such school is, if I'm not mistaken, in your town in Kuressaare, but their number should definitely increase in the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U19	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It is already welcome that Estonia is trying to formulate in the form of a Commission what interests Estonia has in so far-distant and so prosperous countries. You said that next year we will have to develop a programme, a plan, how these interests and this strategy could be developed in practical terms. Here comes one half of my question: how long is it necessary and when can this strategy be expected? The other side is linked to European Union policy, as the European Union also has such strategies for larger regions. Does the European Union also have a strategy and a specific programme for this region?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U21	Thank you. Very good questions. The first question I can quickly answer is that there is currently an Asian programme in the government, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in the coordination circle. The Minister has said that his goal is to take it to the government before Midsummer Day, but if not by then, it will certainly be in the autumn. This programme, which is also referred to in our report, sets such short- and longer-term objectives. I think it is very important that our action towards Asia should not remain general, but focus on very specific projects or objectives. As far as the European Union is concerned, there is no doubt that in the countries of the European Union, the focus on Asia is different, the history is different. We are perhaps addressing this issue for the first time at all. As I mentioned, a number of other European countries have already done their homework, and I think that this, too, will help our diplomats and everyone else at European level, for example, involved in negotiating free trade agreements, to develop a more coherent policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U22	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I find it very nice that Estonia charts its opportunities and interests with different countries and regions. I understand that Asia is the first swallow, but at the same time we all know that there are other continents and other countries. Are there plans to map the interests and opportunities of other regions, because the world is not limited to Asia alone? I think it would be easier to understand our relations with other countries in the same way if they were mapped out. One could start by looking around, for example, towards our neighbours, Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U24	Thank you. That's a good question. I honestly admit that the Committee on Foreign Affairs still does not have the opportunity or the ability to do the whole world. I think that Estonia does not have that either. Let us be honest, when we look at the world map, all the other important areas of growth, whether we are talking about Brazil, for example, the Republic of South Africa, another country or region in the world, are far away from us. Well, we'll have to make our choices. I think that such a general public interest is precisely in the direction of Asia, on the one hand, of course, because of how this region opens up, but on the other hand, on the basis of the examples already available, we have also been pressured to look a little more closely at how we can make better use of our resources there. But surely, every day in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there are all important issues, important issues, including those relating to foreign economic policy. The countries that I have mentioned and which we have paid less attention to, such as Brazil in Latin America and some other countries, or the Republic of South Africa or the other countries of the Pacific, are constantly on the table of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U25	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U26	Thank you very much. It is clear that Estonia is small and it is relatively difficult for us to undertake such global innovations. How far-sighted do you think this is our unique experience, i.e. right here next to our tribal brothers, Finland, who have made openings in this direction, and thanks to this, I also believe that Estonia, expressing the languages of the country, has more effectively got its foot in the door? You can make sure you take a step and a half instead of one step.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U27	Very good. Thank you, Raivo, for this question. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Japan and South Korea for example in November. It is quite clear that it looks at us, as I emphasised, as part of Europe, and perhaps even more importantly, as part of Northern Europe, which is quite well known and well known for its successful and advanced societies. Therefore, whether we are talking, for example, about cooperation in the field of tourism or some major investment projects, apart from our opportunities and interests, we must also bear in mind the wider regional Asia-oriented cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic States. Surely, above all, our Nordic neighbours are quick to share with us the experiences they have gained when they act in the Asian direction. I believe that, in some ways, we have a good opportunity to learn from them again from the mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U28	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am pleased that we are thinking today about the opportunities for the future and that we have focused our eyes on Asia. I also have a question about Finland. The Asian market is large enough and market entry is quite expensive. Has the opportunities for cooperation with Finland and Sweden already been discussed here, and what are the plans in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U30	Thank you. I guess in this big life, we're all competitors. Of course, in today's highly competitive world, countries have a great deal to do in business and very often also have to cope with their own forces. But I think that a good foreign minister, Urmas Paet, can bring his experience to, for example, a joint visit to Indonesia, where he was with his colleague Alexander Stubb and business delegation. This is one way to better introduce yourself together in some markets. There are certainly other models of international cooperation. But once again, I think this report provides the basis for more attention to specific and sectoral issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U31	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, you have quite a number of key problems identified in the Education and Science Chapter. One very painful issue, both in attracting foreign students and staying here and in the investment climate, is our citizenship and migration policy. At the same time, we have this very sensitive issue in society. Is the Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared to take the next step as concrete proposals to make it understood that, in certain cases, for young people who are highly qualified or newly educated, citizenship and migration policies should differ significantly from the current one?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U33	Thank you, Mailis! That's a good question. As I mentioned in my speech, we really need to look to the future and see what developments in the world are and what the role of Estonia in international division of labour and international competition could or could be. This is not really just an Estonian question. I think that this is a whole and wider issue for the European Union of how well we are able to compete precisely in obtaining a highly qualified workforce in our region or in our own country. This is certainly one of the issues that perhaps requires a slightly wider political debate. Let us be honest, we also heard at the Asian Forum from quite a number of performers, especially from higher education institutions, but also from business representatives, as we know, for example, Skype has been exposed to it, how easy or difficult it is to get a workforce from, for example, India or another country. So it's a very topical question. I think we should approach this a little more politically in the form of a new debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U34	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U35	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Chairman of the Commission for his report and this report. My question concerns the level of bilateral relations. Both economic and political relations require mutual interest and benefits, but at the same time we are seeing quite a lot of movements, forces and initiatives in Europe that seek to restrict access to our market from third countries, including China. Let us be honest, in Estonia, it caused a lot of controversy when we ordered railway locomotives from China. They asked why we have our own industries and the European market here. How do you feel about these relations being transparent and bilateral, and are we prepared to open up our own market in addition to selling there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U36	Thank you. This is a very good, relevant and timely issue. This week, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu issued its recommendations on the European Union's corresponding document, where it is actually proposed to restrict the possibility of participating in public procurement to third countries, mainly Asian countries. Estonia's position is very clear and unambiguous: we should not be relying here on protectionism; the open market works much better at international, global level. This has been the key to our success in recent years or in the last few decades. I believe that the position with which Estonia participates in this debate at European level is quite clearly and unambiguously shared by political parties in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. At least in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there was very consensual support for the actions of our government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U37	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U38	Thank you very much. Thank you to the rapporteur for the report. It was interesting to listen, even more interesting to read. I actually have a pretty simple question. What task did the rapporteur set up as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs when the Asian report was being drafted? In scientific language, what was the hypothesis or the question to which the answer was sought?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U39	Thank you, good Marianne! I think you'll find the answer in this moment. One very important objective of this report was indeed to raise awareness, firstly, of the changes taking place in Asia and in the world at large, and, secondly, of the opportunities that these changes could offer us in the world. I believe that with today's sitting, and with subsequent presentations, we will be considerably wiser as to what are the priority areas in which more political attention will continue to be focused. As I said, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will not stop working towards Asia on this. We will certainly monitor how the recommendations are implemented. All the proposals are clearly indicative, but I believe that this issue will continue to be on the agenda of both this hall and the other halls.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U40	Dear Marko Mihkelson! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I would like to say thank you very much for bringing such an important subject to this Chamber with your committee. In my opinion, this is the first treatment of such a report in the Riigikogu. I believe that this will set a good example for the other committees. Thank you. Let's keep going. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paeti!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would very clearly like to congratulate the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu and, in particular, Marko Mihkelson and his immediate assistants for their initiative to address our relations with Asia and their future in a deeper way. I hope very much, in itself, that this will not be the last to go in depth on one or the other foreign policy issue. The importance of the changes taking place in Asia has become obvious over the last decade, as has the growing impact that is taking place in Asia on other continents. Estonia's objectives in its foreign policy towards Asia are largely the same as those of the rest of the world. We are asking for communication with Asian countries to enhance Estonia's security and economic well-being, to contribute to the spread of democracy and human rights, to the promotion of the interests of our citizens and companies, and to the growth of Estonia's influence and good reputation in the world. I said in the winter foreign policy debate in the Riigikogu that Estonia must grow in the world as well as in Europe and also in the world with Europe. Asian economic growth and global attention to the whole region are also reflected in Estonian foreign policy. Asia is a growing opportunity to strengthen our exports, which we need to use, but it should not come at the expense of the current export markets. Unlike Europe, Asia does not exist as a single whole in a social, economic, social, cultural or religious sense. In Asia, in addition to South and East Asia, the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also covers sub-regions in Central and Western Asia. These factors must also be taken into account when planning foreign economic policy activities. This must also be borne in mind when planning Estonia's representation in Asian countries. We are only at the beginning of our journey with Asia, but the dynamics of recent years are reflected both by our increased representation in the Asia-Pacific region and by the diversification of our ties. The rapid development of Asia is a challenge for developed countries, especially the US and the European Union, which have so far dominated world affairs. To this end, the European Union has developed strategic partnerships and dialogues with leading Asian countries, China, India, Japan, Indonesia and South Korea, as well as with Russia, which is part of Asia. Since 1996, a regular dialogue between the European Union and the Asian countries will take place within the framework of the Asia Summit, as well as a separate EU-ASEAN dialogue. Estonia's aim is to make the most of this in order to achieve our foreign policy and economic goals and to implement the European Union's Asian policy. We have raised issues such as e-state development, combating cybercrime and Internet freedom, where we are seeking more cooperation from Asian countries with European countries. I would also like to stop briefly in the area of security. Estonia, as well as our NATO and European Union partners, is in the interests of Asia's peaceful and conflict-free development. However, in Asia, not only the economic but also the military capacity of countries is now growing; there are several territorial disputes and conflicts. The international situation is particularly strained by North Korea and Iran's efforts to achieve nuclear status. The escalation of tensions between important countries can radically change these positive prospects for economic development in the region, which is the starting point for our further discussion. At the same time, we are confident that conflicts can be resolved through cooperation between countries in the region and the international community. A better representation of the most important Asian countries at the level of the UN Security Council would certainly contribute to this, where Estonia supports the efforts of India and Japan to become permanent members of the Security Council. The following is an overview of the latest developments in bilateral relations with Asian countries. Both bilateral and multilateral cooperation will continue and develop with China. The meeting of the Prime Minister of Estonia and China was important at the end of April in Warsaw. This meeting was part of a wider forum of Chinese and Central and Eastern European countries, which shows China's growing interest in our region and its desire to find investment opportunities and to strengthen economic relations. This autumn the meeting of the Joint Committee on Estonian-China Economics is planned in Tallinn, where both investments and the strengthening of transport and tourism relations will be discussed. The participation of Shanghai Expo in 2010 and the opening of the timed Consulate General helped to increase Estonia's visibility as an economic partner. Last year, we opened the Honorary Consulate in Hong Kong, whose activities, as well as those of the Shanghai Consulate General, who has reached full employment last year, are looking for help in promoting cross-border business connections and support for Estonian citizens in the region. Relations with India are more active than ever. Last year three Indian ministers visited Estonia. The implementation of Estonia's e-governance experience is a mutual interest. The India monitoring project of the Estonian Development Fund in turn charts economic and business relations and opportunities for the future more widely. In order to support existing activities, contribute to the creation of business links, ensure consular services on the ground and promote educational and cultural contacts, the government decided to establish an Estonian embassy in New Delhi, which will start operations at the end of this year. We are also increasingly focusing on improving communication with the countries of Southeast Asia. The region is important both for future economic and security interests. This year, we will appoint an ambassador to the countries of Southeast Asia, to Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and to Singapore, residing in Tallinn. At the beginning of the year, I was on a joint visit to Indonesia with Alexander Stubb, Finnish Minister of Euro Affairs and Foreign Trade, and a joint business delegation between Estonia and Finland. We will continue to consider such regional business promotion work important in Asia, together with Estonia's closest economic partners. In order to improve representation in Central Asia, we have created an Estonian embassy in Astana, from which we represent Estonia both in Kazakhstan and in the countries of the region in Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. Astana can support the development of transit and economic relations between the countries of Europe and South and East Asia. With the support of existing representations, we will further develop relations with Japan and South Korea, not only bilaterally, but also, for example, within the OECD, whose members are known to be united by conviction of the importance of a market economy and a transparent state. Speaking about the development of Estonia's foreign economic policy towards Asia, it is important to remember that part of this, the promotion of trade policy, falls within the common competence of the European Union and the promotion of the common interests of the Member States is the Commission of the European Union. Estonia has always been a supporter of as liberal and as ambitious trade agreements as possible in the European Union's discussions, and this is also the line we maintain in our relations with Asian countries. The European Union has supported the accession of Asian countries to the WTO and their desire to conclude free trade agreements. For example, relations between the European Union and China are based on the 1985 Cooperation and Trade Agreement. In 2008, the European Union launched a high-level economic and trade dialogue with China. The free trade agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Korea was concluded in 2010. Negotiations on agreements of the same magnitude are ongoing with Malaysia, India and Singapore. The preparations for the free trade agreement negotiations are also under way with Vietnam and Japan. To date, China has become the second most important economic partner for the European Union after the US. With trade of EUR 656 million, China became the 11th most important trading partner for Estonia in 2011. Estonia's trade balance with China is the so-called European average of 1/3 exports and 2/3 imports. Last year China accounted for 1.6% of Estonian exports and 3.6% of imports. The turnover of trade increased by 67% compared to 2010, and last year Estonia's imports from China also increased significantly. The share of other Asian countries as Estonia's export market has so far been modest. Last year exports to Asian countries other than China accounted for less than 1% of total exports. At the same time, exports to Asia show a clear upward trend, albeit from a very low base. Thus, the possibilities for improvement continue and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is active in supporting the market access of Estonian entrepreneurs through business diplomacy. Hopefully, the Asian Economic Relations Programme, which is being drafted by the government, will help to find new measures to expand export possibilities to Asian countries. However, public activity cannot replace the efforts of operators but only contribute to them. The expansion of the Asian market requires the company to be thoroughly involved in preparatory work, knowledge of local culture and practices, as demonstrated by Liviko's experience of entering the Japanese market mentioned in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. By the way, recent reports say that Liviko has also reached China. At the same time, foreign representation plays a greater role in supporting entrepreneurs in Asian countries, which highly appreciate the official support of the state for their business plans than in other regions. This is also the reason why the employees of the Enterprise Estonia also operate in our foreign representations at the Shanghai Consulate General and Tokyo embassy. Enabling this use of foreign representation facilities is our more general principle, which we also apply in Moscow, St Petersburg and Kiev, for example. The rapid development of Asian markets creates new opportunities in different business areas, where huge volumes of goods are not always required, but all Estonian companies are small given the scale of these markets. The experience of small countries shows that it is also possible to contribute to the niche area and to a specific smaller area. The development of economic relations is, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs report states, wider than trade-related. Asian tourists and students are also important for the Estonian economy. The government has tried to contribute to the creation of transport links and the conclusion of air services agreements with Asian countries. Estonian Air and Tallinn Airport hope to start negotiations with Singapore, Qatar and Oman in the near future, as well as talks with the Kazakh airline. The potential of Estonian ports and airports for developing traffic towards Asia exists. The efforts made by universities to find Asian foreign students and the Asian study module launched in the joint work of several universities deserve recognition, which hopefully will bring both the education sector and the public and the private sector more people who will know Asia well in the future. Estonia has launched teaching the Estonian language at the University of Foreign Studies in Beijing since autumn 2010. In the field of education, we are preparing for the conclusion of an agreement on mutual recognition of Estonian and Chinese diplomas and we hope to reach the final stage in this regard soon. For the first time in Estonia (Tartu), 18th of August this year. Asian-European Foundation (ASEF) University, bringing together 50 young people from Asia. Together with universities, consideration should also be given to how to enable Estonian students to study in Asia. As one of the problems with bringing students to Estonia is obtaining long-term visas and residence permits, we have tried to expand the consular services in the Asia-Pacific region, by creating long-term visas and residence permits in Shanghai, Astana and Sydney. Let's start this operation in New Delhi. Adding people-to-people contacts is also one way of promoting the circulation of values that are important to us of the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights in Asian countries. There has recently been much talk about the success of the authoritarian model of state capitalism, which is different from Western democracy and the concept of human rights. However, the experience of Asian development shows that, as economic prosperity grows and a strong middle class develops, citizens in these countries also have a desire to enjoy universal freedoms and rights. Estonia supports the European Union's joint efforts to promote democracy and human rights in Asia. There have been recent positive developments in this area. For example, Myanmar has moved towards democracy, promising more free elections and releasing the leader of the opposition. This has made it possible to move forward in the process of diplomatic relations between Estonia and Myanmar. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also takes seriously the development of public diplomacy towards Asia. Our focus is on introducing Estonia to an efficient IT sector as a country, as an e-state and as a successful state in the area of cyber security and Internet freedom. However, if circumstances coincide, one person can do more than all the public authorities put together to introduce his or her country. Thus Kaido Haökelson's sporting achievements in Japan have contributed both to the introduction of the Estonian state and have certainly contributed to the entry of Estonian companies into the market. The series of Estonian cultural events organised last year by the Japanese-Estonian Friendship Association and with the support of the Estonian state also contributed to the demonstration of Estonia in Japan. When the new house of the Estonian Embassy is completed in Beijing, it is also possible to bring together other representatives of Estonia, both in the field of promoting entrepreneurship and in the field of public diplomacy and culture. Spreading Estonia's reputation and reputation in multi-billion-dollar Asia is, of course, a job that never ends. Looking at the recommendations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that Estonia's interests and opportunities in Asia until 2025, Estonia's interest is to ensure that the impact of the global revolution towards Asia on Estonia's security is minimised and valuable alliances with the US continue. Estonia's economic interests are increasingly linked to Asian entrepreneurship and development, which is also reflected in the emerging government's Asian economic relations programme. I have already mentioned what we have done in the area of representation: the opening of the Shanghai Consulate General, the Astana Embassy and the Sydney Consulate General, the establishment of an embassy in New Delhi, the appointment of a non-resident ambassador to Southeast Asia and the extension of the network of honorary consuls. On the government side, there have been annual visits by the Prime Minister as well as visits by the Foreign Minister to Asian countries. In the interest of Estonian entrepreneurs, we have always included business delegations on our visits, if possible. The opening of new offices in Asia in the coming ten years will certainly be possible, but this will depend on concrete developments in foreign policy, business development and consular activities. We have also actively used honorary consuls in Asia to promote Estonian interests and protect the interests of our citizens: China (Hong Kong and Macau), India (New Delhi, Mumbai), Japan (Osaka), the Philippines (Manila, Olongapo), the Republic of Korea (Soul), Malaysia (Kula Lumpur), Thailand (Bangkok, Phuket), Singapore and Sri Lanka (Colombo). We have achieved visa-free travel for our citizens to the following Asian countries and regions: Brunei, Philippines, Hong Kong, Macao, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia and Singapore. Estonia continues to seek to expand the circle of countries to which our citizens would be exempt from visa, at the moment we have proposed this and we will continue to negotiate with, for example, the United Arab Emirates, India, Indonesia, Oman, Thailand and Vietnam. Through visa representation agreements, we use Hungarian aid for issuing Estonian visas in Pakistan, India and Singapore; Finnish aid for the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand; German aid for Bangladesh and Sri Lanka; French aid for Vietnam and Lebanon; Austrian aid for Kuwait and Saudi Arabia; Polish aid for North Korea and Swiss aid for Palestinian government. Of course, we will also continue to improve the training and preparation of diplomats for Asia. That's how diplomats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been taught Chinese. For economic diplomats, the use of consulting firms is already part of the work. In economic matters, we are also dealing with the conclusion of contractual relations, in particular agreements on the prevention of double taxation and the protection of investments with Asian countries. We are based on the fact that we conclude agreements primarily on the basis of practical needs. From the countries covered by the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Estonia has concluded a double taxation agreement with Singapore and the Republic of Korea, as well as with the People's Republic of China. A double taxation agreement has been signed with India but has not yet been enforced. Negotiations are nearing completion with Thailand, negotiations are continuing with Vietnam, and talks with Indonesia are about to begin. Investment protection agreements are in force with China and Vietnam. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, however, investment protection agreements are the responsibility of the European Union. However, it may continue to be necessary to conclude bilateral agreements if the progress of the European Union as a whole is too slow for a particular country. As has already been pointed out, the report proposes the definition of Asia, which, above all, covers East and South Asia as our area of interest. However, rapid economic growth is also taking place in the Gulf countries, for example. Estonia has clear interests, the development of which we have also tried to support, in Central Asia. In this regard, it is important to note, as one region and as a question, the guarantee of the peaceful and lasting development of Afghanistan, to which Estonia has contributed a great deal together with its allies. Afghanistan's peaceful development is certainly linked to the peaceful development of the wider Asian region and the exploitation of economic opportunities. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs cooperates with all interested authorities and institutions, including EAS. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has contributed to developing development plans for other ministries, including the government's Asian Economic Relations Programme. I would like to highlight the successful cooperation with EAS in Shanghai and Tokyo representations. But there is always room for closer cooperation and we will continue to consider all proposals for further cooperation between authorities. Of course, the grip of the state's activities towards Asia depends on the resources allocated to it. The size of Estonia's foreign policy interests is not constant, i.e. if our interests are to grow or need further protection somewhere, this does not necessarily mean that this need will automatically decrease elsewhere. So you can't always do more things by just redeploying resources. Finally, thanks once again to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a good initiative. I think there is too little appreciation for the good things in this Chamber. It'll be different this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U42	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. You also have a lot of questions. Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, For my part, thank you very much for this good review. You stressed in your report that we have very close cooperation with the Nordic region. At the same time, we also have cooperation with Latvia and Lithuania. Now, if you think about the Asia Strategy, can we not work more together with Latvia and Lithuania both in the development and implementation of the Asia Strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U44	Thank you. Surely this side cannot be ruled out. So far, we have just begun quite effective cooperation with Finland in foreign trade policy. Alexander Stubb and I have agreed that what we did in Indonesia at the beginning of the year will continue in other countries of the world, including Asian countries, i.e. the joint delegations of Estonian-Finnish entrepreneurs supported by governments and the people of governments in these delegations. Looking at Estonia's view, the argument supporting this approach is certainly that Finland already has long experience on the ground in many of these countries, including entrepreneurs. In many countries where Estonia does not have a diplomatic representation, Finland has it. This will actually bring us this added value. On the external side, there is little added value in cooperation with Latvia and Lithuania. If you look at Latvia and Lithuania's network of foreign representations, it is mostly similar to Estonia, perhaps even more modest in some places, but in some places it is the other way around. In fact, we have a similar 'business presence' experience. But there are certainly other areas of assistance for citizens, consular services as well as foreign policy aspects, where we have been working with Latvia and Lithuania so far. In these areas, I consider this also possible in the future towards Asia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U45	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! The fact that the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working towards increasing the number of Asian countries to which Estonian citizens can travel without a visa is extremely important and important. But one aspect that should probably also be taken into account is that several Asian countries treat Estonian citizens unequally, for example, compared to the citizens of the European Union north and west of us. This is the same example of Thailand: if the citizens of the countries of the European Union north and west of us are visa-free in Thailand, then we will still get the visa at the border and have to pay for it. What can the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to put an end to unequal treatment of European Union citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U47	Yes, from our perspective, this is certainly unequal treatment. At the same time, I have repeatedly spoken to the previous and present Minister of Foreign Affairs of Thailand on this issue. Work is ongoing to ensure that Estonian citizens are also exempt from the visa requirement by a unilateral decision of Thailand. But we also need to understand that this decision is purely in the hands of Thailand. Traditionally, talks start with other countries where we apply for visa-free travel for Estonian citizens, since this particular country also asks its citizens for visa-free travel to Estonia. As we all know, Estonia cannot grant such an authorisation because, after joining the Schengen visa area, visa liberalisation for one country or another is a shared competence of the Schengen States. So if the other side insists on rigid parity, we can't do it. In the region of Asia, there are also countries that are not affected by Taid, who say that yes, they once granted a unilateral visa waiver to citizens of the European Union at the time, that was before Estonia joined the European Union in 2004, and at that time they were told that soon-to-be the European Union would introduce a visa waiver in return for the citizens of their country as well. Now it's been more than ten years, and they say nothing's happened. Maybe they're disappointed. For this reason, they are not yet in a hurry to give EU countries a unilateral visa waiver. There are cases like this. This is where the country must approach by country, with different national attitudes. As far as Thailand is concerned, they currently have three group countries: there are countries whose citizens have access to it completely visa-free, those whose citizens can get a visa from the border, and those who have to apply for a visa from a foreign diplomatic mission. Estonia is currently in the middle group, just as most of the other countries that joined the European Union after 2004. So this individual approach to applying for visa-free travel with specific Asian countries is. The maximum we can offer against us is visa waiver for diplomatic passports, because it remains a Member State's competence, but overall visa-free access to the countries of the European Union or Schengen area cannot be granted by one Member State.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U48	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U49	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Your colleague, U.S. Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton, has formulated U.S. foreign policy priorities in such a way that, when the past century was the century of North Atlantic cooperation, the 21st century is the Pacific century for the United States. You have certainly had the opportunity to examine the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs thoroughly. On page 40, the recommendations of the study are set out. One of them sounds like it makes sense for Estonia to be aware of the interests of the US in Asia and, if not more, at least to avoid directly conflicting with US interests. How would you put forward what could be more than US interests in Asia not to conflict with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U50	At first glance, I do not see any such moment where we should go against the interests of the United States in Asia at all or where this point of impact should be. We can certainly have a very theoretical and philosophical debate on this, but I do not think it is practical right now and here. So I do not really see the place where the United States' greater attention to developments in the Asia-Pacific region should be in conflict with our interests as of today or even in the near future. Of course, as far as security, for example, is concerned, as I have already mentioned in my report, our interest remains that the United States should continue to contribute to a transatlantic relationship, to European security, so that greater attention, for example, in the area of security in the Asia-Pacific region, is not reduced in Europe. Similarly, in developing trade relations and economic relations, we would like to see closer trade relations between the US and China and other countries in the region not significantly reduce the purely natural attention and cooperation between Europe and America. In itself, such more general, theoretical risks may be present. However, communication with the current US leadership has convinced me that Europe-United States relations with the Asia-Pacific region, no matter whether it is security, it is an economy or some other area, it is essentially not damaging.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U51	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U52	Thanks! Good Urmas! You may still agree that the true foundation of any Asian activity is the policy of Asian cultures, but that means, above all, the knowledge of languages at grassroots level. Fortunately, there are people and institutions in Estonia that can be absorbed in this sense. On the basis of Tallinn University's department of Middle East and Asian cultural history, for example, an effective research centre could be established that could provide the Estonian state with full support in economics, diplomacy, policy planning towards Asia. These people have also shown their willingness to help. We have briefly mentioned this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Since the brochure presented today is helpful in its content, can you confirm that the idea of creating such a research centre could also be among the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U53	The short answer is yes. As I have already said, knowledge of the Asian environment is certainly necessary; there are not too many people in Estonia who can master these languages and cultures. Therefore, in cooperation with universities, the Ministry of Education and Research and other interested parties, considerable attention needs to be paid to this area. I think that when we start in the public service of Estonia, no matter what ministries we look at, counting on the fingers of two hands those people who know an Asian language or culture in depth, there will probably be some fingers left over. So the short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U54	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U55	Thank you. Good minister! Here we have already referred to our western and northern neighbours and their Asian policies. There is another difference: the heads of state of the Western and Northern neighbours, the King of Sweden and the President of Finland, go regularly to Asia. However, the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs made it clear that our President has not been very busy or that the video message had created furor in South Korea. Does the State Department share this concern, or do you suddenly know any particular plan? Will Estonia also have presidential visits to Asian countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U56	I'm sure that's the plan, and that's what the President has expressed. Of course, preparing a visit by the Head of State is a much longer process than preparing a visit by a minister, including a foreign minister, for example. It is clear that the President's visits to Asian countries will certainly never be of the same size as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs or any other member of government. But visits by the Head of State will certainly increase the visibility of the country in itself. When you look at the last few years, I think that our high-level visits have been very well run by the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister or some member of the government. As a general rule, as I mentioned, there have been business delegations that have received direct contacts during these meetings. But, like in all things, it will certainly be better in this regard too, it will become more systematic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U57	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It was a pleasure to hear your compliment on our Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'll give you at least two compliments. Firstly, it is very positive that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees Asia in general, sees that Asia is made up of different countries that are not one-faced, and also our interests there are certainly different. Secondly, cooperation with Finland, the whole Nordic region and joint visits to Asia is undoubtedly very positive and should continue in this direction. In the previous composition, the Committee on Economic Affairs met several times with economic operators precisely on our foreign economic policy issues. They complained to us that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not take the interests of entrepreneurs sufficiently into account. Our committee went to Expo in China and saw that no company was represented there, contrary to Finland, for example. My question is: how is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs working with our companies in Asia now? How do you meet, how do you plan a joint action?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U59	Thank you. First of all, my story, in which I acknowledged the Committee on Foreign Affairs, was no compliment, it was an objective assessment of what had been done. Secondly, with regard to taking account of the interests of businesses, we are indeed doing so, I dare say, at the most. Of course, individual cases are always found where one or the other company is not yet quite satisfied with what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can offer. But of all these concerns or reproaches, we also want to get feedback as soon as possible in order to do things even better. Expo was definitely Estonian entrepreneurs. Expo itself was such a long process, lasting several months. Our pavilion held quite a number of business and business seminars, where entrepreneurs from different sectors met with their partners. Our work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that we meet regularly, a few or three times a year, with the leaders of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the management of EAS and the leaders of the Estonian Employers' Confederation to listen to suggestions, concerns. At work level, you can say, these contacts are everyday. The input from businesses and business organisations is the main argument for which countries, for example, to start preparations for double taxation or investment protection agreements. The main input comes from companies. There have been many talks here about the preparation of business delegations, and these delegations are also drawing up, and this information is brought to us by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. So I very much hope that business organisations will also appreciate this cooperation, but as I said, everything can always be done better. There is openness to entrepreneurs and business organisations. Once again, I call for us to turn to our foreign missions in specific countries when there are questions, suggestions and ideas. For my part, our cooperation with Estonian business organisations is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U60	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U61	Thank you very much. Of course, with such activities, things will inevitably tend to shift there, except for China, as the biggest and most discernible player, etc. At the same time, the weight categories of Estonia and China are very different, and we can simply disappear in this big pot. Do you share my view that we could focus more and more on such small players as à la Vietnam, Cambodia and Malaysia, to find a more appropriate partner for us in terms of yardstick, population and so-called resources? This little breakthrough in the form of little steps maybe makes a better result.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U62	One does not rule out the other. When we talk about foreign trade, the external economy, everything ultimately depends on the interests of individual Estonian entrepreneurs. Similarly, in geographical terms, large Asian countries do not have to approach the big hurrah as a whole. There, too, it is always possible to choose a place where interest is greater, a particular region from this large country, and then to operate there more in depth. When we are talking about foreign trade, it is, of course, the same issue of volumes that will certainly make matters difficult in large markets. But there are very specific niche products with which Estonia has already proven itself in several export markets and which could also be expected to be of interest in Asian countries, both large and small. During the visit to Indonesia at the beginning of this year, we had a delegation of 10 companies, of which just over half represented companies with very specific niche production. I can say that there was a significant interest in these specific products in Indonesia. So we need to be smart, because we expect that our companies in a country of a little less than 1.3 million people could contribute to the volume, especially in the case of very large countries, this is probably not an instrument or a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U63	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'll take your word for it. According to the census, we have 1294236 permanent residents. That is why I have the question. We have roughly 1.3 million people, with 1 billion 200 million people in India alone. Tell me, please, can and in what way such closer cooperation with Asian countries affect our population?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U65	I hope it's in the right direction. As I said in my speech, our interest in foreign policy at all, including in the direction of Asian countries, is that the standard of living in Estonia should rise and that we would feel more secure in terms of security. It is clear that if the standard of living of Estonian society rises and people feel more confident, both quantity and quality, including population, should improve. If the background to the question is a possible change in immigration policy, I do not believe that this debate has yet started very seriously in Estonia. Looking back at all the trends that are in Estonian society and that are in Europe at large, the debate on immigration policy has not yet started seriously. But it should certainly be stopped, and I hope that decisions and choices should also be made as consensually as possible. After all, these doubts are not all over the last few decades that there are so few people in Estonia and that it is very easy to hit the balance point, after all, somewhere. At the same time, it is clear that the arrival of some clever people in Estonia from other parts of the world will certainly not harm us either. So it's a question of finding a balance. However, it is possible to find and settle a balance then, once again, when this issue has been seriously discussed in society, when all the wise people have expressed their opinion and hopefully there will be as much consensus as possible on this point of balance. It makes no sense to start saying right now that an immigration quota of one kind or another is the right thing to do. There are certainly considerably smarter people in Estonian society who are able to make their prudent proposals on this. So I'm expecting them in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U66	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Thank you. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Raivo Vare, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am truly pleased that, at the end of the day, Asia, as a new centre for economic growth, is being discussed here, at the highest level of the country. I would like to compliment at the outset: the report presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs very well summarised most of the important issues in this regard. Since time is very limited, I intend to talk about only a few aspects, particularly the attractiveness of the Asian economic environment and some of the conclusions arising from the monitoring of Estonia-India by the Development Fund, which was one of the inputs of the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, among others. In my presentation, I will use some slides from Siim Sikut, a former good colleague and from the Development Fund, who led in the Asian direction, as well as a drawing from the Development Fund, which has arrived in one of the reports of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. What is the basis for Asian growth? Many factors, including favourable global circumstances, have been a prerequisite for this, but fundamentalally, it has been based primarily on people. Folk population, youth, education, all of this has given the acceleration that Asia continues economically. It has attracted foreign investors, businesses, has provided the basis for export strength. There has been a gradual and relatively rapid improvement in the quality of the labour force, i.e. education, skills and knowledge. Today, Asia is a vast pool of talent. This figure compares population growth over the next decades. It is quite clear that Asia will continue to dominate. (By the way, the drawing itself comes from a joint discussion between the Development Fund and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu.) At the same time, growth is traditionally driven by the growing consumption of the middle class, and it is from Asia that the main increase is coming. Look at the figure: if the middle class is currently marked as dark green, in 2030 it will be marked by a blue circle. It is quite obvious that the expected growth in the middle class in Europe is relatively minimal, but in the Asia-Pacific region, the middle class is growing explosively. Therefore, in Europe as a whole, there are certain boundaries of organic growth that we are not yet, unfortunately, mentally prepared to talk about, but in Asia, this growth is not yet a matter of concern for a long time. In addition, there are quite a few consumers at the bottom of the pyramid, which is usually out of attention. The Development Fund has appeared and there is also a report on 'Markets and innovation at the bottom of the pyramid of income' on the web. This is an overview that I suggest you look at when there is more interest in this subject. Today, simply because of the lack of time, it is not possible to dwell on it. All the more so, in addition to this brochure, there are still a lot of fututuba.ee materials in the blog. There are many interesting ideas, ideas and also figures about this huge market potential, the northern segment of the pyramid, which is generally not discussed at all. But the fact remains: the global focus of economic growth is already shifting to Asia and continues to shift faster and faster. This slide has Asia marked with red and European grey. This shift has been much predicted, but in the face of a global crisis, this movement has taken place much faster than previously expected. We must now decide whether or not we want to be a part of this growth. This, in my opinion, is essentially related to the fundamental task of the Estonian economy. If our target markets so far are rich, but potential growth is slow, competition is intense and it is difficult to rise in value chains, going to new markets and moving there would also help overcome many of the causes of haunted organic growth. However, we need, as has been said in the past, a long-term rapid economic growth rate in order to "reach and pass by' in social prosperity. That is clear, and I think we all agree on that. Where there is economic growth, there are also the majors of world trade. By the way, studies have shown that the growth rate of foreign trade has been steadily above the GDP growth rate 2.5 times on average over the last half-century. After all, we do, or at least we could want some part of this growth. Isn't that right? Of course, the development of new markets will be very determined by the fact that there will be rapid urbanisation in Asia and that most of the megapolises and major cities that will emerge from 2025 will be located in Asia, or rather, they will already be located there and will grow at an insane rate. Urbanisation means completely clear consumption patterns, very rapid growth in consumption, particularly in very specific areas. That's the thing that should explain a little bit about how things are gonna work out. You have a slide for this in the replicated materials and in the computer. Not only is Asia growing in importance on the market, but Asia is also of greater importance as a leader in innovation and global business, as Asia's role in development and research is growing more and more. While it has traditionally been accepted that this area is very strong in Japan, where a tenth of the world's patents come from, despite a significantly lower ratio of R &amp; D personnel or, for example, in South Korea, China is now taking the lead. There's a very specific program designed for this. As a whole, the growth rate of Asian development and research by 2020, which is already an average of 38% in this decade, is at best 13% in Europe. At the moment, we do not even know how the crisis will take effect in the future, this forecast was drawn up at the beginning of the decade when the crisis had not yet worked. Asia is carefully engaged in national support policies to take on the role of developer in a wide range of future areas, such as green transport, new energy, nanomaterials, organic electronics, biopharmaceuticals, industrial biotech. For example, in the last five-year plan, China has declared its priorities in many of the so-called very advanced areas, such as solar technology and wind technology (they are not only the largest manufacturers of equipment, but also the largest installers in the world), of course in telecommunications and information technologies, as well as in the automotive industry, particularly in areas related to the electric car industry. As a next step, the world factory will become an increasingly global business leader, as well as an external investor and a sought partner for investment, because there is just so much money going there. Asian companies are increasingly and more in charge of value chains themselves, not in the way that has happened so far, and they are taking them from the Western countries. Subcontracting opportunities are moving more and more to Asia anyway, but the whole value chain is moving more and more to new leaders. The point in the context of today's debate is how to make yourself useful to Asian export companies and get into their business chains in a useful way. In this context, we have talked mainly about companies in Western Europe. In any case, the Asian century is foretold. Asia is expected to emerge even in the blackest, or risky, scenario. The left-hand so-called pie slide shows the most positive scenario of the Asian century: by 2050 more than half of the world's economy will be there. The second option is the so-called negative scenario, where the order of magnitude is nearly 20% lower, but nevertheless this share has increased significantly compared to the current one. So the rate of growth there is very fast for a long time. Of course, when it comes to market opportunities, it must be said that this approach and the distribution based on trends and levels of development have been simplified to some extent. But perhaps you would point out that the markets developed in these four categories, the major emerging markets, the emerging markets and the underdeveloped markets are clearly different approaches. While in the first category there are niche opportunities in a more complex business, in the second category there is a question of size (there was also a question of size and focus), which means that there must be a focus on specific regions and therefore it is still possible to scale up the volume sharply. It has been said that an Estonian technology company is now coming to a stage (they probably have not yet arrived, in any case they have not announced it) that they will be able to implement a flagship project in a small Chinese province. It's a really small province with only 69 million inhabitants. There is hardly any country in Europe where such a project could be carried out. We're talking about a lead project! So there are huge scale opportunities, but often regionally, not across the country. The markets for the next wave have the potential to gain an early entry advantage. Where to look at the market, it depends on the company's activity, ambition, capital, ability. There are infinite possibilities. But we've just been a long way from this area, and we're a little worried about it. Some specific features have been identified here. I wouldn't stop at them very long, but one thing I do bring out, namely patience. We are used to this time scale and scale, which is traditional in our cultural space and business space, that all things go relatively quickly and in some ways easily. None of this works too fast or as fast as I'd like, but, let's just say, in a relatively inclusive period of time. In Asia, this generally does not apply in principle and must be understood from the outset. Of course, everything starts with a plane ticket, perhaps a broader look. Now some of the findings of the surveillance of Estonia-India as an input to the Asian strategy, which may be extrapolated in addition to India in a wider sense. In particular, this report can be read either in printed form or at the web address given on this slide. I must say immediately that this report was prepared in very good cooperation with the Indian embassy and with the initiative of his esteemed leader. So there's been a clear interest there, too. This report was presented at the recent Asian Forum of the Development Fund, which has already been discussed here. Why India? In the case of India, I start with the fact that it is a very fast growing market, there is a rapid rise in the standard of living and an increase in the middle class. While some 15% of the population is now considered to belong to the middle class or to its border countries in comparison with purchasing parity, in ten years' time, the order of magnitude will be over 40%. You understand we're talking about Indian figures. I'm talking as a percentage not to scare you with those hundreds of millions. This is an enormous potential for consumption. Of course, the issue is also that Indian companies are among the new leaders of global business. Many of them have, as we know, risen very quickly. After 2020, India is one of the world's main sources of direct investment. There is talk of foreign capital and partners in their place. In addition, India has undoubtedly a very powerful potential pool of labour and talent that could be used wisely. Certainly, India is becoming a research and development centre in the world, perhaps less talked about. The report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs sets out a schedule that you can look at, where nearly 800 R &amp; D centres, developed at a cutting-edge level in India, are concentrated in certain clusters throughout India's territory. So it would make perfect sense to try to be a part of all this. Of course, this is not an easy market to go to. The other half concerns India's own interest. India, like any other major Asian country, is still looking at the region as a whole. Here's the gate question. Can we be a gateway to our region, which is a region of northern Europe, which certainly includes Russia, not only around Scandinavia and the Baltic Sea, but also Russia? The technology orientation, which is very strong in India and which is politically supported, is why the exchange of knowledge between Estonia and India could also come into play very strongly. There's been so much talk about it that I don't want to repeat it. There is no point in repeating what has already been said about tourism. Now some of the business opportunities found in the trends based on the example of India. These are listed on this slide. The biggest business, of course, concerns the construction of infrastructure and the products and services that fall within this area, such as interconnection networks, urban environments, etc. These options certainly include issues arising from environmental concerns and environmental technologies, and a large market for health and well-being services, which is just beginning to emerge. It does not really exist yet, but some countries are developing it very much in this region. Everyone knows the so-called health tourism example from Thailand. Singapore has also chosen this direction very clearly for the whole region. This is a new opportunity. By the way, whenever such markets are spoken of, I have been drawn to my attention by a widespread statement. That's what they say. At the Asia Forum in this conference centre, where, unfortunately, there were not many representatives of the Riigikogu, representatives of some companies who are already busy working there participated and performed in the health segment and larger markets. But, of course, there are opportunities for a technological revolution there. The example of India is that the market was conquered by mobile phones and the computer age was simply jumped, so-called mobile phones went over the Internet. We're the tough guys in the mobile, and some of our companies are already working in Asia. Of course, on the other hand, it is very difficult to confirm in the markets there, because there are always opportunities in the same way, but there are also certain obstacles. What can governments do as a pioneer? What are the broader lessons from this Indian monitoring in this sense? Going to the Asian market requires much more continuous professional analysis, a vision for the future, joint efforts to develop business models, market analysis, logistical business organisation and the establishment of the right relationships, opening doors at the level of power. In Asian culture, the role of the country is much more appreciated, and unlike the interpretation we have in common. All of this requires much more public support for business than in Europe. This is the place of cooperation with the Nordic countries, one of which was mentioned in the Finnish-Estonian joint visit to Indonesia. This approach is very welcome. How else can the state open up markets? A continuous programme of repeated visits by state top representatives is important, and apart from supporting export-import activities, special attention must be paid to attracting investment to us. That is one thing I want to emphasise. Secondly, I very much want to support the creation of a systematic, forward-looking analysis and research centre. One of these projects already sounded like it was meant to deal with the'soft side'. At the same time, as far as I know, the Faculty of Economics of the University of Tartu has also applied for the creation of a research centre for emerging markets, which would be more concentrated on economic issues. These things should definitely be supported. The repetition of state visits and invitations is very important. Action must not end with a one-off event, because it will take a long time to succeed in Asia, as we have talked about. The embodiment of policies is very important. All interests are, in fact, interlinked and we need to coordinate them somehow. I do not want to be critical, but I am afraid that the proposal made in the report is even a little short, because there is a need to overcome the institutional barriers and coordinate all actions based on the common objective, and there is also a need to attract direct investment here. In my opinion, this issue is somewhat out of the general focus of the coordination proposal at the moment. I have a proposal that, however, it is worth considering not only the strategic bureau level, perhaps it would be good if foreign economic policy were to be dealt with at the level of a specific member of government, in which case, of course, it should not only deal with Asia. The current situation of the Asian economic environment, or at all the logic of Asian development and its starting points, require much stronger economic representation. This includes economic diplomats, which requires a certain degree of finalisation of foreign representation activities in this field. Why not try to exploit the capacity of existing projects and Asia's action programmes, or 'Judotechnics', to use the energy of others? It seems very rational to me to create, for example, a serious centre for the inclusion of smaller Indo-China and South East Asian countries in Singapore, as Singapore itself is developing itself as a hub of the region, as a result of a highly informed policy. They have systematically created infrastructure and all other conditions for it. We just need to jump on them. Of course, it is necessary to simplify the procedures for obtaining visas and residence permits, otherwise this will indeed become an obstacle. I'll give you an example of Skype. Their development centre here employs 13 people from third countries. These are top specialists who don't have analogs in the world, but nine of them have had to recreate the entire gauntlet in the last two years. This system just doesn't work for companies. This is clear to anyone who understands anything about the economy. That's a huge problem, something must be done about it. Some small practical suggestions. All our sales materials could be available online in some of the leading Asian languages. There is a clear need for focused activities on a targeted market or sectoral basis. Cooperation with the Nordic region should be developed where possible. This should be done, for example, in the case of tourism already, because we are one region for Asian tourists. Patience is needed. To sum up, the state can open new markets when it is clearly looking forward, the interests determine and activate them, and acts as a pioneer, rather than remaining in a position to be expected. Major victories do not come quickly, but the aim is to clarify interests and start practical projects that are patiently supported by recurrent activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U68	Thank you very much. You have questions. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U69	Thank you very much. I will be very brief and ask you in particular: did you, Mr Vare, get the answer when you read the Riigikogu report, about the opportunities and interests of Estonia in Asia until 2025?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U70	Yeah, I got the most important answer and maybe some technical answers on the technical details relating to it. Even the same issue of coordination, where I might want to take a step forward, or the Development Fund thinks this could be done, but in principle this is already a step in the right direction. In particular, I received the answer that Asia is interesting to us, that Asia is necessary for us, and that there is potential. I also received this reply that the region must be dealt with not only at the level of one company or micro-enterprises, but still in a coordinated manner, with the help of the state. That is the most important answer, because so far we have had a certain degree of debate about this approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U71	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Undoubtedly, Asia is not only interesting today, but, as you said, it will be the Asian century. As an expert, you know very well that business can be done if you know the language and know the culture. What about this area? We've heard things about language. The Minister of Foreign Affairs thought we had to take things very seriously here. But how do you see the country's actions in terms of culture and language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U73	I think there are several levels. The subject of translation was already discussed. I can confirm that with an example. I have worked with Estonian logistics and participated in several Chinese programmes. We discovered with surprise how important it was that we hired the Chinese to work with the materials and to carry out the simultaneous translation, although related to Estonia, but the Chinese. About the second time, he also acquired sufficient terminological and ideological preparation to be at a high level in his work, for which he received personal praise. Sadly, of course, it ended when he left the service. But that proves how important this language issue is. Making materials and all this isn't that easy. Secondly, I think there is a need for a general understanding of Asian countries and markets, as well as an understanding of culture, which may be somewhat easier to deal with. To this end, our potential partners in Asia also provide a lot of support through all kinds of institutions, providing learning programmes and funding for teachers. This has to be done. Perhaps the most difficult thing is to find people in public service who, in addition to language and culture, would share something from the economy. I don't want to be very brutal, but somehow there is such an unpleasant contrast to the language that perhaps it might be worth thinking more about hiring people who know Asia instead of French philologists. A sufficient number of these should be employed in the various structural links of the public service in order to have a 'critical mass'. It is not just the External Action Service that we are talking about. To my comfort to the first, China, for example, is now the world's fifth producer of wine; they make very good wines. In that sense, I don't think there's a problem here for anyone. We need to work closely on this ambitious development program to find these individuals. Finding enough people who know Asia in public service is a key issue. There was criticism here as to why some countries have been excluded from this strategy. One reason is that they were not so much to be covered. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Raul Allikivi deals with this issue. Raul is a very good specialist in certain areas where he knows exactly how things are. He knows Japan very well, and some China too, but unfortunately from India, he does not know much, because he just didn't have to. Nor does he have much knowledge of many other countries there. We're just in this situation because of our lack of resources. I think that these things could be carried out by means of a determined program and created by these experts. They don't need too many, but there's got to be a critical mass. This is necessary at the level of diplomats and other civil servants, as well as in other systems. These people should be ratted where possible, giving opportunities to others other than the External Action Service. They must be raised, sent to these countries to study, to work, if possible, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U74	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vare, thank you very much for a good and comprehensive presentation. I would like to ask you what potential you see, for example, in the Estonian food industry and agriculture in the Asian region. It is known that nutritional cultures are very different, but the world is also globalising. Do you think there's anything our food industry hasn't been able to take advantage of? The fishing industry has perhaps been the most active in this respect. I look forward to your assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U76	I'm gonna have a little trouble answering. Are there specific products that we can talk about? Fishermen have indeed found these niches, and in some areas they are already completely competitive on the market. The following should be taken into account. The Asian population is now very clear on its consumption patterns. There has been a sharp increase in the consumption of animal proteins, and this continues to grow. Milk products have also started to be consumed, which were not made at all before most of the region, except for a few countries. It's definitely a niche opportunity. But what does that mean? This means that we need to both grow and process food, and we need to take action along the whole chain towards this market. The specific foods that are preferred there, I find it a little difficult to bring out of my knowledge right now. I know that in addition to the fishermen, the milkmen have been there to touch the market. Something's been taken there a little bit, but it's all niche and small. Of course, if alcohol is a food product, it must, of course, be said that Liviko has proved herself with long-term determined work in the markets there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U77	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U78	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I also ask which groups of goods could be the ones that we should pursue to this market, which we are selling most now, and which could be the goods of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U79	We're selling some of the stuff we just mentioned. We are certainly successful in wood-related areas, also in some chains that are in the electronics industry. Perhaps we have the greatest scale capacity even in new areas related to ICT. Several companies in this area have moved there, and there is also the greatest interest. In addition to the fact that its products can be sold on this market, it is possible for this market to grow into a global company. These areas are perhaps the most important. There are opportunities for all kinds of logistical, urban and water-related solutions, including those arising from the relatively strong biotechnological level of our researchers. If there is a question of whether to do all of this here or there, then very often it is even easier to introduce it there than here. I am not able to provide you with an exhaustive list, but these options are more or less all clarified, and they are known, they have been described in part in the report as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U80	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U81	Thank you. Thank you for this interesting presentation. Economist magazine and a number of other Western economic publications have been writing for weeks and months that China's beautiful economic growth is actually the result of very deep problems. Above all, those that you mentioned: environmental pollution resulting from urbanisation, also very deep demographic problems, such as rapid increase in life expectancy, rapid decline in birth rates, etc., which ultimately all reduce their competitiveness. There is already news that large investments and new jobs are moving from China to other countries. These are the next wave of land, such as Indonesia, Bangladesh, Vietnam and others. My question is this: since it will take us 10, 15 or 20 years to go to the market anyway, would it not be wise to leave China by the side and go straight to those next wave countries, leaving one step between them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U82	In fact, I already answered that question in some ways when I showed a slide and said that there we had the advantage of first-comers. Yes, it would make sense, but it is quite difficult to include these countries at the same time. They're very different. That is why we are proposing that there is an urgent need to go to Singapore to implement this idea, because Singapore is trying to turn itself into a hub in the region. We have the opportunity to communicate more effectively with these countries through this way than it is possible to communicate directly from here to here. Secondly, I am, of course, arguing a little: China's potential has not been exhausted. Since 2004, they have a programme of re-industrialisation and re-integration in Central and Western China. There's plenty of opportunities. One example is Foxconn, who has moved from coast to inland and the state has built infrastructure there. I think Foxconn has about a hundred thousand people working there in one factory for the time being. In total, he will increase this volume three more times. He's the world's biggest player in electronics outsourcing, the iPad maker who's run through our leaves the most. China's hinterland so-called talent discovery site offers sufficient support for economic development for a long time to come. But, for example, the textile industry (there is no longer any use for it, there is a bit of a difference in pricing) has really moved to third countries. That is why these countries should be our focus now. That's very right. But it needs people who know these countries and cultures again. We have one person on the whole subject of Cambodia, Mr Samorodni, who speaks Khmer and who has done some things there. We'll do it and at least we'll do a Vietnamese team of experts, two or three people. Let's train them. Three to five years will definitely come up with that. It'll be very ripe by then. Indonesia is an even more complex case with its rapid growth, volumes and diversification. I have another proposal that I didn't say in the report, but I was going to talk about it. I'm gonna say it now. Perhaps it would be wise to use foreign experts temporarily, as was done before the war in the Republic of Estonia. There's nothing to be ashamed of. We don't have people who can do all this, so let's borrow them for a while. Let's get this thing started, set up a school, set up a system, and then we'll move on. For example, there are many people in the world who know Asia, and they are highly qualified. We bring them here, we get them to work for us for a while, according to absolutely certain rules of the game. Yeah, we're gonna have to pay a little bit more for this, but what do we do then?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U83	Good fellows! Two questions can be asked under this item. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U84	Thank you. Here's the question. Perhaps this cannot be done today, but would it be possible in the future that, if it is important to discuss a national question and we have three main speakers, each member of the Riigikogu could ask three questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U85	Thank you very much. I'm sure the board will consider that proposal. This depends on which committee or political group brings a key national issue to plenary. In the context of today's debate, the commission had a proposal to ask each of the rapporteurs one question, but the Board of the Riigikogu, bearing in mind that there is a time limit, decided that two questions could be asked together. But I'm sure we'll consider your proposal. Thanks for that. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U86	Thank you. I've got a good chance to get out of here right now. I think you're right, Valdo. We should set our rules of procedure in such a way that, in such cases, the debate is not limited but possible. But, good Raivo, I'd like to ask you as head of the Council of the Development Fund. Indeed, I acknowledge that India's monitoring is a very good example of how one country can be analysed from a number of angles. I believe that this is also a good precedent for analysing other regions or countries. Can you tell me if there are plans for the future of the Development Fund for other Asian countries or Asia? What can you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U87	I do not yet know the answer, because there is a so-called strategic reformation in the development fund. The issue of Asia will certainly continue, but in what form, whether in blocks of countries, countries or other forms, I do not yet know what to say. But we think it has to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U88	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Vare! In your presentation, you spoke on many occasions about the need for more state support as a door opener in order for the Asian partner to perceive that an Estonian entrepreneur or Estonian cultural collective, whoever is active in Asia, has so-called state support. It may be a Member, a Minister, a mayor or whoever, but there should always be administrative support, an internal trust mark there. In our society, it is often believed that there is corruption, because why a minister or a Member supports one undertaking or another. How do you comment on this situation? Can the Development Fund contribute to public opinion on this issue in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U90	Thank you for a very good question. I think this is another fundamental task in shaping Estonian models of thinking. We have an intrinsically opposed public and private interest. It's considered normal that they're opposite. Combining them automatically means a sense of corruption. That's the wrong idea. It doesn't apply in Asia, it doesn't apply anywhere in the world. This does not apply to other countries of the European Union, as everyone who has come into contact with it is well aware. The public interest can, in European terms, be reconciled with a private interest without corruption. Moreover, this is particularly important in Asian culture, because it is vital to show constant national trust and its level. That is why it is perfectly normal for the heads of state to go to state visits with business delegations, which is why the representatives of one level or another of the country go to all other events for the same reason, not just in Asia. A good example is the pattern of Germany. If you look at any major event where a German business representative is present in any form, you may consider that there is also a minister or at least the head or deputy head of the committee. That's normal. Chancellor Merkel does not consider it a major problem to regularly visit China for the benefit of German exporters. I think the answer is here. We don't have a choice either. As a small country, we need to do even more of this. Returning to the Korean example of the President's video message, we must say that we have the advantage that distance between the peaks of power and those involved is less. It is therefore possible to stage cooperation with economic agents much better, to do so technically much more talentedly than can afford to have large countries that can perhaps only send their peak once a year, and then with a large aplomb.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U91	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U92	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Has the Development Fund analysed how much the Estonian state, along with entrepreneurs, has contributed in percentage, financially to promoting our country towards Asia, compared to other regions? Are there any such indicators?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U93	This analysis has not been directly carried out by the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U94	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. Good colleagues, I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Marianne Mikko, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Foreign policy and defence policy in Estonia have been areas where there has been a tacit agreement that debates are not held in public, but that what is decided behind closed doors comes out consensually. Until the accession of the European Union and NATO, this consensus apparently justified itself. Since we have been members of both super-organisations for eight years, we can feel more courageous and freely express our opinion. For years, Estonia's foreign policy has been focused on its eastern neighbour, and Estonia has therefore almost publicly been stampled on the Brussels corridors as a country of one topic. That's a shame, of course. According to the report of the Institute of Foreign Policy on Estonian Foreign Representations, the political parties' so-called foreign policy benches are short, which is why the higher echelons of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the informal network surrounding them dominate foreign policy. It is difficult for me to make an assessment of the length of the benches, but the Institute for Foreign Policy is right that the executive power sneaks out the Riigikogu's role in foreign policy. Two annual general foreign policy debates have become unnoticed one, while the Committee on Foreign Affairs has a reduced say in the appointment of ambassadors, etc. Therefore, the hearings on Asia in the XII Riigikogu are welcome. Let us be frank. It is high time that the member state of Estonia had its say in Asia-Discourse so as not to give land to the understanding that 'when Arno and his father arrived at school, the Asian class had already ended'. It doesn't matter whether it's big or small, but Estonia is equal among the equals, a country in the European Union where world affairs are discussed alive and the world is influenced by European politics. Asia is exciting, but very complicated. Having been a politician himself repeatedly on missions to Asia for five years, I can only say for certain one thing: China can only be compared to India because of size. Asia includes North Korea as well as Bhutan, Bangladesh and Singapore. From an economic, cultural or religious point of view, it is not possible to bring Asia under a single denominator. This is the first observation of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which bears the ambitious title 'Estonia's opportunities and interests in Asia until 2025'. But let's also really be in 2025. However, the report is here and now, although the title relates to other things. Secondly, when analysing the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by country, China is undoubtedly the focus of interest. If I consider myself perhaps more of an expert in the field of India, I would argue that, although the report mentions an excellent Indian monitoring of the Development Fund, it remains, unfortunately, Ding an sich, a matter of its own. This is not even close to the Chinese approach in the general context. If the report had not taken on an ambitious 13-year perspective, it could be forgiven, but it is a time perspective that requires India to be given several times more attention. After all, this is the world's largest democracy and, unfortunately, the world's largest nation, which means the largest market. With India, we are united by an understanding of the opportunities and competence of the ICT sector. Why not further develop this issue in your report with a view to the future? It should also be taken into account that Estonian resources are human assets and that the 21st century is a century of services rather than industrial production. Thirdly, in the case of security trends in the report, I could not get rid of the question of the International Centre for Defence Studies in Estonia, if the only source quoted in the Riigikogu is SIPRI, or Swedish international... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U96	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U97	...the Institute of Peace Studies. Again, why is the security interest confined to China alone? When it comes to Asia, but half a word does not mention the confrontation between Pakistan and India in the context of security trends, let us ask: why? However, I do not wish to diminish the meaning of the Asian report. I sincerely believe that our diplomats and entrepreneurs will be inspired by this. A special study on Asia commissioned for the report from researchers of international relations at Tallinn University is remarkable. The 24 recommendations of the report to the Government of the Republic are, in my view, also relevant. In general, they're strategic, but they're also a little bit like wishful thinking. For example, some Asian capitals could send a correspondent to the ERR. As a former journalist, I very much welcome this idea, but of course I do not believe in it. Finally. The first calf has not gone beyond the fence, but the first swallow does not bring spring. The report, as an attempt to make society think about Asia, is to be welcomed. From now on, however, I would like to put a more structured approach and comparative analysis at the heart of the Asian report's authors. The Social Democrats consider Asia's topic to be the beginning of a new era in Estonian foreign policy. Good luck to us, because Asia demands professionalism in every sense. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U98	Thank you. I ask Marko Mihkelson, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U99	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of the opportunity to speak on behalf of my group. I'll make it brief. I am not going to repeat the views I presented as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs during the presentation. These are also shared by my group's fellow Members. We have also discussed these issues in the IRL Foreign Policy Council. As has already been said many times today, this is the beginning of a longer journey. We really should go deep in one particular area or another. I got a chance to talk right after Marianne. As Marianne referred to a few aspects in her speech, which also concern the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will first take care of them quickly. You mentioned that there was an order from somewhere to draw foreign policy discussions in the Riigikogu from two to one. Let me remind you that when we made a legislative amendment a few years ago, we agreed (this was the initiative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu) that we really focus on a general debate on foreign policy that takes place in February each year. This will, of course, leave the Committee on Foreign Affairs the opportunity to initiate, at any given moment, also in-depth debates on some specific foreign policy issues. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, today's debate is an example of when the Committee on Foreign Affairs launches a debate on a specific issue. Secondly, the representative of the Social Democrats indicated that the Committee on Foreign Affairs had been deprived of competence in the hearings of the ambassadors. This has certainly not been reduced, but has been much clearer in the current procedure. The members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs know that we are working very smoothly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here. Marianne ended up on a positive note. I, too, want to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues. I thank the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu once again, as well as all other members of the Riigikogu! Today showed that it is probably necessary to have more frequent discussions in the Riigikogu Hall concerning Estonia's future strategies. The year 2025 is not too far away. Many of the activities that have been listed in the report will certainly take so much time, perhaps even a little more. This is a confirmation that the members of the Riigikogu must focus their work not only on specific topical issues or on issues arising from elections, but must look further, they must look at topics that are really important for securing and growing Estonia's international competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U100	Thank you. Margus Hanson, representative of the Reform Party of the Riigikogu speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Reform Party Group recognises the initiative and work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in drafting the Asia-Report and bringing it to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Asia is big and multifaceted, which has been mentioned here many times today. There is also a multifaceted relationship with the countries there. That is why I, too, am limited to a few aspects of the development of Asian relations. The rapid rise of Asia is indisputable. During the period under examination, the population of these countries is growing; the purchasing and mental forces of the inhabitants are gaining strength. Together, consumption patterns change. All of this has the effect of making the economy grow faster than the so-called old world economies. By 2030, the Asia-Pacific middle class will account for two thirds of the world's middle class. Trade and the need for energy sources, including alternative energy solutions, will also increase alongside demand and rapid growth in the economy. An increasing proportion of the world's economic power, as well as money and knowledge potential, is concentrated in Asia. Therefore, it is no longer a question of whether Estonia, i.e. the state, businesses, citizens, has an interest in this region so geographically, but even more culturally distant and opportunities to operate there. Rather, you have to ask how to get there, but also ask where to go. What's the status quo? Our exports to Asian countries account for around 3% of total exports and imports from these countries are less than 6% of total imports. However, in our current trading partner countries, growth prospects, both short-term and long-term, are much more modest than in Asian locomotives. Could Estonia's next ambitious enough to boost trade with Asian countries and a "big target" of new growth for our economy? At the same time, we must certainly take into account the difference in scale, which at times is not a hundred but even a thousand times. Therefore, because of limited resources, it is important to focus our activities on certain areas, perhaps also on those countries and regions where competition is lower and interest in us is greater. I just can't make it all at once. The researchers of the Tallinn University Institute of State Sciences presented in the report must agree with the view that in Asia politics and economy are strongly interlinked. It is true that the state cannot do their job for entrepreneurs. However, those who have tried to do business in Asian countries say that without close cooperation and cooperation agreements between countries, Estonian entrepreneurs and educational or cultural institutions cannot succeed there. Given the importance of state support, even favourable to businesses in Asia, selling e-government, governance services, cyber security and cyber defence at the so-called national level is also important in promoting other economic links, even in view of the rapid growth of Internet users in Asian countries in the coming years. All the more so, Skype has already done the preliminary work in introducing Estonia. We have running e-apps. We're kind of a model country. It is now up to all of this to be implemented in the emerging markets. Our businesses need the moral support of the state to enter these distant markets. In this way, visits by Estonian heads of state to Asian countries are certainly essential for opening the right doors, which are high-level and consistent, together with business delegations. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U102	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U103	It must be accepted that both the European Union's Asian policy and the measures implementing it still have room for improvement. The central support of the European Union, including through the European External Action Service, would help the country with limited resources to the size of Estonia and allow it to optimise its spending, both financial and human resources. It would therefore be reasonable for Estonia to contribute to the design and implementation of a common European Union strategy for Asia, including the conclusion of free trade agreements. We must also agree that, compared, for example, with the large countries to which the report is mainly focused, our prospects may be better confirmed, especially in the countries of Southeast Asia. The brief contacts with the countries there confirm that we are expected in these countries and that it is easier to make ourselves visible there. Finally. However, the fact is that we are not too familiar with these countries. There are few experts who know this region, whether as experts in public offices, business or elsewhere. The recommendations made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the report would help bridge this gap, not immediately, but we must start somewhere. We hope that today's debate in this Chamber will also be one step along this path. After all, the Chinese proverb says that a thousand-mile journey begins with a single step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U104	Thank you. Please ask Vladimir Velmani, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, a former Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia said that the main aim of the government he led was to ensure the irreversible movement of Estonia towards the West. As a historian and politician, he may have been right, but he made a mistake in geography, because if we move irreversibly west, we will definitely find ourselves in the east. This is where we kind of are today. If you briefly summarise the topic "Estonia's opportunities and interests in Asia until 2025" discussed today in the Riigikogu, you can say that there are not many opportunities, but the interest is very great, especially by Estonian companies. We have one umbrella organisation in the form of the European Union. In European countries, we have the most foreign representations, which are also historically and geographically understandable. Perhaps it is time to think now about how to reorganize the network of foreign representations so that we can cover more regions that are of interest to the Estonian state. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke on several occasions in the Commission that some steps were already being taken in this direction. For example, foreign representation will be closed in the Republic of Bulgaria. It would be good if people who have received good consular practice and diplomatic practice in Europe could be retrained to be able to work in the region that we are talking about today. Raivo Varel was a very interesting idea. We should really hire specialists from the world who we have few, and with their help, we should resolve some of the issues that we are very interested in. Given the general culture of the Asian countries, including political culture, it must be admitted that respect for them is very important, which requires visits by the President of Estonia and the Prime Minister to the Asian countries. The President of Estonia has hardly visited Asian countries in recent years, which will certainly not help to raise our country's level in the eyes of Asia. There was also a question about Russia in the hall, because Russia is the asshole that is in some sense between Asia and Estonia. In view of the fact that two thirds or even more of Russia's territory is located in Asia, the Estonian state should, of course, be interested in the long-standing issues that are still up to now being resolved. It has to be said that, lately, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and its chairman have done quite a lot of work on this. Here we can mention the meeting with the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Duma in Moscow and the agreement to restore contacts between the two parliaments. The visit of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs to Pihkva awaits, where we meet people dealing with foreign policy issues in the Federation Council. So you can see the movement in that direction. Finally, I would like to thank all the officials of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in particular Ivar Möldri, who gave the Riigikogu a very well drafted report for the first time, which will certainly be an example for colleagues on other committees. The form of the report is exemplary, content can and must be debated, that is what the Chamber of Riigikogu is for. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party shares the view that all political parties represented in the Riigikogu must maintain a common line in foreign policy matters. This will secure the country's position on the external front. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-31_U106	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Once again, thank you very much to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, its Chairman, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet and the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund, Raivo Vare! Thank you, of course, also to you, good colleagues, for your questions and opinions. The debate on a key national issue is closed. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 12.28 p.m.
