ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U2	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good afternoon. The Social Democrats of the Riigikogu and the members of the Democratic Association present an inquiry to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir today. We want to find out what the National Audit Office thinks about the deliberate violation of the law in the conduct of the public procurement of the construction of Narva's new power plant. Last week it became known that the construction procurement of the first block of the power plant was in breach of both the Public Procurement Act and the Penal Code. It also became public that Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts intervened vigorously so that Eesti Energia would enter into a cooperation agreement with Alstom. As the task of the National Audit Office is to give both the public and the Riigikogu confidence that taxpayers' money is used legally and effectively, its assessment is very important. All the more so, this is a huge investment, ultimately amounting to nearly EUR 1 billion. We ask why the winner of the announced public procurement for the construction of a new oil shale block was chosen from among the two tenderers who did not meet the tender specifications and what irregularities were committed in the procurement process. We also ask whether the Government had known before the decision that Alstom and its subsidiaries, which had been declared the winner of the procurement, had been investigated by the French, Swiss, United Kingdom and United States authorities in relation to the suspicion of money laundering and bribery for at least 11 countries, including Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U3	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Eleven members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. This concerns the law on debt restructuring and debt protection. Turns out we've done another law in this hall, which, when we're at the table, it's like it's working, but it's not in real life. In July of this year, news came out in the press that, between the entry into force of the Law on Debt Protection on 6 April 2011 and the end of June of this year, 61 applications for debt restructuring have been submitted to the county courts, 51 of which have been refused by the court. Therefore, only ten applications were accepted. Timo Ligi, Head of the Working Group of the Ministry of Justice, has pointed out in his work on practical profit analysis of the concept of the impact of legislation that, according to conservative calculations, the staff costs involved in developing one medium draft are approximately 370000 kroons until the discussion of the Government of the Republic, plus the processing and adoption of the 106000 kroon draft in the Riigikogu (wage data from 2009). The faction of the Centre Party considers that it is neither ethical nor reasonable for taxpayers' money to produce populist laws that are incompatible with the purpose of the law. We have four questions for the Minister of Justice in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure in the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated on 11 October, and appointed it as the commission of directors of the Monetary Commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views were presented on 12 October in the debate on the future of Europe and for the European Council meeting on 18 and 19 October in the Commission for European Union Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a draft law amending the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for the submission of the documents underlying the first reading, as amended. 15 October 2010 at 3 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17. Let us now proceed to the adoption of the agenda. It is specified that the National Defence Committee has proposed to amend the agenda for this week and to move the eighth item on the agenda of the Wednesday session, namely the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the defence forces initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the first reading of the agenda for the Tuesday session. The Commission also decided to amend the draft 256 rapporteurs. Instead of Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee, the Commission's draft report will be presented at first reading by Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, with this clarification, I will put the agenda for the coming week to the vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against and no abstentions. So this week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to answering questions. The first is the request of the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Olga Sõtnik and Mailis Repsi, for an inquiry into school textbooks (No 180) submitted on 13 June this year by the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. I'm asking for Yana Toomi, the speaker's desk, as a representative of the inquisitives!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U7	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 7 November 2011, you responded to the questions of the members of the Centre Party Group regarding new school textbooks and said: 'The current situation with school textbooks and teaching literature has been regulated in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in such a way that the Ministry of Education and Research does not have a direct coordinating and organising role in the issuing of teaching literature and textbooks and the Ministry simply states that the textbooks conform to the current curriculum. " At the same time, you have said that the number of problems associated with teaching literature has grown to the extent that both the executive power and the legislator should deal with this issue at the appropriate moment and find optimal solutions to improve the situation. Here we draw the Minister's attention to a specific textbook, which is a Russian textbook for the 12th grade of the Estonian gymnasium. I'm not going to bring those quotes again here, we all remember them, the media have been covering it for months. But here's a piece of drug vocabulary. And now I know a little bit more than when we prepared this question. In fact, in the meantime, this textbook has been cut and miraculously excluded from it the part concerning Russian literature, but drug addiction in Ida-Viru County remains a topic. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister that I am not going to read out in terms of saving time. I hope Mr. Aaviksoo does it himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U8	Thank you. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U9	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners! I will take this opportunity to congratulate Yana Toom on her birthday today and try to formulate my answer in such a way that it is worthy of this day. I'm starting to dissect textbooks a little further away from where we are today. And after you allow me, I will answer specific questions. Some good years ago, more specifically on 21 May 2008, all parties belonging to the Riigikogu passed a bill to the Centre Party, the Reform Party, the Greens, the People's Union, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and the Social Democrats, which considerably clarified the provisions relating to teaching literature. The purpose of this draft was to abolish the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act which introduce prior official control of the content of the study literature (i.e. textbooks and workbooks, etc.). Such a change of law gave the choice of educational tools used at school, including the quality of the textbook and the right to check compliance with the national curriculum to the teacher. Such a fundamental change was adopted on 11 September 2008, i.e. about four years ago, and since then the publishing of textbooks has been the responsibility of the private sector. It is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education to have the textbooks, nor the supervision of their content, let alone censorship. This is not a task for the state. Such an amendment of the law was carried out by the goodwill of giving control of the quality of the textbook and of compliance with the curriculum to the actual user, the teacher, and in the same way it was reasonable. At the same time, we know that we cannot always be sure that the textbooks used by the teacher fully correspond to our understanding of good textbooks. Indeed, the question in the air is whether a country could not play a greater role in this regard and what should that role be when such a decision is taken. So the problem to which this specific inquiry refers is there and the Ministry of Education and Research has planned a slightly greater role for the state in the draft law amending the basic school and upper secondary school law, which is currently in the coordination circle. But now specifically the answers to the questions asked. The first question: 'A good acquisition of a foreign language is necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of young people. How do you assess the need to acquire a given vocabulary - would it not be wise to replace this subject with another, less questionable subject? Does the vocabulary related to drugs and HIV-positive mass rapes enhance the competitiveness of Estonian young people? ' The general understanding of both me and the ministry officials is such that problematic and socially critical subjects should not be avoided in teaching at all or in teaching literature. In the course of learning, it is important to develop values and it is more effective when problem situations are discussed rather than giving a one-sided, inadequate positive picture of society. Of course, it would be good if such issues were addressed through positive role models. For a specific example, it is difficult to say whether the vocabulary on the pages of the textbook is intended for active use and acquisition or rather to facilitate the understanding of the text. As has already been said, the legislator has placed all responsibility on the teacher. It all depends on how he deals with this text in class, what emphasis is placed on it, and how values are expressed. That is the approach that has been, and therefore the question remains for me whether or not public intervention would be appropriate in a particular case. However, I feel that trusting the teacher, as well as continuing training based on such negative examples, would be a more sensible way forward than administrative control or censorship. Once again, however, the subject matter is debatable and when the draft law on this subject reaches the Riigikogu, you will also have the opportunity to present different positions and draw conclusions from them. Question 2: 'How do you assess the role of this text in shaping the image of Ida-Virumaa and helping the integration of Estonian and Russian young people? ' As I have admitted, this is not a successful text. The problem of drug addiction and HIV-positive young people can certainly be better addressed without contributing to stereotyping. Once again, the teacher has the opportunity to use reading texts selectively in his studies, and better teachers also use current media and consumer texts to do so, not only based on the textbook. In the end, the most important thing is probably how the students themselves and where the teacher directs the debate, under the guidance of the teacher. Making decisions on the basis of the text alone would be too superficial. Question 3: 'Does the national Russian language curriculum provide for a set of topics that must necessarily be addressed by the textbook maker? If so, what are these issues and are drug addiction among them? " The curriculum for Russian as a foreign language has one of the five "Human and Society" themes, and the topic of drug addiction is, of course, covered in this area. It also combines the topics "Health and Safety" and "Values and Morality" throughout the curriculum. I wouldn't be able to read exactly the topics that, either directly or indirectly, allow this problem to be dealt with. I believe that, in principle, there is agreement that this is a problem area that could be addressed, only relying on a specific text in doing so is probably not the most sensible one. Question 4: Has the Ministry of Education and Research analysed the compliance of foreign language textbooks with the curriculum, their quality and methodological consistency? If it hasn't been done, is that the plan? ' As has already been said, we intend to supplement the basic school and upper secondary school law so that the state has greater responsibility for both the coordination and supervision of textbooks. I wouldn't stop talking about what I said in the introduction. So far, the legislator has wished to reduce the role of the state and to increase the role of the market and teacher, the four-year practice that has probably been put behind us will give rise to some adjustments here, and we will certainly come up with these proposals. Question 5: "What steps has the Ministry taken and is planning to take to improve the monitoring of textbook content? ' As has already been said, we intend to place a clearer responsibility with the draft law for the existence, quality and methodological relevance of teaching literature, as well as for monitoring teaching literature to the state, namely the Ministry of Education and Research. Such a plan is set out in the plan to modernise the educational system. The basic method is to tighten up the system of review of teaching literature. Publishers still have to order reviews, but these reviews are of different quality, just like textbooks. However, in the presence of these reviews, the role of the state virtually ends. We do not intend to restore an earlier system of student literature endorsements, i.e. to confirm the textbook for school use, but it is planned to update that the state will appoint reviewers in the form of so-called third reviewers, who will review the reviews commissioned by publishers, focusing in particular on the age and reliability of the educational material, cost-effectiveness and didactic feasibility. The so-called third reviewer, based on the opinions of two other reviewers and his/her competence, has the right to refer to the National Council for Assessment, and if this so-called national reviewer approves it, it is assumed that the textbook is suitable for use at school. In addition, the names of the reviewers will be highlighted in the literature, thus emphasising the responsibility of the reviewers for the text of the study material. In the coming financial period, a national programme to increase the competence of authors and reviewers in teaching literature is also planned. The aim is to train them to produce ever better textbooks and to review them sensibly. That's the plan. That's how I'd finish my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U10	Thank you very much. You also have a number of questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U11	Dear Minister, Since I'm quite an experienced parent, I know that this problem is actually very old. Could you please tell me how this so-called teacher's examination or teacher's quality control should take place in practical life? Okay, the teacher discovers there's an error in the textbook or some very questionable statement about how he should proceed in the future? Let me give you an example from the book Chelovek i zdorovje. In Russian and, I believe, the Estonian textbook has been saying for 15 years that a person can live without a liver. And by this textbook, we learn and teach children! How should a teacher behave in such a case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U12	As has already been said, the political will in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu has been such that the teacher is responsible for what is done in class, how is taught. He can state his views and explanations, as well as the criticism of the textbook. The textbook can also be criticized by students, after all, we want to deepen critical thinking, etc. So I do not quite agree that we should have a high national commission, a 'official inspection', which will seal the textbook in order to rule out the possibility of questioning or making mistakes once and for all. I think that, in principle, a more liberal approach is justified, although it seems to me, as I said before, that perhaps we have gone too far with it and, in some ways, the control of the state should be greater in order to find, draw attention to them and, at the very least, exclude the use of inappropriate textbooks, even in such a way as to inform schools. As has already been said, publishing textbooks is not an area that the state should license. You can publish textbooks by anyone, you can write anything in it. This is our liberal understanding, and by means of a national censorship, the problems it entails are not considered reasonable in our Ministry of Education and Research. What are these opinions in the Riigikogu today, four years after the adoption of this legislative amendment, it is difficult for me to say, but I do not think it is appropriate to return to quite national textbooks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U13	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U14	Good minister! Can you tell us what the world's practice is when it comes to teaching literature? Do other countries also produce textbooks for schools by private companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U15	It is difficult for me to give an exhaustive answer, but it is quite clear that there are private publishers everywhere in the world. It is perhaps not so much a question of whether the publisher is a private person or a public body, as to whether the state formally validates the textbooks and authorises them to be used at school. I think that the desire to lose national control is linked, let's say, to such post-Soviet thinking. We have retreated from the understanding that there is a national truth. The world is more diverse. You have to make choices in life, you have to think critically, a nationally validated textbook bears quite clearly another ideology. This is what the country has declared true. There are certainly countries whose practice is different, where textbooks are confirmed by a national decision. And there are countries with textbooks on the so-called free market where they are not confirmed. I'm pretty sure I know that about college textbooks. I think that, unlike my Soviet textbooks, the textbooks I have taught myself are all without a national seal, and they have come from quite different countries. So practice is different and it is difficult to answer one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U16	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U17	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a good question to ask you in this sense that you can answer it in one or at most two words. For the sake of objectivity, we imagine that the textbook, which is the basis for this inquiry, is not a Russian textbook for the Estonian gymnasium, but an Estonian language textbook for the Russian gymnasium, and it is about Central or West Estonia and it is about vices such as beating the police, drinking, etc. The question is this, which can be answered very briefly: what grade would you put on a scale of 1 to 5+?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U18	I've already told you, I'd put a bad grade on this text. And certainly the assessment must not depend on whether it is a Russian textbook for Estonian schools or an Estonian textbook for Russian schools. The inappropriate and unbalanced content is equally deplorable in both cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U19	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U20	Dear Minister, You were talking about review. As you know, this particular textbook had reviewers and the result is what it is now. But how do you assess, maybe that's the methodical part that's gotten weaker? In this particular case, I am referring not to the method of language learning, but to a much wider one. Because this textbook isn't just a language textbook, it's more than that, and that's what I'm asking you about. Is it missing or is it too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U21	Methodology... It would be hard for me to accept the view that methodologically, the textbooks are bad. Of course, we have better textbooks and worse textbooks, and certainly you can always do better, but I do not want to accept this argument because the methodology regarding teaching literature has got worse. We have quite outstanding textbook writers, and a pretty good job in promoting teaching methodology material is done in higher education institutions, and so do teachers and methologists. I'm not afraid to make a real negative assessment of this activity. But, as has been said, it is always better to do, and the choice of principle is still quite clear: whether we want to restore national pre-control, permit-banning of textbooks, or if we find some softer method that does not take responsibility away from the teacher, but at the same time prevents weaker textbooks from reaching schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U22	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U23	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said the Ministry of Education gave up the task of preparing textbooks and monitoring their quality four years ago. You know, when I said that, it sounded like a nostalgic note in your voice. I don't know, maybe it just seemed to me. But here's my question. Do you, as a minister, have an overview of the size of this team in Estonia that is involved in preparing textbooks? Or shouldn't your ministry be interested in that at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U24	First of all, the nostalgic note. The Supreme Riigikogu took this task away from the Ministry of Education and Research. I know the Department of Education and Research officials already had problems at the time. At the same time, I made myself, hopefully, clear enough. I think the country should have more responsibility for having textbooks. I stress that the Ministry of Education does not have to worry about whether or not there are textbooks at all. The law does not impose such an obligation on the executive. That's what I consider unacceptable. We know that the public has been complaining that certain textbooks are not in time, and I think the Ministry of Education and Research should be responsible for the availability and availability of textbooks. As far as quality is concerned, the situation is slightly more controversial in this regard, as I was trying to explain. We do not want to restore the system of national permits, instead we want to strengthen the system of reviewers. There are hundreds rather than dozens of textbook writers. They are of different levels and the Ministry of Education and Research does not coordinate the work of textbook writers in the slightest. I also stressed that we are planning to propose one such measure for the next budget period 2014‐2020, aimed at training textbook writers and reviewers. However, I stress once again that Estonia currently has a different understanding than the totalitarian state. We don't have the country's truth. We also try to organise what is happening at school in an open and critical environment, so that teachers and students learn to consider different approaches and to take a critical approach to texts that are handled at school instead of learning the so-called Bible commands literally by heart. This approach is, in my opinion, basically correct, but obviously the balance point has shifted slightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U25	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U26	Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the money needed to buy textbooks and other learning tools. As we know, so far local governments have only had enough of this money to buy textbooks; other educational resources have not been purchased because there is no money. Are there plans to increase these amounts in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U27	I'm sure there's going to be a lot of money. The country will become richer, our economy will grow, and more money will come into education as well. True, at the moment, we have a pretty clear priority for teachers' salaries, but it is likely that other priorities will also gradually be reached. The question of teachers' pay we take very seriously in the ministry. I am deeply convinced that the increase in teachers' pay must be a priority, and in practice the priority means nothing more than that, first, the priority issues will be resolved and then others, which are also essential, but not essential at a particular moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U28	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U29	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In twenty years, we have allocated millions of euros to the integration process. At the same time, integration monitoring still shows, unfortunately, that relations between Estonians and Russians are quite intense. There is no communication between themselves and there are no acquaintances in different communities. Don't you think these books are one of the reasons? If a child in school is invented that Russians, non-Estonians at all, are drug addicts and criminals, if we often hear from various media that one or the other crime has been committed by a Russian-named person, then on the basis of these small fragments, an adult Estonian has developed an image that must be kept away from the Russians. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U30	First of all, this particular textbook. I have not read it myself, but based on the quotations, it seems that it does not refer in any way to the nationality of these people when talking about drug users and HIV-positive people. I am not reading that out of here, it is either meant for you, or you will really be able to refer to where exactly this particular issue has been addressed on a national basis. As far as integration is concerned, it is a very long-term process and the idea that it can be born between today and tomorrow or even within one generation is, to put it mildly, utopist. At the same time, I dare to assume that integration in the Republic of Estonia is now greater than ten years ago, much bigger than 20 years ago, and I am quite convinced that after 10 to 20 years, integration will have gone even further. I think that, in a calm way, the results will be easier to come than by inciting passion around this subject, as if everything were wrong and nothing had been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U31	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U32	Dear Minister, You said that textbooks can be published by anyone and anyone who can write anything into textbooks, and it is only a teacher's choice how he conveys the textbook content to the students. Teachers often order our textbooks before they see what's in the textbook. How, then, should a teacher behave when, for example, one chapter is not suitable for passing on to students and the next chapter is not suitable? After all, this creates a great deal of additional burdens for teachers, because they still have to make the subject clear to the students. You said the whole thing was finally the responsibility of the teacher. My question is: what is this teacher's responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U33	What is the teacher's responsibility? The teacher's responsibility lies in ensuring that what is taught at school is consistent with the national curriculum and the objectives it sets out is purposeful in this respect. And if he doesn't, and there are reproaches about it for anyone's children or parents, the board of trustees, colleagues, the school administration, there are methods to deal with this issue. Just as they are in every institution, they are in educational establishments. But I sense a certain desire for national truth in all these matters, and that makes me cautious. I know that giving freedom to a teacher or doctor, a driver or any other professional is, in a way, a double-edged sword. We need to trust people and we need to understand that this freedom also comes with a greater chance of making mistakes. However, ultimately, I believe that teacher training and refresher training will enable us to prepare teachers who can also cope with such problems in today's diverse world, where one party or state truth is no longer there. So once again: I cannot support the approach that everyone should be subject to a system of national orders and prohibitions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U34	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U35	Minister, thank you very much. In one way, of course, we all understand that it is extremely difficult and whether we want to organise the issue of textbooks only centrally. But the other way around, we're objectively paying off the books from the state budget. In this way, the taxpayer should have confidence that something that is ordered for his money is basically good. I know you have a number of things planned to be reorganized in this area. Do you think that e-books, for example in language learning, are future electronic versions of paper textbooks or are they something completely new? And on what grounds are they planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U36	E-books are a big subject in their own right, and we should come back to that specially. Of course, one good e-book is much more than a PDF file or another file that has been used to print the textbook. But let's not be overly critical of these PDF files. If these files were freely accessible, then there would probably be users. But an interactive e-book that uses really good multimedia features is definitely better than a single print file. Of course, one very-very good interactive multimedia featured textbook is also one very-very-very-very expensive thing. If we look a little bit at where e-books move in the world, we will see that developing good e-books costs millions, if not tens of millions of euros. A very serious challenge for a small country will be whether we can keep up with it. And if you can't, what can you do? Are we going to deprive our children of these wonderful, interactive and pleasant textbooks, methodologically and essentially, because they are not our own textbooks and in our native language, or are we going to use them? And if we use them, how? Shall we translate? A number of problems we have encountered a little when using software in educational establishments. Although we would probably like to use only Estonian-language software, it must be acknowledged that this is not 100% of the case at the current school. By force of the Act to oblige or prohibit the use of teaching material in other languages in Estonian schools would probably not be very effective. It is very wise to do so here and to deal with this subject very effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U37	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. We're gonna start negotiations. Does Mikhail Stalnukhin agree that Yana Toom, the author of the inquiry and today's birthday child, will enter into negotiations? Got it! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U38	Thank you, Yana! Ladies and gentlemen, I remembered how an Estonian language textbook was published in the early 1990s, 1993 or 1994 and was based on shock therapy. All the persons in this book were negative, all were highly disgusting, there was a corresponding vocabulary, etc. At that time, the Association of Estonian Language Teachers and several other social organisations stood up to this textbook. There was a lot of massive criticism of this textbook. Why? This is because even if there is no mention of a particular nation, the story is that if a person of another nationality, such as a Russian, learns the Estonian language according to this textbook, then the language taught to him in this textbook is related to Estonians. It is not necessary to state at all times that these are Estonians or that they are not Estonians. It is exactly the same with the textbook that prompted it to be understood. Its authors may be offered to expand this topic. As far as drug addiction, alcoholism, smoking, medical problems are concerned, we could add prostitution, bank robberies, and prison customs. I mean, you could write about it, it'd be funnier, wouldn't it? And after that, we will find ourselves in a situation like that of our group in Tartu this spring. We had a group leave, and I joined some of my colleagues in Miina Härma Gymnasium. I was asked to explain to the children why Russian is needed. It was justified that it was impossible to explain this to them; no argument would work. This is the kind of textbooks that link Russian with all sorts of vices, which inspire an internal protest in people. We could, of course, do an experiment. Why not? If the minister did not agree in any way to give this textbook a grade, could we translate it into Estonian? It is possible, after all, to use it to teach Estonian in Russian schools. I wonder what the reaction would be? Would we also be told about the free market and the post-totalitarian society, where everyone is free and can have an opinion? That would be interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U39	Thank you. Call chair, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U40	Madam President, thank you very much. Actually, I didn't intend to take the floor, but just a few remarks. First of all, I would like to proceed a little bit on the subject that was discussed by my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. Not only is it a Russian textbook. It is Ida-Virumaa, and we all know very well how many percent of the population live there. The fact that the subject is very serious also signals that this morning all the Russian media were on hold and excited that Aaviksoo will now finally tell us what this is about. So it's not a very simple subject! But I'm going to put this integration dimension aside right now and come to the question of who controls the contents of our textbooks at all. I agree with you, Minister, that national truth should not be in textbooks, even though it is there. If we take the infamous Mart Laar history textbook or whatever social studies textbook, there's national truth in it, and that's actually normal. But I speak again as a parent about the fact that over the years I have been forced to carry out home censorship and to check not how my children have handled school assignments, but what is written in textbooks. And believe me, when I found that the acceleration of gravity was 10, not 9.8 m/s2, I started looking hard for what they said about pi, and I was very happy when I found that pi is still 3,14, not just 3. When I read from the mathematics book that fleas flew one two meters and another four meters, I'm sorry that fleas don't fly, it's not a national truth, it's a biological fact. This system isn't working, you know! I have personally encountered this at numerous parenting meetings. Let's take the same infamous Harri Rabbit book and read the long chapter 'Možno žit i rabotat bez petheni'. No way, understand! When we discuss the matter with our parents, it turns out that we cannot abandon this textbook because, first of all, the market is very small, competition is not actually working, the textbooks are very expensive and if we give up this textbook, we have to buy something else instead. It's very nice that our children's teacher accidentally knew that you can't live without a liver. But a math teacher who's never seen a flea in his life thought fleas were flying! There is a problem, and I very much hope that the draft, which will eventually reach this hall, will also solve these 'little' problems. Not every parent can sit at a table with a glass and check all the national and non-state, truth and lies in our textbooks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U41	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. There's no more calls. The first question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U42	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, Lauri Laas, Heimar Leng, Yana Toomi, Marika Tuus-Laul and Viktor Vassilyev to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal of Estonian citizens abroad on 30 August 2012. In the name of the members of the Riigikogu, I request a speech chair in Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On 30 August this year, my colleagues and I discussed an inquiry with Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. This concerns the crimes of Estonian citizens abroad. On 15 August, the Estonian public received news from various media describing how the former President of the Bank of Moscow sent a request to the Russian prosecutor's office to investigate the information that the bank bribed the former official of the Estonian Defence Police, Indrek Põdra. According to the report, Indrek Põder may have committed similar acts in addition to the crimes for which he is currently serving punishment. If signs of crime appear, the prosecutor's office is obliged to initiate a criminal case, as confirmed by the practice of the prosecutor's office. Although the report has not been submitted in a specific case, the prosecutor's office is also obliged to rely on suspicions of a crime from public sources and to initiate proceedings. Unfortunately, we do not have any information on how the prosecutor's office has reacted to the accusations that a high official of the Republic of Estonia has taken bribes abroad. This introduction is central to a relatively single story, but the two questions raised in the inquiry are a little broader and are also waiting for a wider answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U44	Thank you very much. I ask for a chair of speech to be answered by Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Six members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry on 30 August, which Priit Toobal introduced here. I will start with such a general comment, then I will read the questions and answer them. The general comment is that international cooperation in criminal proceedings is regulated in Chapter 19 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. International cooperation in criminal proceedings includes extradition to a foreign country, mutual assistance between States in criminal matters, the execution of exequatur, the taking over and transfer of criminal proceedings initiated, cooperation with the International Criminal Court and Eurojust, and the surrender to a State of the European Union. If the heirs are interested in crimes committed abroad by an Estonian citizen, according to § 435 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the State Prosecutor's Office must be informed when the Estonian Penal Code applies to a crime committed outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. On the basis of the information, the Public Prosecutor's Office will either start criminal proceedings or verify the legality and justification of the opening of criminal proceedings. Now I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'Do you know what is the usual practice in cases where a person convicted of a crime in Estonia is also investigated abroad? " It must be acknowledged that it is somewhat difficult to understand the issue. The answer depends on whether the person has committed a crime in Estonia or abroad, which is foreign and which conventions that foreign country has joined, whether the person has been convicted in Estonia for the same act or for any other act. For example, if a citizen of the Republic of Estonia has already been punished for the same act in Estonia, it is not possible to start new criminal proceedings against him as a result of § 199 (1) (1) (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which says that criminal proceedings will not be initiated if there is no basis for criminal proceedings. If the citizen of the Republic of Estonia who committed a crime in Russia has been punished in Estonia for any other act, this punishment does not matter for cooperation. The cases in which the prosecutor's office can start criminal proceedings against a criminal offence committed by a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, for example in Russia, are defined in §§ 6 of the Penal Code, which provides for the spatial validity of the Penal Code, the personal validity of the Penal Code, the validity of the Penal Code, etc. It is possible to express to a foreign country the wish to take over the procedure started there for further processing in Estonia. This is particularly true if it is a foreign country to which Estonia does not give up its citizens, such as Russia. A joint investigation team may be carried out where both parties are subject to the relevant international instrument within the European Union and may also communicate using legal aid applications where necessary. The assumption is that if a foreign state needs help in its pre-trial procedure, it will address Estonia with this request. Apart from joint investigation teams, in general, criminal proceedings in one crime are still only in one country and there is no duplication, unless the procedure in Estonia does not help foreign proceedings in any important way. In any case, it is an important general principle that judicial proceedings take place in one country. The second question: 'Do Estonian law enforcement authorities cooperate with the law enforcement authorities of the Russian Federation in similar cases? ' Judicial cooperation with Russia takes place in a variety of cases, as foreseen by the bilateral agreement and the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Applications for legal aid shall be exchanged and executed where there is a need and a basis for doing so. The principle is that if a foreign person has been reported and committed abroad, the country to which the first report was made takes the position. Pursuant to Article 30 of the European Convention on the Transposition of Criminal Procedure, if a Contracting State becomes aware, before or during proceedings, that a crime of the same person is being dealt with in another State, it is decided to terminate, suspend or transfer the proceedings to another State. Therefore, this principle does not allow for a double proceeding. In this case, Russia, which received the application, is competent to verify the declaration. If Russia does not consider it necessary to review the report itself, or if it turns out that the act may have been committed in Estonia, then it is right to send the statement to Estonia for taking a position. I will also say a few figures from the general statistics: in 2011, the Public Prosecutor's Office sent 18 such requests to Russia, and this year 13 applications have been sent. 38 such requests came from Russia in 2011 and 20 have arrived this year. Question 3: Has the prosecutor's office started criminal proceedings on the facts concerning the Indrek Põdra case? If not, for what reasons? ' The state prosecutor's office has not opened criminal proceedings. Inquiries have not referred to the specific media on which they rely. However, if you read the article "The Ex-President of the Bank of Moscow asked to investigate the suspicion of bribery" in the Postimees newspaper on 15 August 2012, you can see that no one has any doubts about any additional crime committed by Indrek Põder. This is already under discussion in the Harju County Court's judgment on the crime of which Indrek Põder was accused of receiving bribery in connection with the Bank of Moscow. The decision is made on 26 April 2012, the number is 1-12-3980/12 and is publicly available in the electronic State Gazette. Indrek Põder has already been convicted in court and is serving a sentence, so there is nothing further to investigate about him. This is excluded by § 199 (1) (5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that criminal proceedings are not to be brought if the same charge has entered into force on the person. The newspaper article referred to above shows that the ex-president of the Bank of Moscow is interested in the way in which bribery money was moving in Russia, for which a person has already been convicted of crimes in Estonia. They want to know if the Bank of Moscow was aware of this. There are no additional facts in the article. Question 4: "Is it true that an agreement was reached with the prosecutor's office to protect certain prominent persons in court proceedings concerning Moose? " No arrangements have been made to protect certain prominent individuals, as far as I know. In answer to the third question, I have already referred to the fact that the decision of the Harju County Court of 26 April of this issue, I said, is publicly accessible to everyone and that the heirs will be able to see for themselves what was agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U46	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U47	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As a member of the Reform Party, you must know the manners and practices of bankers and, as Minister of Justice, you know men like Põder well. Besides, you've read that judgment with several hyphens in it. Perhaps this is a naive question, but did Põder represent the interests of the Bank of Moscow in Estonia, or rather the Bank of Moscow worked in Russia as a branch of Põdra?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U48	I dare say that the two sentences that sounded at the beginning of your introduction were, in substance, daunting. The verdict, which I really said, is free to look at anyone who is interested in it. It's public. I suggest the same to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U49	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U50	Good minister! I ask you about the fourth question in question. And let me ask you a little bit more precisely: do you know whether, in this trial of the Indrek Põdra case, the State Attorney General Norman Aas gave testimony and testimony?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U51	None known. But once again, the verdict is public and everyone can see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U52	No further questions for the performer. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The second question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U53	The next item is the inquiry into internal security submitted by Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev and Tarmo Tamme on 19 September 2012 (No 189) to the Minister of Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. In the name of the questioners, please speak to Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On 19 September this year, I, along with a number of colleagues from the Centre Party Group, presented an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, concerning internal security. At a time when the energy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs appears to be aimed at moving the National Defence Academy from Tallinn to Ida-Virumaa, the internal security of the state has been neglected. Police officers acknowledge that community-based police work has been reduced, mainly due to a lack of resources, and have also referred to serious deficiencies in management. For example, fuel limits are monitored with the utmost precision, which means a minimum chance of patrolling. September 6 The Maaleht brought to its readers a vital story that describes Türi's people's fear of thugs. Local residents are afraid to move outside, police are not encouraged to write statements, and local police are accused of cooperating with people from criminal backgrounds. On 15 September in the Vikerraadio show 'The servants of the People', journalist Rasmus Kagge referred to very serious problems in internal security. We were used to hearing about similar problems in the early 1990s, at a time when our legal space and the Estonian state were at the beginning of their development. The information on the site and Rainbow Radio reveals that the police are refusing to accept statements, that patrols are being beaten, that the local police chief is a man whose son has committed drug crimes, that cars are being burned, and that homes are being beaten with bats. Journalists have made a very painful assessment of police management and pointed to fundamental shortcomings in ensuring internal security, which endanger not only the sense of security of the Estonian population, but also their lives and health. Inevitably, this raises the question of what is happening to Estonian internal security and Estonian police. Has there been a regression in this area? You can also bring in the so-called Viljandi case about the beatings of the police. In all of this, we have put together five questions to the Minister, and now we are looking forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U55	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Thank you for your questioning. I will answer the first question: 'How do you comment on the statements made in the press as Minister of the Interior? ' Public claims must be taken seriously, especially when they are covered by facts, are argumentative and rational. At the same time, security is often associated with emotions, because the sense of security is not a rational category but in many ways an emotional category. However, individual cases may highlight problems that might require wider intervention, either within a particular institution, by executives or by the legislator. The police must certainly draw their clear conclusions from the murder in Türi City, which was specifically referred to in the inquiry. The area of government of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the police's priority is to prevent loss of life. In this case too, the police will find out what could have been done to prevent this tragic incident. At the same time, it is important to highlight the speedy and appropriate conduct of the police, which was committed at noon on Monday, and the suspect had been apprehended by the evening of the same day. But it is important to find out whether this case could have been prevented and how to act in the first place when it comes to clearing accounts between such different groups. As far as the so-called Viljandi case is concerned, any attack on a police officer is undoubtedly an unacceptable behaviour which must be regarded as an attack on the Estonian state. We must not allow this to occur when it is taken as a natural behavior. It turns out, however, that there are such individuals in our society. It is important that the police analyse, on the basis of this case, how police officers will be able to defend themselves more tactically in such situations in the future. The second thing, however, is to give this behaviour a penal assessment, which I will talk about a little bit in the future. The cases described in the inquiry show that we need a strong and central, highly competent unit to succeed in the fight against organised crime. As Minister of the Interior, I am moving in this direction. At the beginning of 2012, we created a central criminal income unit in the restored Central Criminal Police to bring the recovery of proceeds of crime to a new level. We have tripled the number of officials focused on the proceeds of crime and a significant amount of money has been allocated to this unit: over EUR 200000. In addition, a central anti-corruption unit was set up in the Central Criminal Police at the beginning of this year to investigate corruption in 220 municipalities in particular. A total of approximately €1.5 million has been allocated for this year to increase the criminal police's procedural capacity and €315000 for the purchase of additional special facilities and criminal intelligence. These are concrete steps that show that the fight against serious crime is a clear priority for us and that there is a will to make the criminal police ever stronger. As regards non-response to reports of criminal offences referred to in enquiries, the state has a duty to bring criminal proceedings in the event of evidence of criminal offences, and that is the case. Individual cases have been identified where the police have not responded to the report by opening criminal proceedings. A duty investigation is always carried out to investigate the background of these cases. I have had to answer a question earlier in this Chamber about the fuel standards of police vehicles. I can still say that there is no fuel consumption limit. All patrols start working with full-time tanks, that's their duty. Fuel-related matters are a matter of organisation within the Police and Border Guard Board. The aim is to ensure that the costs incurred are justified, and this is the basis for the calculations of the management staff in planning the various law enforcement activities. The Prefectures of the Police and Border Guard Board are guided by the principle that challenges must be clearly served and public order guaranteed, and other activities are planned on an analytical basis, in a context of constant fuel appreciation. No challenge that needs police intervention will go unanswered. However, it is necessary to specify clearly the truth of the challenge at the Police Command Centre and its should be based on an assessment of the need to solve the event and of the resource. There will be an increase in economic costs for vital services next year, and Parliament will process this proposal in the course of the debate on the 2013 budget. The second question: 'What is the agenda so that violence against police officers is more severely punished and police authority and public order are also guaranteed in small rural areas? ' I would like to begin with the assessment that the Estonian police have been making significant progress over the last decade, and no one has to be ashamed of that. We're strong enough to face cases like Viljandi. My assessment of such rebellions, violent attacks such as those in Viljandi, is that they deserve rigorous and thorough analysis. Sanctions for such acts must be proactive and dissuasive, which would also mean a signal to the police that they are protected by the state. Today's Penal Code provides for detention of such acts for up to five years. It is important to note that this was an attack on the authority of the state. The state must and can ensure the realisation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of all persons with its authority, including mandatory orders against persons who violate the legal order by their conduct. Paragraph 274 of the Penal Code must guarantee the public's trust that the authority and rule of state will apply, and thus the confidence of all people in the functioning of the state as a whole. In comparison, the Penal Code provides for a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to three years for the offence of physical abuse. The act of violence against a particular authority is clearly a more severe act worthy of punishment, for which a financial penalty or up to five years' imprisonment is foreseen. § 435 of the Penal Code provides for punishment for violence against a military officer in active service, whose sanction is 4 to 12 years of imprisonment. Personally, I think that we could tighten the penalty provided for in § 274 of the Penal Code for the use of violence against a police officer, formulate it through the aim of the act being punished and make it a crime of first instance. Acts of violence against a person exercising public authority, in particular a police officer, in order to prevent a public authority from carrying out its duties under the law, could be acts of greater punitive value. The amendment of the Penal Code is the main designer of criminal policy, the Ministry of Justice and beyond, the question of the will of the legislator, that is, the will of this hall, and we will definitely come back to that. The third question: 'There is only one rescue car left in Rakverre and Viljandi during the reorganisations in the Rescue Board. Does one rescue car guarantee the safety of 20,000 residents in Viljandi City? ' The purpose of the reorganisations in the Rescue Board was to provide life-saving rescue services to the maximum number of Estonian residents through the relocation of existing rescue workers. During this restructuring, 166 rescue staff posts were assigned to commandos, increasing the number of commandos offering continuous life-saving capabilities from 41 to 66. As a result, the number of people receiving rescue services available in 15 minutes increased by 121000. In total, this service is now guaranteed to 93% of Estonian residents instead of 80%. Rakvere's command was full of 39 members before the reorganization, now 36 members. In Viljandi the corresponding numbers are 35 and 33. It is possible to provide at least six men on daily watch in Rakvere and Viljandi command instead of the previous seven rescue workers. The command of both Rakvere and Viljandi will ensure a five-man main car with one independent life-saving capability and the additional equipment required due to the special nature of the event, which requires one man, and the crews of the nearby commandos will also be involved, depending on the nature of the event. Question 4: 'Why would the Ministry of the Interior prefer to spend 100 million euros instead of raising the police and rescue salaries? ' Ladies and gentlemen, your question sounds completely inappropriate and wrong. In internal security, it is a clear priority for the 2013 budget to contribute to human resources, i.e. to raise people's wages. In the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior, the staff budget will increase by an average of 4.4% in 2013. More detailed breakdown and proposals will be presented by the heads of ministry sub-offices. Wage growth is conditional on the reform of the wage systems of both the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, i.e. the organisation of the wage system, which eliminates income mismatch between officials doing the same job. It also completes the establishment of a police and border guard, a joint office on citizenship and migration, which started in 2010. In total, the Ministry of the Interior's budget will increase by around 18.9 million euros in 2013, of which the increase in human resources costs will amount to approximately 8.5 million. And the fifth question: 'Is it true that a detailed plan has been initiated in Ida-Virumaa for the construction of the complex of the Estonian Academy of Defence and how do you comment on the claims that the Ministry of the Interior plans to exchange the land in the area of Ida-Viru County in Tallinn, Pirital, Harjumaa and Pärnu County? ' I am unfortunately reading out of this question the unexpected negative attitude of the Centre Party Group on the possible state investment in Ida-Viru County. I hope that the Estonian Centre Party does not deny the need to support the directing of various investments to Ida-Virumaa for regional policy reasons, whether it is the construction of the study complex of the Estonian Academy of Defence or any other object related to state administration. You can't talk about changing countries! You know very well how far the Internal Defence Academy's analysis of possible relocation to Ida-Viru County is. It's only in its early stages, there's no way we can talk about any decisions yet. The background is so much more that the Ministry of the Interior will hand over all its property to the State Real Estate Company. In this respect, several governments have already agreed in the past that this is the direction of the country. We are preparing a public inquiry into the National Defence Academy, which is answered and on the basis of which those who wish to do so submit tenders. As regards the possible new location, the IRL has formed its position on this matter. In our opinion, the relocation of the Estonian Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa is important for both security and regional policy reasons, mainly because there would be more Estonian state in this region. I myself hope that this example will be followed by other steps, possible investments and the recovery of the general environment in Ida-Virumaa as a whole. Of course, no one can now give anyone any assurance that the future seat of the National Defence Academy is in one place or another. Nor is there a final decision of the Cabinet on where the new and hopefully to be built National Defence Academy complex will be located. At the moment, the Academy of Internal Defence is known to be located in a number of places, and it has 60000 m2 to use, which is obviously too much. It is certainly possible to save resources considerably. We have already achieved a significant reduction in this volume in the current analysis and this work will continue. At the moment, our task is, above all, to clarify the possible need for space. Of course, it must be borne in mind that restructuring must not result in a high-quality learning environment being damaged. The quality of the learning environment must improve and, if the relocation of the National Defence Academy really takes place, we must also guarantee that the lecturers wish to be in this learning environment. This environment should also be acceptable, pleasant and conducive to learning for potential students. However, the new seat depends not only on the availability of financial resources, but we hope that we will find additional resources within the framework of the new financial perspective of the European Union, which will open at the beginning of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U57	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U58	Good minister! I'm sure you've already heard that the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board has been quite convincingly present in all political groups, introducing the present and future of his unitary institution. In doing so, he has quite clearly pointed out the problem of the budget. That's my question. As the responsible minister, you are certainly aware of what is happening in this area of responsibility. And I'm sure you're also familiar with how critical it has been to use the internal resources of a connected institution, starting with having to do unpaid working days, and ending with simply concentrating people. What solutions will you propose next year? Will these problems be resolved in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U59	Thank you very much. As I mentioned in reply to the inquiry, next year the budget of the Ministry of the Interior's administration will increase by approximately 18.9 million euros. It can always be said that growth could be greater. At the same time, in the situation where we as a country as a whole are now, and given the growth forecast for next year, I could say that this growth is important. In percentage terms, this is about 7% and a significant part of it is addressed to the Police and Border Guard Board. This concerns human assets in particular, but economic costs can also be increased. As I mentioned, for example, the continuous increase in fuel prices in the provision of vital services will be covered by these additional amounts. I think that, if Parliament approves the budget, it will be perfectly possible to improve the financial opportunities of both the Police and Border Guard Board and other internal security agencies. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U60	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U61	Good minister! I take this opportunity to reject your claim that the Central Party Group is, as if, opposed to the investments that the country is making in East Viru County. I don't mind! But the question is the feasibility and timing of these investments. I'll ask you again about this Viljandi story and the gang of thugs when the police's limited presence couldn't guarantee public order. In the same "Spectator" show, where this story came out, the patrol officers admitted that there are often situations where there is only one police patrol on the whole of Viljandi County to ensure public order. I would like to remind you that approximately 40,000 people live in Viljandi County, 20,000 of whom live in Viljandi. Do you think it is reasonable that in a county with 40,000 inhabitants, there is often a situation where only one police patrol is in order?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U62	Thank you very much for your question. There are four prefectures in Estonia and within the framework of these prefectures, and certainly without regard to the county borders, the police can redeploy resources on the basis of their own risk analysis when dealing with dangerous situations. The police are obliged to do so. But the question of the location of patrols for the Police and Border Guard Board is justified. The police will certainly draw their conclusions from this case that took place in Viljandi in March this year. In my view, as a whole, our approach could be to make police patrols increasingly risk-based. We should ensure that resources, which are always limited, are used as prudently as possible, but that is not possible if there is insufficient analysis and capacity to assess the risks and risks caused by one or the other event.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U63	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U64	Mr. Minister! The 4.4% pay increase next year, when inflation is 4%, will certainly not hold the police for long. Currently, 281 people are missing in the ideal version of the Police and Border Guard Board, including 101 border guards and 113 law enforcement police officers. How is it possible to guarantee security in the country when so many people are missing at the Police and Border Guard Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U65	The amount of money comes from the possibilities that the state has. As we know, the possibilities of the Estonian state stem from our principles, which we hold, which are clearly defined and in place. The economic growth that we have planned for next year is still considerably better in the light of the overall situation in Europe, the situation of our immediate neighbours and other Eastern and Central European countries, and this will also provide an opportunity to increase the budget for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, there are not enough resources in any area of government, so we all have an obligation to spend resources even more thoughtfully and better planned than we have done so far. Let me give you an example. From the beginning of next year, the use of resources by the police in the area of misdemeanour proceedings will change considerably. We're going to the e-police system at the beginning of the year. So far, there was quite a considerable amount of bureaucracy in the database from the formalisation of the protocol of misdemeanour to its attainment, and a large number of human hours had to be spent. With the transition to the e-police system, where the protocol on misdemeanour procedures can be formalised in digital form, we save around 70000 hours a year. This is, on the one hand, significant resource savings, and, on the other hand, a greater contribution to the core activity that you have asked about. So the lines of work are parallel. On the one hand, of course, there is a need for additional money, which will be partially satisfied next year, and on the other hand, there is ongoing work to ensure that the current resource, which together amounts to some EUR 280 million, is used more and more clearly. At the beginning of next year, I will certainly present myself before you, good legislators, with further initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U66	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U67	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm looking at the bill. The difference between 2007 and 2012 between police and border guards is less than 904 people. The number of employees will fall to around 170 per year. I'm thinking about how people can have a fortress in their work like this. That is why I have a question for you: what will we do in the coming years? I mean the number of people who work for the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U68	Thank you for your question. The number you mentioned is the number of vacant posts, for which the decrease really is about a thousand posts. This decline has largely come from the merger of the Police Department, the Border Guard Board and the Citizenship and Migration Board, one of the objectives of which has been to use resources more prudently and avoid duplication. This concerns, in particular, support services for police, border guards and the Citizenship and Migration Department. As I pointed out in replying to the previous question: the permanent question facing the public sector leaders is how to use the available money in a more thoughtful way than has been the case so far. In my opinion, this is a major challenge for public leaders, because, unlike other sectors, a certain basic budget is guaranteed in the public sector, to which you can be reasonably sure every year. In difficult times, certain cuts are possible, additional sustainability is agreed, but generally a relatively constant amount of money is guaranteed. The challenge for top managers is how to make better use of this existing resource. This decrease, to which you referred, has been mainly due in the period from 2007 to the present day to the fact that the leaders of the Ministry of the Interior have found better use of money at different times, and has been able to carry out their tasks more thoroughly than has been the case so far. I think that this trend is only positive and must be maintained, which, of course, does not mean that we can say that there are sufficient resources in the area of internal security. Absolutely not! But we need to make the most of the resource we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U69	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U70	Dear Minister, Did I correctly understand your comments that if the Minister or the Ministry makes a negative decision on the transfer of the Academy of Interior to Ida-Virumaa, this decision can be assessed as opposed to the development of Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U71	As I explained in my answer to your fifth question, the Ministry of the Interior is currently analysing the possibilities of relocation of the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Virumaa. One of the government departments has shaped its position in view of the security and regional policy needs of Ida-Viru County, but certainly also the aim of strengthening the presence of the Estonian state in this region. There is no single government decision so far. This decision will be based on our upcoming analyses as well as on a public inquiry in preparation to find out the best possible location for the Academy of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U72	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U73	Good minister! Much has been said here, both today and in the past, that the Estonian public sector depends first on the state of the country and secondly on whether the most rational use of limited resources is possible. Reforms have been made to this end over the years. A year or less ago, at the beginning of last year, we examined the analysis of Ernst & Young in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which talked about some duplication and perhaps not the most efficient use of resources, both in the Ministry of the Interior and in the police department, in the same administrative area. I ask you: what are the plans, time limits and other deadlines for structural changes resulting from the analysis carried out by Ernst & Young?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U74	Thank you very much for your question. We really got together with an international consultant from last summer, who was chosen as the result of the competition Ernst & Young. The task was to carry out an analysis, in particular of the strategic and tactical level, i.e. the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of the Interior and its largest authority, the Police and Border Guard Board. The main conclusions were that, firstly, the Ministry of the Interior's strategic capacity needs to be significantly strengthened. In this regard, we started to take steps already this summer and, until the end of this year, to strengthen and increase the base of the Ministry of the Interior, I am thinking in particular of the brains and financial resources to be able to run it strategically well with almost 10,000 employees of the largest public sector administration. The work of the Police and Border Guard Board was indeed duplicated, as was the fact that the tactical and strategic level of responsibility between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board has been confused, rather so that the Police and Border Guard Board has also played a ministerial role, which is certainly not right. For example, duplications of the so-called coordination and development level, i.e. a degree of dissipation of responsibility within the Police and Border Guard Board, have been identified. Steps have been taken to eradicate it this autumn. On 1 November, the new Basic Regulation of the Police and Border Guard Board will enter into force, resulting in the abolition of the so-called coordination level, which is probably the remnant of the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board at the beginning of 2010 and which will certainly have no place in the future. In this context, a large number of posts and specific tasks have been analysed. We will continue these analyses, in particular in the prefectures and in different departments, particularly as regards the specific need for one or the other post, in particular for the support function. Support function means an administration unit at the Police and Border Guard Board in a specific case. The aim, as I said to the other respondents, is to analyse how this very large authority, with almost 6 000 employees, would perform its functions with the utmost thought and resources, while certainly not giving in to quality but increasing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U75	Thank you very much. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U76	Good minister! Internal security depends very much on who lives here and who is allowed to live here. The question is, can you tell us what happened to the residence permit of the leader of the Podolski crime group, Sergei Lalakin, nicknamed onionake? Is the man still walking around with the Estonian residence permit in his pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U77	I can't answer that question right now. I can give you a separate answer if I have asked the authorities who issue and supervise the residence permits, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U78	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U79	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As a rule, a man has one ass, right, and he can sit in one chair. You want to be good to the people of Ida-Viru and say that you have taken a fundamental decision to transfer the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. Good, that goal has been achieved! A few minutes later, however, you will begin to say that, of course, the conditions that must be met in this regard are those arising from the desire of teachers to be in a high quality atmosphere...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U80	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U81	They have to like everything there. What chair are you sitting on? Do you listen to the teaching staff of the National Defence Academy or do you really want to come to Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U82	I have identified the various components that are important for the work of the Academy of Home Affairs as an educational institution and for deciding where it is located. I see no contradiction when I stress the quality of the learning environment, on the one hand, on the part offered to students and lecturers, and, on the other hand, on the regional and security policy, on the other hand, it is clearly justified in my opinion that this educational institution should be transferred to Ida-Virumaa. No decision shall be of a single level. I may have misunderstood your question, but I stress that any such major decision must be preceded by a proper analysis on the basis of a specific action plan. We have foreseen this in the coalition agreement. The final stage of this analysis is ongoing and, therefore, I personally hope that this problem, which is not insignificant at all, relating to the availability of money, will also be resolved in the 2014 financial perspective. I hope that we will have the opportunity to mobilise the European Union's additional resources precisely to ensure a high-quality learning environment for both students and students and to build a new building complex of the National Defence Academy, as has been proposed on several occasions, already in 2007, when the government proposed that the National Defence Academy should be located in Muraste as a whole building complex. The Academy's current learning complex is clearly out of date. The institution needs investment and therefore the project of the new building complex of the National Defence Academy needs to move forward unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U83	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair to be negotiated with Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U84	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Colleagues! I just wanted to remind you that when Narva Gate OÜ proposed to the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of the Interior to transfer the National Defence Academy, he also agreed to seek money for the necessary investments. So there is no need to solve the issue of money in such a scenario. You didn't have to wait 14 years. In fact, I came here to say a few words on another subject that was discussed in today's debate. In the course of the inquiry, it was said that one sentence was foreseen when a person attacked a common citizen. If an officer is attacked, the punishment will be much harsher. It means that the authority would be better protected. Should it not logically be that, if the authority is better protected, its responsibility should also be greater? I mean, if he's illegally assaulting someone, his punishment should be tougher. But so much for the background. I am more interested, for example, in the fact that if a crime of corruption has been committed, if it were to follow this logic, it would be all right if people who are in power and involved in corruption were to be punished much more. For example, this topic that we have already discussed here today, which concerned the kapo and Mõtra. If we worked out a law by such logic, Mr Moose would be a very warning example for all the rest of the corruptians, which can and must not be done. So much for just thinking, maybe it's worth moving in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U85	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The third question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U86	Next is the request to Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, submitted on 14 June 2012 by Yana Toomi, Peeter Võsa, Kadri Simson, Lauri Laas and Viktor Vassilyev, members of the Riigikogu. I ask you to speak on behalf of the speakers of the speech chair, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U87	Madam President, thank you very much. We therefore have an inquiry to the Minister for Social Affairs. This is about an open electricity market. The increase in electricity prices also affects small businesses providing social services, such as nursing homes, which offer 24-hour care facilities. The price of the bed day of nursing homes varies across Estonia, but on average the resident of the nursing home has to pay approximately 500 euros per month. This amount is considerably higher than the average pension, and already local authorities or their own are paying an additional premium so that old people can be kept in more or less decent conditions. The increase in electricity costs puts nursing homes in a difficult situation, as there is nothing left to cover the costs but to start raising the price of the bed day. However, this could make it even more difficult for those members of society who do not have the possibility to pay such a large amount each month to access this service. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister, which I am not going to read out. I hope Mr. Pevkur does it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U88	Thank you. I ask you to answer your speech chair questions, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U89	Honourable Riigikogu! Good chairman of the sitting! Good heirs! Four questions, as mentioned. First: Has the Ministry of Social Affairs analysed how the increase in electricity prices affects the prices of social services? ' The answer is, yes, we have still analyzed. We will try to base our analysis on all the materials available to us, such as the national website www.avatud2013.ee or the explanatory memorandum to the Electricity Market Act and the related draft law amending other laws, and then try to make calculations. It is clear that prices for social services may rise. We have been thinking about the institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we have predicted special welfare and replacement care fees and provided for appropriate measures. The second question was how much the increase in electricity prices could affect the availability of social services. Its impact varies from provider to provider. As I said, with regard to special care and substitute care, i.e. special care providers and orphanages, i.e. substitute homes, we have planned to reflect the effect of rising electricity prices in the price of services. At the same time, we have looked at the potential for reducing electricity consumption. New replacement homes are much more electrifying than old ones. How much this affects the availability of services provided by municipal general care homes is difficult to predict. I hope it doesn't. Question 3: "How does the Ministry of Social Affairs intend to support the provision of social benefits under rising electricity prices? ' As I have already said, we have built new houses that are all more energy-efficient, including more energy-saving. The current forecast is that, compared to the existing old Soviet buildings, we can be about four times more sustainable in new buildings in terms of electricity. And, as has been said, we intend to adjust the prices of public services in such a way that service providers have money to raise both wages and pay more for electricity. The fourth question is how much the number of people in need will increase after the increase in electricity prices and how much we have taken into account the increase in income support in this respect. In this respect, too, we've done all the calculations. Our initial forecasts, as precise as we can do, say that the opening up of the electricity market will increase the income support budget by about EUR 662000. At the same time, if you look at income support at all, other effects must be taken into account. For example, an increase in unemployment benefit from EUR 65 to EUR 145 reduces the number of beneficiaries of income support to almost the same extent, with a financial contribution of more than EUR 600000. Certainly also an improvement in the economic environment, an increase in employment will reduce the number of applicants for income support, which amount to a sum that means that next year we will not have to foresee a special increase in the amount of income support in the state budget. I don't have the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act at hand here, but you can take it out, there are 24 million euros in it, and 600000 euros due to the increase in electricity prices are included in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U90	Thank you very much. Please, Yana Toom, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U91	Do you have any idea, perhaps, that, as we have here in the letter of inquiry, the care home cost 500 euros in the middle of the month? I just heard you say that newer houses are more sustainable and so on. Sadly, at the end of the Soviet era, I remembered the huge Dog Nursing House, which has large halls built through three or even four floors that cannot be heated in any weather. What could be the price of a place in this nursing home in the future if it is now about EUR 500? Is there a significant price increase to be expected, or do you not consider it to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U92	As I have already said, we can predict more precisely the social services that are within the scope of government, in which we have really tried to go to the details. In the case of general care homes owned by municipalities, it is believed that local governments have made their own price calculations and can also tell the forecasts. If you take the bill that was here in the Riigikogu, the electricity bill was expected to increase by a certain percentage. If you take the general costs of the Dog's nursing home, it is possible to calculate the cost of the electricity bill separately and to divide the amount by the number of inhabitants of the house. I think the average cost of a house dweller is very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U93	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U94	Good minister! It is clear that the increase in electricity prices does not only mean higher electricity bills, it can mean an overall increase in inflation, an increase in food prices, etc. If you make your forecasts, have you also taken into account the increase in the price of the social services you are buying? For example, children and such services, home care etc. grow in foster homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U95	At the moment, we have calculated in detail the possible price increases of the public service agencies, and we do not know exactly what they are and, consequently, the sums planned to cover these services. All other services we will certainly review in the budgetary framework as much as possible, but the first priority is for all people who are paid by the state. As has already been said, first wages and then services prices. As far as foster and care families are concerned, I'd like to get a little bit more sense out of this area. First, it is planned to write the concept of substitution care next year and then discuss what is the fair price of the service. Let us be honest, the fees of a foster family or a care family do not correspond in any way to the market situation. I had a meeting last week with the representatives of the care families, and we discussed the options for improving the situation. All in all, my view is that if more children in replacement care could be directed to care families, I would not mind if we could pay a certain proportion of the replacement care fee to care families. But the prerequisite for this is first that we can channel children from substitute homes to care families, and there's a whole network behind us to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U96	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U97	Dear Minister, You rightly said that the increase in electricity prices will affect the prices of all services. It is therefore good to have this price increase covered in certain sectors. However, social services are often vital services, not only services, but also benefits. Do you think that social benefits and services could in future be linked not only to the increase in electricity prices, for example, but to the overall increase in prices? Can't the relevant index be established and the social benefits increased in line with the overall price increase and be compensated for in the case of social services as well? Nothing gets cheaper in this world, everything gets more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U98	After all, prices for different services are also linked to the consumer price index. At the same time, it should be taken into account that the calculation of this index is unavoidablely dependent on the extent to which the state budget has opportunities. This, of course, concerns services to be compensated by the state budget. I can give an example of the last heated debate here that, when the Health Insurance Fund Council very lively discussed last week's health services prices and the increase in the consumer price index was provided for, given the state of the strike and everything else, the Health Insurance Fund Board was more willing to give up compensating for the rise in the consumer price index and direct this money to doctors' wages. But, as you can see, this measure, too, did not seem to be enough for the doctors. Yes, we can link different services and prices to the consumer price index, but by the end of the day, what we really have in our wallet will still decide how much we can buy for one service or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U99	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U100	Dear Minister, The budget for the coming year will soon be under discussion and local governments will also have their own budget discussion and approval on the agenda. Here's the question: did you, in your area of social affairs, foresee such an increase in electricity prices and, in this connection, in other prices? For example, to your colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, this increase in electricity prices was a big surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U101	I have already replied to that: yes, we have also planned the increase in electricity prices in our area of governance, i.e. an increase in the price of the service or, more simply, an increase in the bounty in order to enable service providers to provide the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U102	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U103	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You will remember the last election campaign and the most important slogan of your partner's IRL, all these clips with promises to reduce home expenses. Now, next year, we will face a sharp rise in electricity prices, heat prices will rise all over Estonia, etc. Such a purely human question: The IRL has already removed a slogan to reduce home expenses from its website, are you enjoying it? Is it supposed to be the greatest joy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U104	Pure human answer: I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U105	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U106	Dear Minister, It is undoubtedly very commendable and gratifying that you have taken into account the wage increase of the employees of public institutions, as well as the increase in the cost of rising electricity prices. What, though, should be the behaviour of local authorities who maintain general care homes? Is there any hope that the amounts allocated by the State will increase by this amount to the municipal support fund or the compensatory fund? There is also the problem that an elderly or disabled person in a general care home, if he or she is not in a state care facility and needs technical assistance, will not benefit from the possibility to borrow or purchase at a preferential price. He has to take the full price into account, and this increases the cost of a nursing home. Have you thought about how to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U107	Municipalities face the same dilemmas as state budget makers. We tried to set priorities in our area of government in such a way that the major risks would be mitigated. Undoubtedly, there are serious problems in every area of government, as do local governments. We are not satisfied with our budget to the end, so we would certainly like to offer people more, but so it is. We're trying to make the maximum possible under these circumstances. I presented our plans in the committee. The 7% increase in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs provides an opportunity to do something in the social sector, but also new things, plus increasing the prices of services, so let us be precise, the increase in the amount of money according to the protocol will otherwise be misunderstood by somebody. I hope that the municipalities will have their priorities set in the same way, but they will certainly have to look at where savings can be made. As far as the tools are concerned, there are certain ideas to resolve this problem. As the good questioner knows, in the case of aid instruments, we will try to establish the logic of the marginal price in the first place. Once it's in place, we'll start looking at the individual details involved. We may already be able to offer something within the framework of this bill. A member of the Riigikogu also asked for this in writing. I'll try to find that explanation and send it to you as well, then you'll be aware of the position we're in in the nursing home with regard to the necessary tools.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U108	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U109	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to come to this remote control, but we were advised that the Riigikogu hall should be optimistic. I'm trying to be optimistic right now. I rarely go abroad, so I often find the surprise one or the other thing I see there. Last week I came to Strasbourg, France, as we know. I stopped by the grocery store and made a so-called "control shopping" there. What did I get there? Boiled sausage, cheese, bread, butter, milk. You know, honeys, we can really be optimistic because we have the same prices as France, maybe a few cents below. In that sense, Minister, yes, optimism is enough, we are already behind them. But this optimism is beginning to disappear somehow when I remind you of the difference between the pension you receive here in Estonia and the pension you pay in France, the average wage we have in Estonia and the average salary in France. The prices at the store are like you don't know where you are in France. If the price labels there didn't have French, maybe you wouldn't know you were abroad. So if you suggest we be more optimistic, please remember that the optimist is poorly informed about the pessimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U110	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The fourth inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U111	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U112	Dear Minister, Let's see next year! It's pretty depressing. We see an increase in food prices, an increase in heating costs, an increase in the price of petrol and gas, an increase in the price of all domestic costs and a real price rally. I ask: how can people do it, and how do you think more people need help? What other specific measures are you planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U113	We'll get to the next question. But I certainly don't see a depressing situation, I'd rather see a positive one. I see that the pension is rising, I see that unemployment benefit is increasing, I see that child benefit is increasing. This is about you seeing only a pessimistic budget, and I'm still seeing something optimistic too. The budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs really gives sufficient reason for optimism, and I think the large hall of the Riigikogu could still be more optimistic. Social expenditure is increasing significantly. And if the increase in the cost of the state as a whole is just under 2%, the increase in the cost of the Ministry of Social Affairs is 7%, which means that we are giving people more common wealth, and this is reflected even in the increase in pensions that are larger than the increase in wages, plus child benefits and other things. Just don't look negative! Keep looking for a positive one! I believe that positive messages deserve more from this hall to the public than such subjective opinions that everything is getting more expensive. It's not like everyone has to get expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U114	The fifth question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendiev, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps and Kadri Samson, to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur on 12 September 2012 (No 187). Please speak on behalf of the speakers of the speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, This question relates to the decline of the average pension. Thanks to Eurostat data, we know that, when compared with other countries in the European Union, price increases have been greatest last year and, in fact, for quite a long time in Estonia. Quite a bit more, we've just gotten more expensive than food. At the same time, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, commenting on the same news at the government press conference, said that our income growth has been faster than the rise in prices. Well, that doesn't quite work out. We certainly cannot say that about pensions. At the beginning of August, Statistics Estonia published data showing that the average pension fell slightly last year. Before that, the average pension fell over ten years ago, so a completely new trend. On this basis, we have a number of questions for the Minister. We also inherited the pension increase for next year, although its size has already been known to be asked for an account a long time ago. I would also ask that the final question of questioning be replaced by 2012 with 2013, which is a fingernail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U116	Thank you. Please respond to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! You have three questions. The first question: how do I assess the situation of pensioners? And they also asked about the average pension. In my opinion, the situation of Estonian pensioners and of Estonian elderly people in general is getting better and better. When I take the average old-age pension in 2001, it was 101 euros and 20 cents. When I take the average old-age pension in the first half of this year, it was 309 euros and 8 cents. The rise in ten years has been more than threefold. That's pretty impressive! If I take the ratio of the old age pension to the average net salary, I can see that in 2001 the average old-age pension was 36.5% compared to the average salary, and in 2011 it was 45.4%. It is easy to calculate that growth has been 10% in 10 years. Relatively, the elderly have certainly been better off than it was ten years ago. If you are talking about an average pension, do not forget that the average pension includes disability pension. Well, I guess you forgot about that when you asked for it. Indeed, the number of incapacity pensioners increased during the crisis years. In particular, the proportion of inability-to-work pensioners with a low percentage of incapacity-to-work increased and this led to a reduction in the average pension of EUR 1. For example, in the first half of this year, the average pension was EUR 274, while in 2011, as in your questioning letter, it was EUR 270,6. This recent rise is the fastest in the last three years. As we know, statistics can be interpreted differently at different times, but I believe that on the pension landscape we can be quite convinced that the situation of the elderly has certainly improved, given that we do not have a pension indexation below 1.0. The second question: what steps is the Ministry planning to take? The first most important measure is certainly to continue, as far as possible, to raise pensions. The increase in pensions is planned for the following year and at least the same amount for the following year. The prerequisite for this, of course, is that Estonian society, the Estonian people as a whole, is doing well. If the Estonian people are doing badly, the pension will not be reduced, but not much can be raised. That is why we have all agreed together in this Chamber that the increase in pension depends on the receipt of social tax and a little bit on the consumer price index. That's all that matters. It is believed that this is not only the concern of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the concern of the entire government and the entire Riigikogu that the people of Estonia would do well and the Estonian economy would still grow. As the Estonian economy grows, the working person of Estonia and thus the pensioner will do better. Another important undertaking that I dare point out here is the creation of disability insurance and the reform of the disability system, which we will have to bring to Parliament by the summer of next year. The reason for this is very simple. We've got about 90,000 in the disability pension business over 60,000 people who don't work. We see a clear opportunity at least to bring some of them back into the labour market and thus improve their daily living, their livelihood. Smaller changes and smaller day-to-day arrangements are not worth counting here, but I believe that for the elderly, the most important thing is to guarantee the continuation of pension increases. The third question concerns the pension increase next year. It's, like, been through, like, 5%. Perhaps less has been said about the increase in total pension expenditure by 7% or even more in next year's budget. The main reason is that our average life expectancy has increased, so that our people live longer and receive longer pensions, i.e. even more simply: there are more pensioners. Secondly, the average paid-out old-age pension will increase: every person will receive an additional EUR 200 when we talk about the average old-age pension. So this increase is 5%. But the total pension costs will increase by more than 7%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U118	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U119	Dear Minister, In fact, the pension has risen less each year than the index allows, and all these big promises to raise the pension before the election are trivial in that sense. Why don't we talk about a real pension? After all, the consumption basket of pensioners is specific. How much do you think we've lost in real retirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U120	I'm still coming back to this index. The honourable questioner was himself a member of the Riigikogu when the principles of indexing pensions were agreed. The point was clearly that if there are good years, we will increase the pension according to the index, if there are bad years and the pension index should go below 1.0, then pensions will not be reduced. However, it was agreed that this non-reduction would be offset within five years at the latest. For five years at the latest, read the law! And now, if you look at the pension increases, yes, in 2009 the pension index rose slightly less, but in 2010 and 2011 the actual pension index was well below one in my memory by 0.91 and 0.95 or 0.96. So after two years, 14% of pensions had to be set off. Since that year, the pension settlement also started. Theoretically, this could have been done one year, but I don't think it would have been appropriate in any way. If we had gone on a one-year set-off, we would have raised pensions by less than 1% this year. In my opinion, this was not feasible and so we chose the path of allocating the pension settlement over several years. This year we had the opportunity to raise our pension by 4.4% and next year we will increase our pension by 5%. In my opinion, the pension increase is quite considerable. And if we take real pensions now, then, as I told you, if we look at the ratio between pension and real wages, then pensions have still increased considerably in recent years. The biggest increase in this figure was in 2009 and 2010, when pensions did not decrease, but the average net income fell from EUR 670 to EUR 637. This figure was then the highest: the average old-age pension represented 47.8% of the average net wage. So it is worth looking at everything in one key, and I dare say that the Estonian state has achieved quite the maximum result in supporting the elderly, given what the social wealth of Estonia allows us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U121	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U122	Mr. Minister! During the Soviet era, the achievements of the socialist economy were always compared with those of 1913. It was the last year before the war and then all these comparisons seemed very solid. Now you're comparing 2012 to 2001 and I don't understand logic. It would be ten years apart or using the same logic to compare with 1938 or some other year. What is it about, why these two years, 2001 and 2012? Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U123	I can count all the numbers if you want. This list shows a very clear trend: the pension has increased every year. If you want, I'll read you the 2002s, 2003, 2004s and so on. Just to understand what happened to the average old-age pension over ten years, I compared the last few years to a ten-year-old. But as I said, I can read you the figures for all the years, no problem, I have statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U124	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U125	Dear Minister, I wouldn't argue with you. You have done all these ten-year numbers, and here I agree with you: Estonia's picture may look beautiful. But there has also been a second process in parallel: an increase in prices. If you take your shopping options ten years ago and your shopping opportunities this year, they are very different. And the question is not how badly or well you think the state takes care of pensioners. The question is whether or not there will be a situation in the near future where pensioners will have to change their place of residence because they will not be able to pay for electricity, heat and many other things. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U126	What change of residence? I got a little mixed up in the question. But if we take on the increase in pensions and take on the increase in average wages, then our society will evolve just as we can as taxpayers. I will give you a comparison: the average net salary in 2001 was 277 euros. We have tried to live according to our abilities. Prices have moved in line with economic movements. I do not think that we should in any other way assess the situation that we had in 2001 and what we now have. The assessment methods are the same. As I said, the income of older people compared to the income of those who are paid in the labour market has improved. Since the discussion focused on the elderly, I tried to give an adequate picture of the situation of the elderly compared to the working person today and what it was like ten years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U127	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U128	Good minister! Surely one of the issues you are constantly confronted with in relation to the small amount of your pension is the annual increase in the number of people receiving the pension from the so-called 'new second pillar'. Quite a few people who have reached such an age that they are beginning to wonder what their life will be like as pensioners after a few years have been quite a negative surprise when they find out that quite a number of years of their hard-working years, for example, 20 years have not been written in full years because their pay has been lower. Can this result in people's pensions becoming much smaller than expected? People have taken into account their pay and careers, but because of their so-called coefficient, the pension is actually much lower later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U129	The short answer is no. Let's start with the textbook truths. Retirement and paid-out pension or, we come back, service and paid-out pension are not dependent on each other in this respect. People's contributions to the social security system are examined. It's been like this for the last 13 years. Do not cultivate in people the knowledge that their years of work are somehow linked to coefficients. All years of service shall be fully taken into account. However, yes, the average salary is taken into account in the calculation of the pension. I do not know what these reasons were, I can only assume some of them, but unfortunately in 1999, when the State Pension Insurance Act was made, people were confused by setting the one-year coefficient for pensions on the basis of the average salary. I don't know why they did it. Basically, it doesn't matter. The important thing is how much a person has paid into a pension fund, resulting in payments to him or her. I've written about it in different places, if you look it up, you'll find examples. But I'll get you a few orders of magnitude. If a person gets a minimum wage for 40 or 44 years, which we have on average, or 350 euros at all times, I use the current figures, it is easy to talk about, then his pension will be about 250 euros. His fall compared to his salary is around 100 euros. A person who receives an average salary of around 700 euros in total, or 44 years, will receive a pension of about 350 euros, i.e. his or her fall is nearly 400 euros. Whoever got a very small salary has a fall of 100 euros. There is one simple justification for this system: the Estonian pension system is solidarity-based and because the pension base is larger, the system supports more those who have had a lower salary and takes away more from those who have had a higher salary. How many years a person worked doesn't matter. What matters is what salary he worked for and what his contributions to the pension insurance fund are. I hope I've been able to explain this a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U130	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U131	Minister, thank you for your explanations. My question has been looked at from this point of view. If a person earns a minimum wage, he or she is expected to earn so much that he or she will pay social tax one third of the Estonian average. If he is assigned his so-called pension share, it is 0.3 of the average. But there are no jobs in very many regions where average wages can be earned. For example, when comparing Harjumaa or Tallinn and Tartu with rural areas in south-eastern Estonia, the inequality is very high. Do you not think that there should be any regional support for these regions or a recalculation of the coefficients of the people there, so that they can still receive a higher pension in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U132	Let's start over. In a person's working years, it is not important to determine a pension. The ratio of 0,3 only shows the amount of its contributions to the pension insurance fund. It is added to the basic part of the pension. As the basic part of the pension accounts for the vast majority of people on low incomes, the pension for those on low incomes will be higher in proportion than for those on high incomes. I'll explain it again. If a person with 44 years of service receives 350 euros, his pension will be 250 euros according to the current rules. If he receives 750 euros, his pension will be 350 euros. Perhaps one of us will take away much more to cover the pension shares of people who have had lower wages. We'll take the paper and the pen if we have to, we'll explain it again from scratch. But I say again: this system is rooted in the reform of pension insurance in 1999, when the solution was chosen, that the calculation of the pension coefficient (which really does not matter to a person, it is purely emotional) was based on the average salary. I don't know why they did it. Could have taken the minimum wage calmly, it wouldn't have changed anything for people. If the minimum wage had been taken as a basis, we would have understood that. The person who received EUR 350 would still have a pension of EUR 250, and the one whose salary has been EUR 750 would receive exactly the same amount of EUR 350. His odds would have been not 1.0, but 3.0, and those who earned the minimum wage would have had about 1.0. So the sum of the sum of how we divide these decimal places in front of the numbers, it doesn't matter. What matters is what kind of salary the person received, and what matters is that if he received a lower salary, he will receive a proportionally higher pension than the person who received a higher salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U133	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U134	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You also know these figures that the average monthly pension rose from 304.5 euros to 305.1 euros, that is, plus 0.6 euros. I mean, it also has to do with the fact that two years have not been raised, as you said. And if it is near the maximum that the country can afford, as the Minister of Social Affairs says, then I think we will never reach the level that our Prime Minister dreams of. For myself and for others, I would like to clarify your estimate of the amount of monthly pension at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U135	At the end of next year? We would dare to suggest that the average old-age pension will continue to rise. I'll explain it to you again. When we talk about the years 2010 and 2011, the pension index was 1.0, i.e. the pension index did not increase. This small increase, which is just below the euro, was due to the fact that people's average old-age pensions increased as a result of their working lives, rather than the change in the index. The index changed from 1 April this year and now nine months will affect this year and 12 months will affect next year. It can be hoped that by the end of next year, the average old age pension will be, I will see if I have these figures at hand, cannot quickly find, if I remember correctly, between EUR 330 and EUR 340. Ahh, I found: in 2013, the average old-age pension could be 332, says the Social Insurance Board's forecast. This makes perfect sense because the first three months of this year had an index of 1.0 and 1.044. So next year, the first three months will be a 4.4% increase and on 1 April there will be a 5.0% increase. All of this means that next year the pension could be nearly EUR 30 per month higher than in 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U136	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U137	Dear Minister, Of course, it's nice that pension rises by 5%. It is true that this will increase from April onwards, and for the first three months, the elderly will have to cope with the same pension as today, despite the rise in prices resulting from the opening up of the electricity market. I certainly agree with you, however, that it is often more secure for the elderly than for the young family, but I would like to ask you this. The Association of Estonian Pensioners' Associations, in its review of Estonia's independence, pointed out that the ratio between average wage and average pension has not always changed in a positive direction, there have also been negative changes in different years. The prayer is that suddenly you will send the materials not since 2001, but since 1992 and 1993.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U138	We can also take out data for 1992 and 1993, but we have to consider that then we had different pension calculation schemes. There was a system in place where the ratio between average salary and average pension was quite different and pensions were paid on other grounds. Everyone had the same pension, with certain differences, but in general it was the same. Since 2001, however, we can talk about pension insurance reform. People's pensions also started to depend on their contributions to the pension insurance fund. We still have to compare comparable things, or we're gonna get a little screwed up. But true, even in 2007, when we had crazy economic growth, the average pension compared to the average net wage was less than a year before. The decrease was 1.2%: in 2006 it was 40.0%, and in 2007 it was 38.8%. From there, there was an insane rise in 2008, when the economy was likely to grow again. The average pension was then 41.6% compared to the average net salary and then slightly above 47% in both years of crisis, which was mainly guaranteed by a pension index of 1.0 instead of 0.91 and 0.96. If we look straight at statistics, we have been able to guarantee the elderly that their pension will certainly not be reduced. However, there is no need to blame anyone for changing the pension on 1 April. It has been agreed jointly in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu that the period for indexing pensions is the first day of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U139	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U140	Ladies and gentlemen, We just heard everything's fine. Be more optimistic, there is more wealth, and the situation of pensioners has become ever better! That's a great eulogy! Just as before the Riigikogu elections, if you remember, there were also very many interesting slogans and articles. For example, the Reform Party in Twilight announced that pensions had doubled in five years, and the IRL politician noted there that pensions had doubled in four years. And we also remember the Prime Minister on the Golden Throne with our great promises. But what are we proud of here? The pension increase will be 5% next year, although we know that according to the law, 6.36% could be raised. This year, 4.4% were increased, the index could have raised 5.4%. The Minister is talking about offsetting here, but let's look back to 2009. Then the pension had to rise by about 14%, but only increased by 5%. Then they promised you'd get it all from now on. I don't know where all this is. And we should be happy that the pension, see, didn't fall. If we now look at what is going to happen for the current pension, as has already been said, according to Eurostat, food prices in Estonia have risen in more than any other country in the European Union. While food prices in other parts of Europe averaged 3.2% last year, 8.5% in Estonia. And we know that a large number of food products, including essential food, cost up to 50-60%. Of course, Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi's statement at the press conference that income growth has been faster than price growth is not correct. This certainly does not apply to pensioners. And let's talk about what we're talking about, but the fact that the average pension fell in 2011 still goes down in history. Before that, the average pension last decreased in 2000. If you remember, it was a time when old-age pensions only rose by 1.1%, but the average pension fell. And even then, we had to be happy that the old-age pension, you see, didn't fall, even the crown was raised. At the same time, I think that, when it comes to the average pension, the most important thing is the current real pension, i.e. the amount of the pension compared to the price increases. According to Aare Kitsing, vice-chairman of the Association of Estonian Pensioners, it has just been overworked today, the real pension has fallen by 20.7% in four years. The period since May 2008, just after the rise in pensions, has been taken into account, it was a relatively large increase, ending in May this year, even after the increase in pensions. The consumption structure of pensioners has been taken into account, according to which the majority of the money goes to food, another just as large amount to housing, a little medicine, hygiene supplies, a little bit more puffy pillows, and that's it. That's all they can afford. So the result is very sad: in four years, the real pension has decreased by about 64 euros, or 1000 kroons. If we had taken the year 2008 for the accounting period before the pension went up, we would have achieved an even more comforting result. If we look at what will happen before April next year, when this small pension increase comes, we will see that this difference is going to get even bigger: a fall of 24 to 25%. I want to talk about another very important problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U141	Would you like three more minutes? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U142	This is what the coalition, but also the Social Democrats, have always voted down. The question is that pensions should be much fairer. We need a pension system that would make the basic pension more solidarity-based and fairer the pension ratio for low-paid workers. With such a draft, the Central Party Group and the People's Union have already come up with the right number of times. But every time the Reform Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance, as well as the Social Democrats, have voted it down. It is now the case that a large majority of people do not earn a full annual pension coefficient because of a small salary in one year of work, and the minimum wage recipient has to work nearly three years to achieve the coefficient of 1.0. They have to work three years for one year of service. I think it is important to put an end to the situation where workers who receive lower salaries, such as higher education cultural workers and kindergarten teachers, shop vendors and others, will not receive a decent pension in the future. About 70% of employees have an average annual coefficient of less than one. For example, in 2009, nearly 354000 people received average or lower wages. It is necessary to put an end to a situation where compulsory pension insurance benefits the wealthier and the high-wage earners in particular, while the low-wage earners remain at a level that does not guarantee a decent livelihood. Basically, the injustice of our small wages should not be transferred to a future monthly pension. We understand very well that it is difficult for young families too, that is true, but seniors do not have time to wait. They have contributed to the development of the state, and the new Republic of Estonia has also been built on the basis of the values and experience they have created, and we need to value the elderly more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U143	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Today's enquiries have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U144	And now, after the hammer hit, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U145	Ladies and gentlemen, It is my pleasure to congratulate the mayor of Narva, Tarmo Tammiste! What's the occasion? I'll explain. I have a verdict here. That is the decision of the Court of Second Instance. The first judgment was handed down at the Viru County Court on 30 April 2012 and was acquitted by Tarmo Tammiste in its accusations. The Court found that there was no direct or indirect evidence in this case of what was incriminated to Tammiste. I don't have time to read all these beautiful and shiny formulas to you. Antti Aitsen, the prosecutor of the county court, appealed against the decision of the county court and pleaded guilty to the accusations made against him by Tammiste. It's been a while. On 5 October 2012, the Tartu Circuit Court already stated that the present case must first ask a question about the evidence base on which a conviction can be established and the prosecutor believes that this should be done. In the light of the prosecutor's understanding and the removal of evidence from the testimony of the accused Tammiste, it must be noted that nothing directly incriminating is included in the collection of evidence against Tammiste. Here's a funny line. 'That fact is stated in the appeal in essence by the national prosecutor himself. ' Another political process has come to an end, which has been costing the city of Narva and the state of Estonia 35000 38000 euros, according to very modest estimates by one of the experts. It has eaten nerves in kilos, it has taken years of life, and as you hear now, and everyone can read it, there was no basis for it. The last relic comes to mind with his sayings, regardless of whose mouth they sounded. 'The free man wasn't supposed to kill. ' 'I'm not a free man! 'There is no free man, no prosecutor, no kapo, no those who carried out the investigation, those who accepted an order concerning the mayor of Narva. I would like to say, however, that our so-called free media are not free either, who always, when you say it in plain language, shits people when they go to court and shuts up, doesn't open their mouths when decisions come true. And what to do to a man, only God knows. You know, recently I met an investor who wants to build a huge pigsty in Ida-Virumaa. The current technology, for me, was the big news, is that a pig never sees the sky in his life. He lives in a closed room all the time, and he's heading for the slaughterhouse because he's being killed in the same complex he was born in. In order for us to have delicious meat, the pig must be happy before he dies, and he will be put to sleep before he dies. This is an absolute parallel to our lives! The media's just gonna put us to sleep, and you're not gonna know before we die or anything else. But anyway, congratulations to Tarmo Tammistes. I hope that you too will accept with this approval, because it will give each of us comfort and hope that someday we will get justice somewhere in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U146	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U147	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, I shared my concerns with you, but today I have reason to rejoice, and I want to share this joy with you. A few weeks ago, I spoke about the activities of customs officials at border crossing points, about how taxes are collected, about the fact that during the summer I submitted a written inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. The Chancellor of Justice took time off and handled the case quite thoroughly, and last week, 11 October, the Chancellor of Justice signed a report on the whole of the case. And it's really positive notes. I am very pleased that the Chancellor of Justice has reached such a conclusion as can be seen from this recommendation-analysis. In the meantime, I began to lose faith that Estonia is a rule of law, but the Chancellor of Justice's analysis confirms that at least he can analyse the laws in depth and often declare the truth. This recommendation then reads as follows: The Chancellor of Justice considers that the activities of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board at the road border points of the Republic of Estonia in taxing fuel introduced in the standard tank of a vehicle from the Russian Federation do not comply with the principle of legality and good administration practices. While recognising, on the one hand, the fight against illegal fuel trade, the Chancellor of Justice says that all related operations must be carried out lawfully and in accordance with good administration practices. It recommends that the Minister of Finance initiate a draft amendment to § 68 (1) of the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and that the reference to destination contained therein be deleted. It also proposes a second: to consider the introduction of lower tax-free fuel limits for border residents. What else would I like to say? If you follow media coverage, the Tax and Customs Board has said that they are currently continuing this activity. By talking to me, representatives of the Agency have told me they won't lower the bar. Neither I nor my colleagues, who have submitted another question to the Chancellor of Justice, in oral form, will lower our lats. I invited the people of my region, who have been affected by all these operations and procedures, to the town of Võru at the Dajandra Cafe on Friday this week. The hostess of the cafeteria has kindly promised to rent rooms. At this meeting, we will analyse the situation and discuss how it will proceed. The meeting will be at the Dajandra Cafe this Friday at 3 p.m. Anyone can come and discuss the subject. I suggest everyone on the Chancellor of Justice's website read his recommendation. It's a long 24 pages, but it's very valuable material. Finally, I would like to say that I am not judging the Tax and Customs Board, but the way in which these operations have been carried out, the way in which excise duties have been unlawfully levied on Estonian citizens is unfair. We want the Ministry of Finance to initiate legislative changes as a matter of urgency. The laws must be written in such a way that they can be understood in the same way, even for those who come from Russia, having fuel in the tank, not for commercial purposes, but for their own use, as the law permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-15_U148	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Our trial today is over. Thank you very much to all participants. Have a good night. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.53 p.m.
