ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates three draft laws and submits six draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, and thirdly, the law amending the Financial Management Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. The Government of the Republic shall be represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with these two drafts. And now six draft Riigikogu decisions. First, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the peace-building mission in Kosovo'; second, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria'; fourthly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the context of NATO'; fifthly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the framework of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta'; sixthly, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the International Military Headquarters of the European Union'. Urmas Reinsalu, the Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with these six draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U3	Good fellows! I have adopted nine drafts on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now I'll give you the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the Estonian Centre Party Group. a draft law amending the Law on State Family Benefits, initiated on 24 October, the Committee on Social Affairs; secondly, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft law on the amendment of political party law, initiated on 24 October, commission of the Constitutional Commission; thirdly, the Riigikogu Monetary Commission. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Auditor's appointment for verification of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2012' initiated on 24 October, the commission of the Finance Committee; fourthly, 63 members of the Riigikogu submitted a statement from the Riigikogu on "Estonian Agriculture and Reform of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union', a commission on rural affairs, the deadline for amendments for this draft is 8 November at 18:00; fifthly, in the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and in the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 25 October, by the Committee on Legal Affairs; Sixth, by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary's remuneration law and the Civil Status Acts Act, initiated on 25 October, the leading committee of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 1 November, Estonia's views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Statute and funding of European political parties and European political foundations, as well as on the draft regulation for the Committee on European Union Affairs, were forwarded to the Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed a draft regulation and an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic on the Constitutional Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 November 2010 at 4 p.m. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Good fellows! Let us move on to the adoption of the agenda, with one clarification. In particular, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to exclude from the agenda this week the second reading of draft law amending the Prisons Act, the Penal Code and the Penal Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is on the agenda of this week on Wednesday, 7 November as the third item on the agenda. Dear colleagues, with this amendment, let me put the agenda for the week to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am interrupting the vote because the remote control of one of my fellow Members is not working. So, it seems that there has been consistency between the board and the member of the Riigikogu, we will try again to carry out the vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote this week's agenda with the addition that I have read. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda for the seventh working week of the IVth session has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U4	Let's go to the questions. The first is Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Deniss Borodichi and Inara Luigas. A request for information on the activities of Eesti Pank regarding the VEB Fund was submitted on 10 October 2004. The inquiry is numbered 199 and is answered by Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank. Please present the Riigikogu Chair Rainer Vakra to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In October five members of the Riigikogu signed this inquiry. We would like to ask the Governor of Eesti Pank about the activities of Eesti Pank in relation to the VEB Fund. On 2 June 2012, a news release was published in the media, according to which the liquidator of the VEB Fund has provided the Supreme Court with information that 108 million kroons of transactions involving the certificates of the VEB Fund are not documented. According to the liquidator, Eesti Pank has also provided incorrect data on the size of the claim of Russian residents in one of the 1995 letters, which gave an opportunity to realise claims resulting from the certificates of the VEB Fund for nearly 420 million kroons. To this day, we don't know who moved the money. It is not known whether the certificates owned by Eesti Pank and the state were paid and, if so, how much was received. It can be assumed that Eesti Pank has knowingly sent false information to the Russian Foreign Economic Bank. On this basis, according to the liquidator of the VEB Fund, more than EEK 462 million was recovered from Russia. In so doing, the government and the central bank have never publicly acknowledged that Russia has managed to obtain the money. In our opinion, the central bank owes the public an explanation of what lies behind these dark transactions. Inquiries want an explanation as to whether Eesti Pank has taken any steps to clarify the circumstances of this transaction and, if so, which ones. To this end, we sent an inquiry to Eesti Pank and its President on five specific questions. Five members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry: Kalle Laanet, Deniss Borodich, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U6	Thank you. Please ask Ardo Hansson, President of Eesti Pank, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu to answer an inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U8	We certainly welcome the President of the Riigikogu as well!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U9	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioners! We are working on answering these questions and investigating them. The legality of the decision to compensate claims guaranteed by the VEB Fund's liquidation certificates is dealt with by the Supreme Court. We have always been prepared to cooperate fully with Mr Rein Järveille, the liquidator of the VEB Fund, as well as with the Supreme Court. All documents necessary for legal proceedings have been handed over by Eesti Pank to the liquidator of the VEB Fund, Mr Rein Järvelle, who has submitted them to the Supreme Court. The current new management board of Eesti Pank does not have a detailed overview of the history of the VEB Fund, its events and related documents. That is why I decided on 21 September this year to conduct an internal audit on the VEB Fund. We announced it to the public through the press and this approach was supported by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The purpose of the ongoing internal audit is to look up the documents related to Eesti Pank's VEB Fund and to evaluate the activities related to the fund. Eesti Pank's audit is expected to be completed at the end of this year. We will make the results public and then be ready to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu and the public. The interest and desire of Estonian people for answers are justified. Eesti Pank's internal audit mandate does not allow for auditing everything about the VEB Fund, as the central bank is not empowered to review external documents or interrogate non-bank people. But we are looking into all the documents that Eesti Pank has access to. It is therefore my understanding that our internal audit could also be followed by an audit by the National Audit Office to help us find further answers to the questions. The decision to make an additional audit is made by the National Audit Office, but they have provided us with assistance. As I said, an audit is underway to get an overview, and that is why I do not yet have all the answers, but we are working to provide these answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U10	Thank you, Mr President of the Bank of Estonia. You have questions too. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U11	Dear waitress, You said that the current bank management doesn't have much information about the period during which this VEB Fund process took place. Here's my question. Do you intend to meet with bank managers at the time, such as Mr Siim Kallas, and ask him for details?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U12	Honourable questioner! We can, of course, talk to a lot of people, and our auditors will try to have as many conversations as possible. At the same time, as I said, we have no right to demand anything from anyone because we are not an investigative body. But I think we can ask people, and we'll ask people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U13	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U14	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I understand that since there's an audit going on right now, you don't have a lot of opportunity to tell us the details. But what is your opinion: how much of this confusion will the credibility of Eesti Pank be shaken?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U15	If such serious accusations arise, of course, they are discredited and distrustful. If we now say that we do not answer these questions, credibility would suffer further. We hope, however, that we can provide some clarity. Perhaps we cannot provide final clarity, because this problem also involves circumstances outside Eesti Pank, some data is in another country, etc. We may not be able to determine the whole truth, but we'll be clearer. If we communicate honestly and try to do our best, I hope that this will not damage the reputation of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U16	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U17	Good Governor of Eesti Pank! I also understand that right now, when the internal audit is in progress, it is difficult for you to answer. But when you look at these transactions, it's been almost 17 years. And if you look at these amounts, over 400 million kroons, they're not small. I understand you've only just taken office as President. What made you do this audit, and why do you think the previous Governor of Eesti Pank has not paid attention to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U18	At first, when I took office, I focused more on the issues of the present and the future. In particular, the Estonian economy is currently dealing with other risks related to what is happening in Europe and elsewhere. We need Eesti Pank and I need to run this institution, get acquainted with it, etc. So at first I didn't have a priority. This is, of course, important, but there were other issues that needed to be brought up to speed in terms of entry. However, this topic came up acutely in public, and I began to think more about it. We are following things very seriously, but at the same time we are dealing with many other topical issues to prevent Estonian money from being lost in another case abroad. Why we may be acting differently than the others, I can't answer that. You'll have to ask the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U19	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U20	Thanks! This VEB Fund air or the devil knows where the money has disappeared has been on the subject for over ten years. During this period, a large number of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia have gone gray without any answers from the people involved. It has gone so far that it has even launched a campaign for the 'Message to the Euro Commissioner', which should put pressure on Siim Kallas and other bankers at the time to shed light on the matter. You've accepted your position, and when you started this audit, you have a hunch there was something going on. Are you convinced that the activities related to the VEB Fund were clean, or are you not convinced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U21	How Can I Answer? I'm not a judge or a lawyer. To understand the whole case, it takes everyone time. There's a lot of writing about all this and it's hard to come to the conclusion whether it's been clean or not. I can't say that yet. If this is to be investigated, there are other bodies that could raise the issue. Right now, I don't want to speculate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U22	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U23	Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, The state prosecutor suggested that a separate investigation committee related to the VEB Fund should be set up in the Riigikogu. What do you think of that? How do you feel about this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U24	Thank you for your question. It is up to you to decide whether or not you will form such a committee. Like I said, we're not an investigative body. We can explore certain things, the materials of which are at our disposal and which are within our competence. There are other institutions for thorough investigation. If you collectively believe that this is an important issue for the Estonian state that you need to deal with, it is up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U25	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U26	Good bank president! My question is quite specific. I don't think you can answer today, but remember this, and if the Commission is carrying out an audit, maybe you'll pass on my question, and next time you come here, you might be able to answer. I worked at the time that this VEB Fund issue first arose, in the mid-1990s, in Kunda Nordic Cement as a board member, after being a member of the board. I didn't deal directly with the finances, but I tried to figure out why we didn't ask for our money back. The owners of the company, like they, were not interested in getting that money back. To date, the question for me is why they weren't interested in it, even though it was quite a lot of money. Then why did some want to get the money back today, some didn't want it then, and some didn't want it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U27	Everyone knew why. If I recall that time, I think these certificates may have had some kind of market value and people thought how much they would get for them. Perhaps at the time, these sums were expected to be small. There was no guarantee in that sense. I think the certificate price was low.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U28	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U29	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! First of all, I am pleased that you have expressed your wish to examine this issue and have come up with it on your own initiative. But what do you predict: how close do we get to the truth? Do you have any new, new sources from which you can get information, and can we really read all the audit results?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U30	We will, of course, present all the results of the audit. How much can we clear up? I was a little freaked out when the first time we came up with this idea, there was this newspaper, I think Postman wrote that we'd let you find out the whole truth. This is a very big challenge, and we certainly cannot really do that. But I hope we can still do something, using our own documents. Maybe the data we have will give you a more complete picture. Does that make sense, though, when there are certain gaps in these data? I think there are certainly some questions left unanswered after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U31	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U32	Mr President of the Bank. I have a question that I'm sure you can answer. Some authors, even those who write from ancient Greece or Rome, pointing out some examples of how much one thing or another cost or what the budget was, are calculating the amount of money that would have been in today's money or the other. It is certainly not difficult to say how much it would now have sounded the most amount of 460 million kroons. That was 1995. What has been the effect of inflation over the last 17 years? My calculations show that it would be about 1 billion 100 million to 1 billion 200 million kroons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U33	I don't know the whole history of inflation by heart, but it looks like you multiplied the sum of your time by about three. Perhaps these proposed sums could be true if the initial amount was the circum 400 million. I don't know exactly what to do right now, but, of course, in these circumstances, they're a lot bigger than they were at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U34	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U35	Good bank president! Those who participate in the active economy must always be prepared for certain losses when they are accompanied by bad luck. The VEB Foundation's things are nearly 20 years old. It is clear that even if a crime was committed, it is out of date. That is why I have come up with such a question. Is it not the bank's PR campaign to meet society's expectations? They want to deal with this issue because everyone likes it? We all know that there is probably no truth, and if he is, that truth will no longer give us anything, because the formation of the crime is, in any case, outdated. Then why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U36	We are dealing with this because some of the charges that have sounded very serious. There is talk of counterfeiting and other such terms are used. Such accusations must be answered. Maybe we can't find the final answer, but we're trying to clear up a little bit. This relates to the question of the reputation of Eesti Pank, and it is simply linked to the fact that it is large sums of money. As I mentioned, after taking office, I actually focused on other topics. I haven't asked the auditors for interim reports yet, but if we get the audit report, we'll take a look. This should be done sensibly and seriously, but the bank still has many other issues to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U37	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U38	Very Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your extremely pleasant attitude and thorough answers to the Riigikogu. I have one specific question: when will this audit be completed and how do you intend to introduce it to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U39	I'd like this audit to be completed by the end of this year, and we're working on it. I would like to deal with this once, we do not want to have half an audit and then return to this issue for a second time. I hope we can do this by the end of the year. And even if you can't, I don't think it's gonna take much longer. We should then draw up an audit report and introduce it to all members of the Riigikogu as well as to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U40	Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, I thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair, Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike Aivar Riisalus, we are convinced that the truth is important even if the composition of a particular crime has expired over the years. This is state and public property of Eesti Pank, for which all taxpayers are entitled to accurate information. We are convinced that the public needs to know who is responsible for such abuses. If even all documents are missing for transactions amounting to EEK 108 million, it can be assumed that this is a cover-up for theft. All Estonian citizens and all other persons need to be guaranteed fair and open action by the state and Eesti Pank. That is why we made this inquiry and were hoping for precise explanations that have taken place in the VEB Fund and that someone has been enriched using the money that has disappeared from the fund. Kalle Palling thanked you very much for your substantive answers. We can conclude that an internal audit investigation is ongoing, and we very much hope that the five questions that we have written in the inquiry will be answered sometime. Today, all five of our questions were actually stuck in the air. These were questions as to why the funds received from Eesti Pank were not distributed between all certificate holders as a result of the operations of Eesti Pank; why has Eesti Pank not previously published data on these transactions; whether the Government of the Republic has been informed that Eesti Pank has allegedly provided false information to the Russian Foreign Economy Bank, and the first question that sounded like this: 'The liquidation of the VEB Fund has provided the Supreme Court with information that the fund's certificates have been dealt with unknownly within the amount of 108295422 kroons? Has Eesti Pank taken any steps to clarify the circumstances of this transaction? ' All these questions stayed in the air, we didn't get any specific answers. We hope that, once the internal audit has been carried out, there will be substantive and understandable answers to all these questions, not just in this hall, but for all Estonian citizens. We believe that this is actually a matter of the honour and dignity of Eesti Pank and not only of the bank, but also of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U42	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U43	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am using rhetoric today, which I have used in this Riigikogu speaking board before. The previous speaker is a very young person. At the time these VEB Fund things took place, Rainer Vakra was 10 years old. So he can't remember exactly what happened at the time. In the first half of the 1990s, Estonian society was governed by a completely different relationship than today. It was as if Lembit Kaljuvee, waving an ax in the air, asked why some of the companies that invested in the VEB Fund did not want to get their money back. Some may have, however, received, as has been the case with a lot of speculation lately. In fact, we could ask Mr Kaljuvee: do you suddenly now, as a member of the board, know where the money is? Maybe these sums came back somehow, just to start asking where the money is at some point. I don't know where the money is. Everything was here before, and now everything is missing. In fact, the situation is undeniably serious. But I personally believe that there is too much searching in Estonia in the past. We should rather focus on how to move on with our lives. In this regard, I very much enjoyed saying the opinion leader David Vseviov today: when I think about what is happening in Estonia, I remember Soviet Russia in the early 1930s. In my opinion, such a statement from such an authoritative and intelligent person should make us think much more about today. Why create the anger that would result from getting some information about the VEB Fund, which is relatively likely to make it impossible to prosecute anyone because the train has left? As an entrepreneur, I remain clear that who took certain risks, it had to realise that entrepreneurship, especially in the case of cowboy capitalism, is one big risk. I would rather call on society to be reconciled and to move forward! Let's focus on today, not on things that can't really be changed anymore! Indeed, I have also met people with whom we have discussed the VEB Foundation. I sympathize with them from the heart, understanding the size of their concern when they've lost money. But my good advice has always been: try to work a little better now and make money, then these losses will not be so great. And when we look at society, however, I think that we all have to look at the problem on the side of society too, if we really had to pay out 2 billion Estonian kroons on the basis of an inflation coefficient, for example, this would obviously be a far too pointless burden for ordinary citizens, good people in Estonia, which would make the situation of the people even worse and would actually worsen the capacity of the state to carry out tasks that it would have to deal with at the beginning of the difficult, serious second ten-year-old of the 21st century. Returning to the point I quoted earlier: I do not want us to become Soviet Russia in the 1930s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U44	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The first question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U45	We will go to the second inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toom, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korb, Tarmo Tamm, Kalev Kallo, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassiliev, Enn Eesmaa, Olga Sõtnik and Priit Toobal on 9 October this year. The inquiry has been submitted in the area of government of the Minister for Agriculture and is number 198, according to the Minister for Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Ester Tuiksoo, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to present the content of the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Agriculture! On 9 October, 13 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Agriculture. Its content was that the Ministry of Agriculture has paid less pay to young mothers after coming from parental leave. This problem was brought to the public by the Commissioner for Equal Treatment through the media. In particular, we have been amazed at the Minister's attitude to the problem. First of all, he has confirmed in the media that he doesn't even know anything about it, that he doesn't want to open Pandora's box, that it would not be fair, and that there is no money to compensate these young mothers for such discrimination afterwards. No excuses or anything! True, the day after our inquiry, however, the authorities found a way to compensate for the loss of money for those women who had received less pay because they had become mothers. We have put seven questions to the Minister on this subject, as well as on close issues. It would be nice to hear the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U47	Thank you. Please answer the questions of the Riigikogu's speech chair to the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you for your inquiry into the fact that the Office of Agricultural Registers and Information revealed that returning to work from parental leave was paid 10% lower wages. This is a regrettable behaviour towards mothers who have returned from parental leave to the service by the PRIA. This is an exceptional case in government agencies and state agencies that manage the whole area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture. All institutions have confirmed that there are no exceptions to the salary allocation for workers returning from parental leave to work. When wages are changed, it is generally for all employees. As a general rule, the same tasks and the same salary that the employees had before they were on parental leave will continue. It is also worth noting that mothers with small children are increasingly using flexible working time and teleworking. At the Ministry of Agriculture, four mothers of small children are currently working part-time. However, I would like to point out that workers themselves should have more courage to stand up for their rights if they are to be unfairly asked to have their consent to a change of employment contract. Finding courage and making things public may not lead to the best solution. In this situation, those women returning from parental leave could have addressed directly to the Ministry of Agriculture and the problem would have been resolved immediately. Unfortunately, I learned of these problems with great delay and through the press. But now you will answer the questions you have asked. One: 'Do you think it's right to introduce gender quotas? " I consider it important that the duties of the post are performed by competent and noble workers, regardless of their sex, age, race, etc. On this basis, I do not consider the idea of establishing gender quotas to be justified in any way. The introduction of gender quotas would be unfair and even humiliating for workers with excellent skills and knowledge. If the only reason for employing a person is because of his sex, the person concerned feels uncomfortable. And that wouldn't be fair either. In addition, this would be extremely impractical as the Ministry of Agriculture and its administrative staff make up the vast majority of women and, if gender quotas are introduced, the competent female workers should be laid off and new male workers recruited. Secondly, what other tasks could you see for the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment? ' It is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs to propose new tasks to the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, and I would leave it to him. Third: 'What is the human resources policy of the Ministry for the past two years? What is the ratio between men and women? 'As of 9 October 2010, there were a total of 1852 administrative staff, of which 29% were men and 71% were women. As of 9 October 2011, the total number of administrative staff was 1845, of which 29% were men and 71% were women. As of 9 October 2012, the total number of administrative staff was 1832, of which 27% were men and 73% were women. Thus, a little more than a quarter of the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture's administration are made up of men and nearly three-quarters of women. The Commissioner has not drawn attention to the situation where 3/4 of the ministry and the entire area of government are women. I therefore conclude that the state of affairs is in line with the principles of equal treatment. Question 4: 'How many women have been promoted/recruited in the last two years since the post of head of department? ' In total, 152 leaders, including 74 women, have been in senior positions since the office of Head of Department, which is 49%. Over the past two years, eight heads of staff have been recruited above the head of department in the area of government, four of whom are women. Within the institution, 18 staff members, including 11 women, have been promoted from the post of head of department to a higher position, representing more than 60%. The Ministry of Agriculture currently has 13 departments, seven of them run by women. In this regard, I would like to point out that the selection of staff is based on uniform principles and that, in the case of management posts, the applicant's eligibility for the post is also assessed. A person with the most appropriate knowledge, skills, personal qualities and experience shall be selected for all posts. Gender, age, nationality, skin color and whatever else is definitely not playing any role. Question 5: "Which discriminatory agreements or restrictions do women still have under the administration of the Minister for Agriculture? ' There are no agreements or any other differences or restrictions which discriminate against women in any government institution or government body in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture. Question 6: "Does the Minister intend to find funds from next year's budget to pay for the loss of pay for women workers who have been discriminated against? ' To date, a total of EUR 14283 has been paid to 39 employees of the PRIA, which is an average of EUR 366 per employee. And seventhly, who do you think should apologize to these female workers for the situation that has developed? ' As far as I know, the Agricultural Registers and Information Office has publicly apologized to all these young women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U49	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U50	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister, I would like to know his opinion. In your opinion, shouldn't the Labour Inspectorate have the right to inspect salary terms? How do you feel about that? Would that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U51	This question, however, is not directly related to this question of inquiry. In my opinion, it is not very important which institution deals specifically with the subject. It is important that this issue is addressed. Really, there are problems in Estonian society; we cannot deny them. However, I owe a direct answer to whether it should be within the competence of the Labour Inspectorate or within the competence of another inspectorate. But it certainly needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U52	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U53	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering our questions. I'll ask for more. In your interview with the Postimees newspaper, true, it is not a press release, it is an interview, you say that such'sold agreements' are probably full of the state. Could you be more specific about what you mean by that? What forced agreements with contractors are still in place in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U54	If you have followed developments in Estonia in recent years, wages in the public sector decreased in the years of the crisis. This was achieved in agreement with the staff. Of course, the workers didn't like it. For all of us, there is no secret about this, and newspapers have also written about it, that very many employees in different ministries were forced to go on unpaid leave. It was born in agreement with the employer. In the Ministry of the Interior, this concerned the police, many other officials. Many local authorities sent their officials as well as teachers on unpaid leave for several days. It was written in the papers. I remember the Viljandi case, for example. Teachers in Sakala wrote that they did not agree that the local government would probably send them on unpaid leave for five days in a year. So in fact, during the crisis period, when the Estonian state was forced to cut employees' salaries, different ways of saving money were implemented. That is what I had in mind in my comment that, in fact, in those years, such agreements were concluded with a large number of workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U55	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U56	Dear Minister, I actually have two questions. I didn't hear it, but I hope you still condemn this practice as a minister. That, however, I would like to hear in order to write down the verbatim, if that is the case. But here's the question. Have you and your colleagues in the government discussed this? It is hardly only in your administration that this practice has taken place. Is there some sort of control report or something? Obviously, such cases are also known in the institutions that work for your colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U57	There were two questions. First of all, I'm going to repeat my second sentence of answer to you, you may not have gotten into the answer to the question. 'This is a regrettable behaviour towards mothers who have returned from parental leave to the service by the PRIA. ' So if you didn't hear it, I said it again. It's written in the verbatim sometimes. Secondly, it is not known to me that in the area of government of any other ministry, or in the area of administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, the parents who returned from parental leave would have been treated in the same way. In my opinion, this is a very exceptional case in the area of government of both the Estonian state and the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U58	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U59	Mr. Minister! In your last reply, you said that you did not know such cases. You can also conclude that this case, which has now come out in public, was known to you. But here's the question. You gave a very convincing speech in your reply on how bad that practice is. I wonder, unwittingly, that if it hadn't come to the public by chance, whether it would have been fixed in the PRIA at all, or whether this practice would have continued in the same spirit, because the Minister simply didn't know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U60	I don't think coming out of the open played any part here. This problem would have been a practical solution anyway. This solution, however, started in the Commissioner's office. If the information had reached the Ministry of Agriculture earlier, it would certainly have been solved without disclosure, as I said. The process was initiated by the Commissioner, as far as I can remember, and from there it also went public. It is undoubtedly very good that the press is following these processes. However, I believe that the state institutions too, if they receive a serious signal from officials who are harmed, will certainly do their duty and resolve such problems. Once again, workers themselves should also have more courage to react immediately. You don't have to accept forced terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U61	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U62	Minister of Agriculture! First of all, for the sake of the verbatim report, I would like to make it clear that both men and women, not just women or not just men, were sent on unpaid leave in Viljandi City for five days. Another thing is that by listening to the percentages of how many women and how many men work under you, your ministry can be seen as an example. But here's my question. Since this has unfortunately happened in one of your administration's offices, has it been determined whose proposal could have made such a thing happen in the first place? And if so, has this person, council or board been punished or simply brought to his attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U63	Yes, the decision concerning the remuneration arrangements during the cut-off period was the decision of the management of the PRIA itself. These regulations have now been amended and aligned with both laws and good practice. The attention of the management of the PRIA has, of course, been drawn to this, and I hope that such things will not happen again, at least in the realm of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U64	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U65	Good minister! It is well known that such agreements against women have been concluded in the past, and my question is this: does anyone apologise to these women and somehow compensate them for the loss of earnings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U66	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U67	I don't think, in general, we can really tell the difference here. In my opinion, both male and female workers should be treated equally here. During the crisis years, both men's and women's salaries were reduced. The explanation of the member of the Riigikogu regarding the city of Viljandi confirms that in the recent past, savings measures have affected both men and women in public service or in other occupations many have had to cope with lower wages. But I repeat: the loss of pay has been paid by the PRIA to all these female workers, and they have also been apologized.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U68	Dear Minister, As we know, neither bad nor good ideas fall out of the sky; they still have specific people behind them. Has anyone figured out who was behind this "genius"? What official suggested paying young mothers a 10% lower salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U69	I repeat, it was the leadership of the PRIA that decided this. It was evidently a collegial decision to pay a lower salary to the parents who returned from parental leave. This was not justified and the case has been resolved by today. As I said, after all, the loss of pay has been paid and apologized to all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U70	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U71	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Do you not know whether there has been discrimination in your ministry based on other features, such as nationality or native language or religious affiliation or any other characteristic? Unfortunately, in other areas, it tends to be that people are discriminated against for many reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U72	There is nothing to know to me that discrimination based on religion, sex, nationality or age has occurred. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture also employs very elderly people. I think there are no such cases either in the Ministry of Agriculture or in our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U73	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Ester Tuiksoo, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Agriculture! It is certainly a good thing to hear the solution to the problem directly from the Minister's mouth, not to read about it through the press. Today, the Minister's answers were promising and quite reasonable. I'm delighted. However, it remains to be bothered that such a crime has occurred in the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. Yes, I have also noticed economic developments in recent years, Mr Minister. I am familiar with them, and I am also aware that wage cuts have been needed and have been done. However, I am still of the opinion that these young mothers should be particularly valued, that they have undertaken to start a family in these difficult economic times and are still ready to come back to the labour market and contribute. It is all the more appalling to hear that it was decided to punish them, i.e. to discriminate against them by reducing their wages. I very much hope that there will never be such cases in Estonia again. I will bring you here, ladies and gentlemen, one more fact. Last week, a report prepared by the World Economic Forum was published to evaluate gender equality in countries and other similar indicators. Estonia has fallen backwards every year in this ranking of 130 countries. In 2008, Estonia was 37th, and in 2012 we have fallen to 60th place, embarrassing to read. In my opinion, there should be a great deal of knocking on the conscience of employers; Estonia must get out of this position. And, of course, the government, the ministers, also play a very important role in valuing women's work and in fair pay. I very much hope that such news about discrimination against Estonian young mothers will no longer be read from anywhere and that our authorities will draw serious conclusions from the sad example of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U75	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U76	Let's go to the next question. This is the third, bearing the number 202, is presented on 15 October and concerns debt restructuring and debt protection law. Reply by Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Peter Võsa, to introduce this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U77	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 15 October this year, we did indeed bring forward an inquiry into the law on debt restructuring and debt protection. It entered into force on 6 April 2011 and from that time until today 61 applications for debt restructuring have been submitted to the county courts, 51 of which have been refused by the court. Ten applications have therefore been accepted. Timo Ligi, Head of the Working Group of the Ministry of Justice, has pointed out in his work on the practical benefits of the concept of analysis of the effects of legislation that, according to conservative calculations, the staff costs involved in developing one medium draft are ca 370000 kroons, i.e. approximately 24000 euros, plus an additional 106000 kroons, i.e. almost 7000 euros, for processing and adopting the draft in the Riigikogu. The Centre Party Group considers that the development of populist laws with taxpayers' money, which are not in line with the purpose of the law, is not ethical and reasonable. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. I'm sure he'll read them himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U78	Thank you. I would ask the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal to answer the question of the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First a small general comment and then I will answer your questions. Before replying to the question, I would draw the attention of the members of the Centre Party Group to two issues, the need to highlight which is the result of the reference in your letter to the unethical and unreasonable nature of the laws being developed for taxpayers' money. First of all, I would like to stress that the draft law on debt restructuring and debt protection was not initiated by the Government of the Republic. It was initiated by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. The draft law was prepared by the working group set up by the Riigikogu's Legal Affairs Committee; it was not developed by the Ministry of Justice. I would also like to highlight the fact that, in the final vote on the bill of 17 November 2010, it was adopted as a law by 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 1 against. All the members of the Estonian Central Party who were present voted in favour of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now answer your questions. The first question: 'What is the number of applications submitted to the courts for debt restructuring last year and this year? Please state the reasons for submitting the application in the form of a figure: housing debts, bank debts, over-the-counter loans, telephone debts, fines, other debts. " Since the Act entered into force on 6 April 2011 until 19 October 2012, a total of 74 applications for debt restructuring have been submitted to the county courts; the final solution has been announced in 62 parts. There are 16 legal appeals in the district courts, the final settlement has been declared in 14 cases, three legal appeals have been filed in the Supreme Court and no effective decisions have been made. More specifically, in 2011 23 applications were submitted to the county courts for the restructuring of debts, 8 applications were submitted to the district courts and 1 to the Supreme Court. In 2012, 51 applications have been submitted to the county courts, 7 to the district courts, 2 to the Supreme Court. What are the reasons for submitting an application for debt transformation is, as a figure, rather difficult to make out on the basis of the distribution you have proposed. This would also not adequately reflect the reality of the situation. The difficulties arise from the fact that the application may be due to several different debts and one of the main reasons cannot be highlighted. For some applications, the debt that is being restructured has not been properly identified at all. Moreover, the treatment of consumer credit agreements varies considerably in the case-law. In certain cases, it is specified that it is a mortgage or other such, in some cases there is no such specification. In the case of fast-track loans, the fact that the data provided by the consumer makes it difficult to state whether or not it is a fast-track credit. Some case-laws state the name of the creditor, but it is difficult to state whether it is a fast-track loan or another loan on this basis alone. In more than half of the cases, the reason for the application for restructuring has been not only one debt but several different debts. Most of the reasons for submitting the application, which could be identified during the analysis, were linked to debts incurred in the execution of credit agreements, with about one third of the settlements referring to housing loans. In about one fifth of cases, the debt was at least partly due to the credit card contract. Debts arising from guarantee contracts were mentioned as a reason for the application in almost a quarter of cases. In some cases, debts to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board were also mentioned as a reason. The second question: "What are the five main grounds for refusing to accept applications for debt restructuring? ' The five grounds most frequently used by the courts for refusing to accept the application for the conversion of debts are as follows: the approval or execution of the debt restructuring plan proposed by the debtor is unlikely; the debtor has not taken the necessary steps to achieve the conversion of the debt out of court; the application or annexes thereto do not comply with the requirements of the law; the debtor has, intentionally or with serious negligence, provided substantially incorrect or incomplete information on his assets and income, creditors or his obligations; and, lastly, the debtor is not in default or is manifestly in excess of what is necessary without the debt restructuring. The third question: 'Why did the Ministry of Justice not support the draft law launched by the Central Party in 2010, which would have laid down the same rules for home loans as for example in Sweden? The principle that a home loan is also considered to have been extinguished when the home loan is transferred to the bank would help to prevent the debt burden on families who have lost their homes. ' The Ministry of Justice has expressed its position on the draft law amending the Law of Property Act and the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party in respect of 578 in the opinion of the Government of the Republic on the draft. I believe it is available to you. If it isn't, I can give it to you after you answer the question, I have it with me. The main reason why the Government of the Republic, on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, did not support this earlier draft was the draft inconsistency with the Constitution. This did not take into account the fundamental principles of the Estonian legal order and the implementation of the proposed changes could have been impossible. Attention should be paid to the fact that it is already possible to conclude mortgage-backed loan contracts under the current legislation, which, in the event of default, will result in the sale of the mortgage-loaded immovable property at auction and with the proceeds of the sale being deemed to satisfy the creditor's claim to the full extent. Why banks don't offer such a product, you'll probably have to ask the banks. Question 4: 'Please give your assessment of the law on debt restructuring and debt protection. ' It is very difficult for the Ministry of Justice to take a stand now on the law on debt restructuring and debt protection, as the law has been in force for such a short time that it does not allow any particular conclusions to be drawn. Finally, the optimal period for analysing the law is estimated by an earlier document to be about three years. So after two or three years, it would probably be optimal to start evaluating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U80	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U81	Minister of Justice! According to the Swedish Riksdag Research Service, banks operating in Sweden have such a rule that home loans are normally considered to be paid and the borrower's liabilities are terminated when the bank takes over the guarantee. You mentioned in one reply that it is the concern of the banks in Estonia to ask the banks. But wouldn't it still be more appropriate to introduce the same rules of law in Estonia as in Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U82	As I said today in response to an inquiry on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, such opportunities actually exist. Once again, I can claim from the press that I cannot say how accurate they are, but I have glimpsed the news that, recently, our banks have been discussing such an idea. Obviously, as a person who knows economic life and also understands its fiscal side, you will not be surprised that, in fact, such an agreement would simply mean a more expensive loan to which the same business risk has been calculated. But there are basically no legislative obstacles to that. This would simply mean that people would have a more expensive mortgage and a corresponding risk into the price of all such loans. Why banks do not offer such a product or when they intend to start offering it, you should probably ask the banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U83	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U84	Mr. Minister! From your introductory speech, I have discovered one fact: that the opposition has acted foolishly once it has supported the coalition's drafts. We have been trying to improve ourselves here in the meantime, and a couple of '51 votes' drafts were not supported, but in the future we may have to be even better. But now to today's subject. The daily newspaper said that nearly 700 families have already lost their homes. Doesn't that make you think that maybe you should change that law somehow to make it more "human"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U85	I dare say that the drafts that fell out of the Riigikogu because some legislators chose not to vote actually served the purpose of making people's lives easier. The desire was to make the matrimonial property register more conveniently available. So I dare to suggest that we choose more carefully laws that you do not support, because in this particular case you did a disservice to people. That's one. But, of course, I understand the relevant subtext. As regards the amendment of the law at issue in the inquiry, once again: the principles of good lawmaking provide that legislation will be somewhat slower in the future. This also means that everything will be discussed with the various stakeholders and stakeholders. With regard to the drafting of this draft law, it can be said that the working group has been working together, the subject has been discussed. But another principle: if the law has been in force in practice, then a follow-up analysis should be carried out as to whether the desired effect has been achieved, whether the objective pursued has been achieved. I think a follow-up analysis of this law is still ahead. This assessment is probably the right time in the near future. It will then be clear whether the law meets its objectives, and then the legislator and other parties will also be able to contribute if something needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U86	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U87	Good minister! First of all, I do not agree with you at all that the price of the loan money could rise indefinitely if we in Estonia had European lending conditions for operating banks. But I will go ahead on the subject raised by Kalev Kallo and ask: how does the coalition intend to help 700 families who have become homeless because banks have evicted them from their homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U88	Once again, I dare say that I think we both understand that if the loan is issued under different conditions, the interest rate will be higher for those loans with a base that may be riskier for the lender. This risk has to be shared in some way and is likely to be shared between all parties. That's one. Secondly, banks operate in completely European conditions in Estonia. As I said before, on the legislative side, there are no obstacles to the provision of the loans that you and Kadri Samson spoke about. Why they don't offer these loans, I don't know. Maybe they'll be offered in the future. It is probably worth turning to the banks and asking them. Thirdly, there are certainly mechanisms to deal with all the people who are in trouble, and they are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U89	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair, Kadri Samson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This question concerned a specific draft law that was adopted because of a resounding title, but the content of which turned out to be something else. The law on debt restructuring and debt protection adopted under the leadership of Ken-Mart Vaher has not helped many people in need. I would like to begin immediately with the matter that the Minister accused us of: that the ambassadors of the Central Party also voted in favour of this bill. Indeed, this draft was preceded by the amendment of the Law of Property Act and the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Centre Party. Our proposal was as follows: if a person has taken a home loan, made a deposit and paid a good monthly payment for it, but then his family is in a very difficult situation with a very large number of people, because no one could foresee unemployment and he could no longer pay his payments, then the situation should be regulated so that the bank takes away the housing, but this also makes up for the loan. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in Estonia in times of crisis. In Estonia, this has meant that if the real estate price has fallen significantly and a bank that has not had to negotiate has put home a quick sale and received a much lower amount than the loan balance, then there is still a 'loan tail' to be paid to the borrowers. But since there was no guarantee, the interest rate is much higher. We've had to pay off our loan with a consumer loan, pay for a so-called dead horse. Our proposal passed the first reading in the Riigikogu and then it was left in the drawer. It was said that something much more comprehensive would be done, which would also help fast borrowers to lease borrowers to people in trouble with all kinds of loans. The text of the draft law on 23 pages was drafted, with a further 29 pages of explanatory memorandum. In all of this large text array, the law has left only a sounding title of the law, which has been of very little use to borrowers. So Estonia should certainly think carefully about how to learn as much as possible from the crisis. One lesson could be what the Finnish state learned from the Lama: that a loan boom should not be encouraged. The Minister mentioned here that if we imposed the same rules in Estonia as Swedish banks have in Sweden, this would mean a more expensive loan for us. But on the other hand, it would mean controlling the boom for our home borrowers. The banks had no risk at their own time, and they encouraged the increase in the price of real estate to be driven by the more one family takes out a loan, the greater the bank's profits. If, however, the price of one unfortunate family's home falls below the initial purchase price due to the fall in the real estate market, the consequences will only be borne by the borrower, and the banks have not had that concern. Setting Swedish rules in Estonia would keep our real estate market away from these American mountains next time. So, under the leadership of Ken-Mart Vaher, we've experimented with the adoption of a great dragon law, and it hasn't helped. You could mention a number of other IRL laws that have not helped, but whose headlines are well advertised. On the other hand, we are likely to emerge from the crisis, people are about to overcome the depression and are ready to take out loans again. Fairer rules should be established for the following loan generations, such as those applicable to Nordic banks in the Nordic countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U91	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U92	Dear colleagues, after my hammer strike, I ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to speak in a free microphone to register! Speaking chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Everything in life happens, good and bad. Last week I was at two very beautiful events. Near Narva, a cornerstone was laid for two new companies. According to the investment plan, they will start operating as early as June-July next year, with 40 to 50 people employed there. And this is just the beginning, because five other companies - foreign investors - have already bought the land alongside these companies and the order of those who would like to come is very, very long. The week before last, I organised a meeting here in the Riigikogu with investors from Canada, the Netherlands, Germany and Russia. This is one project, which is expected to have an investment of EUR 120 million and jobs will come from 300 to 400, with a very good salary. So there's good. Why did I come here to talk about this? Because these new companies are all opening up at the Ida-Viru Industrial Park. This is the land we finally got from the country about two years ago. Why, after all? Because we started applying for it five or five and a half years ago. If, purely because of the tantrum, this process had not stretched for three years, these few dozen companies would have already been standing there near Narva. That's a clear trend. Many of the Russian entrepreneurs I have had to meet in Estonia and Russia would like to open a logistics centre or even an industry in Estonia. They are interested in the opportunity to become part of the European Union. So much for the good. I already mentioned that the process was slow. I also have concerns that someone might be able to stop all of this. In fact, a few days ago, I met a man who was working on the construction of a new company near Narva. We were talking business about the future, but he had a question. While living in a hotel, he accidentally turned on the television and knew how to do it at a time when a show came from a channel on a Russian site that had all this dirt, all the crap that could be brought together from a large territory. I will tell you honestly, as things are: the man was completely shocked. He knew, of course, everything that was said there, because Russian news is telling us in full public. But for the first time, he saw how, even compared to the infamous NTV channel, all this dirt and disgust were put together in one show. He wondered if he made a mistake when he had to invest his money in Estonia, because it is a clear incitement to hatred; it is just a barbarity. I can't call it anything else. So our decisions depend very much. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs had decided five years ago to establish an industrial park near Narva, we would now have 200, perhaps even 500 more jobs than we do now. If the wish to come from Russia to Estonia to bring money here and create jobs here ever ends, and if we start to think about why it has ended, remember what I was saying right now. TV shows like this are made for some kind of lumpen audience, it's an inspiration for very low instincts. And those who do such programmes should think about how this will affect a large number of people who are able to cooperate with Estonia for our common goals. They can only give it up because someone's doing the kind of work they do on some of our TV channels. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U94	Thank you. Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U95	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, So what if there's so little of us left here? This free microphone is intended to enable members of the Riigikogu to express their concerns and joys. One journalist once asked me whether more members of the coalition should be present during the free microphone in order to listen to all the issues we opposition members and free members of the Riigikogu are talking about. I guess it'll stay on their conscience. But I would also like to talk today about what I have been talking about lately about the same border problems, i.e. the transport of fuel and illegal taxation by the Tax and Customs Board. I assumed that if I speak about this in the free microphone of the Riigikogu, if I make inquiries to the Chancellor of Justice, if I ask questions to the Ministry, if the Chancellor of Justice has already done his analysis and proposed to the Ministry to amend the law to improve the situation, then something will change in Estonia. Alas, nothing has changed! I went to Russia again last week and asked customs authorities whether something had changed in the fuel transport regulations that allowed fuel to be brought into the standard fuel tank. They politely said that nothing had changed. Everything's still happening to whatever they want. I was very impressed by David Vseviov's statement that he was reminded of the whole situation in the current Estonian country in the 1930s in Bolshevik Russia. I was amazed at how customs officials can say that only their rights apply at the border, and how citizens' rights are trampled underfoot and the Constitution is violated. I didn't think it would take so long to make one law, I didn't think that the government would sit behind the curtains and sometimes only peek from what was happening in Estonia. I met people two weeks ago. It started with a small ad that brought together a little over a hundred people and demanded that the Government of the Republic be approached in order to improve the situation. This time I didn't agree to it, I wasn't ready to do a local visit and collect signatures. This time, at a meeting two weeks later, hundreds of people came across a small message. They came to Võru City Square before the county government to protest against the government's omissions and the actions of officials at the border-customs point, especially their arbitrary interpretations. We made an appeal to the Government of the Republic, which, among other things, wanted the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the head of the Tax and Customs Board to take responsibility for everything that is happening at the border. What actually happened in the city of Võru surprised me positively. If, in the past, I have tried to discuss certain issues with citizens, people have not met so quickly in hundreds of ways. So this was now a problem that touched them very closely. They will be harmed, and the Estonian state will hurt, as I have already said. I believe that every member of the Riigikogu will receive this address, and I promise that I will send it to everyone. This appeal will also be received by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. And I believe that if I turn to the Ministry and the Tax and Customs Board, they'll be willing to meet the same people who came to the field. And if nothing changes, in the near future, I will come here again with a proposal to amend the law. Officials must also understand that the law must be observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-05_U96	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm shutting down the free microphone. Thank you, good fellows, today's session is closed. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 4:27 p.m.
