ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First of all, the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law, Ken-Marti Vaher; second, the Act on funded pensions, the State Pension Insurance Act and, in this connection, the Act amending other laws, the Government of the Republic represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U3	Thank you. I have adopted two draft laws on behalf of the management board and if they comply with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the management board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: The Board of the Riigikogu has registered the departure of Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas and Lembit Kaljuvee from the faction of the Estonian Central Party. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans, initiated on 4 April, a commission on culture; second, by the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu on 5 April on the appointment of the "Deputy Advisor-Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice," the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 5 April Estonia presented its views on the draft financial framework for the European Union's 2014-20 external action instruments and appointed the Foreign Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. April 26th at 4 p.m. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 91 delegates registered as present, 10 missing. Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks and I'll put it to the vote. Please vote! 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one was against, 1 member is impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Eiki Nestori, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Kajar Lemberi, Kalev Kotkase, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Karel Rüütli, Rannar Vasiliyev, Rein Randveri, Sven Mikser and Urve Palo on 20 February of this year regarding the inconsistency with the Constitution (No 123). My colleague, Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U5	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! Good afternoon to everyone who hasn't seen today. The questioning of the Social Democratic Party Group concerns the contradiction of Article 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act with the Constitution. Let me introduce you to some background. On February 15th of this year's ERR "The Spectator" was shown in the Hillar Koitla case. Koitla demanded moral compensation for Joseph Laiksole, who caused the death of Hillar Koitla's parents in a car accident. It was pointed out that, both in this case and in many other cases, the Court has based its decision on § 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act, according to which, in the event of the death of a person or the obligation to compensate for damage caused to him or her by serious bodily injury or damage to his or her health, persons close to a deceased or injured person may also claim compensation for non-material damage where exceptional circumstances justify the payment of compensation. At the same time, § 25 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to compensation for moral and material damage unlawfully caused to him by anyone. This constitutional right, at least in its substance, seems to be a fundamental right for the members of our group, without the reservation of the law, which can, in essence, be limited only to another right or freedom enshrined in the Constitution. The law cannot impose conditions or interfere in any other way in the realisation of this right unless the Constitution itself directly empowers it. After all, § 11 of the Constitution states that rights and freedoms may be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. These restrictions must be necessary in a democratic society and must not distort the nature of the rights and freedoms that are restricted. Paragraph 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act, on the other hand, establishes a very broad possibility of interpretation and a disproportionate conditional limitation, i.e. the identification of exceptional circumstances justifying the payment of compensation, in the case of a fundamental right reserved directly by that law. For example, § 134 (2) of the same Act, which provides for the obligation to compensate for damage for deprivation of liberty, bodily injury, damage to health or any other violation of personal rights, requires a reasonable amount of money to be paid to compensate non-material damage. Such a provision is certainly without prejudice to the constitutional right to claim damages, but points to the need to respect the principle of reasonableness when determining the amount. There are no further conditions or restrictions on the claim for moral damage. It is certainly possible to discuss who these various paragraphs are addressed to. Paragraph 2 refers directly to the persons against whom the unlawful act was committed, paragraph 3, on the other hand, of the loved ones to whom the unlawful act could have caused suffering, as was the case with Mr Koitla, who had suffered from the "Spectator," whose parents died in a car accident. § 25 of the Constitution leaves everyone's right to the circle of persons who have caused suffering by anyone as wide as possible. It can be understood from the text of § 25 of the Constitution that the exercise of the right may take place, for example, by agreement or as determined by the court. In accordance with § 146 of the Constitution, the Court of Justice shall exercise jurisdiction in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The wording of Section 143 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act is clearly contrary to § 25 of the Constitution, so its implementation under § 3 (1) of the Constitution is not possible. To understand the complex legal structure used by the courts when refusing to grant compensation for moral damage, and to find out whether this provision of the Law of Obligations Act could be contrary to the Constitution, we addressed the Chancellor of Justice with two questions. Firstly, whether the relevant provision of the Law of Obligations Act is in conflict with the Constitution and, secondly, if so, whether we could expect the Chancellor of Justice to propose that this provision be brought into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U6	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Now, please, the honourable Chancellor of Justice of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'm going to take the opportunity to say a few words about questions at all. Since replying to an inquiry must not be regarded as political action according to the Constitution and by virtue of the status of Chancellor of Justice, I always directly return an inquiry of a political nature, which essentially requires the Chancellor of Justice to intervene in politics, to publish a political position or to assess the actions of a politician. The Chancellor of Justice does not have jurisdiction for this. Consequently, I have returned one previous inquiry precisely because of its clearly day-to-day nature. However, I will try to use the form of inquiry to be a cooperation partner for Members who, as far as possible, will explain the different rules of the law in force and the theoretical concepts. At the same time, account must be taken of the narrow timeline and complexity of the issues arising from the regulation of enquiries. Inevitably, this concept is an initial one, and this is also the case with the very complex issue addressed in the current inquiry. But to the point. The question of the possible incompatibility with the Constitution of § 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act was raised on the basis of a specific case. I would point out, firstly, that since there have been legal proceedings in this case and the Chancellor of Justice is not allowed to take a position on the outcome of a particular case, I am not clear on the case. I also stress once again that my position is still provisional, given these narrow time frames. I therefore confine myself to the fundamental question of whether it can be assumed that the regulation of § 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act, according to which the in-kind damage caused by the death of a person to his or her loved ones must be compensated only in exceptional circumstances, is compatible with the Constitution. In other words, I am debating whether it is constitutional that loved ones are compensated only in exceptional circumstances, not in any case. As we know, according to § 25 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to compensation for moral and material damage caused to him or her unlawfully by anyone. I will continue to use the notion of non-material damage as a synonym for moral damage. § 25 of the Constitution does not contain an explicit reservation of the law. With regard to the reservation of § 25 of the Constitution, I will also briefly address its historical development. As is apparent from the materials of the Constitutional Assembly, that provision contained a sentence that the method and procedure of compensation is laid down by law. It was deleted on the ground that the court could then decide on compensation for damages before the relevant law entered into force. At the same time, the legislator's power to regulate the conditions and procedures for compensation for damage was confirmed. This means that the wording of the provision as a fundamental right without reservation by the law was not an informed choice of the authors of the Constitutional text, but a consequence of other considerations. The Constitutional Expertise Committee also proposed to amend the wording of § 25 of the Constitution in such a way that it would, without doubt, be subject to a simple reservation of the law, allowing the legislator to develop a flexible right of damages, as is normal in countries governed by the continental European legal system. It is therefore widely held that the provision must be interpreted as a basic right with a simple reservation of law, the restriction of which is justified by any objective which is not contrary to the Constitution. I therefore point out in advance that the legislator has a relatively wide margin of discretion in the formulation of this fundamental right. At the same time, there is also the view that there is, in principle, a justification for the breach of § 25 of the Constitution, even if, aside from the development of the provision, it is still regarded as a fundamental right without reservation by the law. Personally, I don't think it's very reasonable to put this development aside. In other words, it is possible to regard § 25 of the Constitution as a basic right with a simple reservation of law. However, I would point out that restricting the fundamental right without the reservation of the law is not excluded. A violation of such a fundamental right can be justified by another fundamental right or by the principle of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has found that compensation for non-material damage caused to loved ones only in exceptional circumstances is based on the need to ensure that the person causing the damage is reasonably foreseeable of the consequences of his or her conduct and to avoid making him or her insolvent. In essence, such an argument could be attributed to the free self-realisation resulting from § 19 (1) of the Constitution, which as a fundamental right would in principle also be acceptable in justifying the violation of the fundamental right without reservation of the law. Of course, free self-realisation is already limited by the Constitution to the obligation to respect and respect the rights and freedoms of other people and to comply with the law. In doing so, the legislator has an obligation to consider the rights of individuals in the creation of private regulation, but it also has a certain margin of discretion in finding a balanced solution, as the lack of respect for or disregard for the rights of others may be a matter of great varying degrees in the light of the circumstances of the particular situation. Therefore, it is also acceptable to link the liability for damages with how much blame is being made on the perpetrator. I agree with the members of the Riigikogu that the application of § 125 of the Constitution cannot be excluded from the non-material damage caused to third parties, including loved ones, by the cause of death. At the same time, the legislator should be able to draw a line between the loved ones of the deceased and other persons who have suffered non-material damage. I find that, in certain difficult cases, the person causing the damage must certainly compensate for the non-material damage caused to the loved ones of the deceased. What are these difficult cases or exceptional situations, it should be settled in the case-law and you, the honourable legislators, can already specify that. However, I believe that certain restrictions on compensation for non-material damage are also likely to be justified. As regards the wide margin of discretion given to the court in defining exceptional circumstances, it cannot be brought directly against the legislator, given, on the other hand, the fact that the Supreme Court has repeatedly considered regulation incompatible with the Constitution, which does not allow consideration and therefore, in certain cases, leads to a disproportionate breach of the fundamental right. Thus, in my preliminary opinion, the legislator is unlikely to have exceeded the limit allowed by consideration of the fundamental rights resulting from § 19 and § 25 of the Constitution and acting in the opposite direction in these circumstances. Finally, I would point out once again that if the members of the Riigikogu are convinced that § 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act needs to be clarified, that is also possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U8	Thank you very much, Chancellor. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U9	Let's go to the next question. This is the members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luise, Lembit Kaljuvee, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toomi on 5 March in the s. a request for information on the maintenance of state roads submitted (No 130). Mr. Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U10	On 5 March 2012, ladies and gentlemen, we sent an inquiry to Mr Juhan Parts, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The subject of the inquiry is the maintenance of state roads. With regard to this question, we have six questions to which we would like answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U11	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the honourable Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U12	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Inquiries! First, before I answer your question, I'll give you a few comments. As regards the audit report of the National Audit Office 'The work of roads and supervision over them', in which the National Audit Office mainly dissects the activities of the Road Administration, the Ministry considers that the problems presented in this audit must be taken extremely seriously by both the Public Road Administration and the Ministry in the organisation and regulation of maintenance work. If you read this audit report, we can see that there are differences of opinion between the auditor and the audited, i.e. between the National Audit Office and the Road Administration, but in many ways the Ministry of Economic Affairs shares the views of the National Audit Office, and in recent years we have been working on finding solutions to several of the problems presented in the audit. The Ministry has made clear the requirements of the state of the roads so that they are unambiguous to everyone. The new road condition requirements entered into force on 1 November 2011. Secondly, we have merged the state-owned road maintenance companies into one company called AS Eesti Teed, because in winter care, the Ministry also considers competition to be weak and there are also few possibilities for outsourcing. The merger of five companies belonging to the State also ensures a stronger position of the State as a guarantor of competitive conditions. The tasks of AS Eesti Teed are to provide road maintenance in the areas, to possess and dispose of the national strategic winter care reserve, to act as a road maintenance coordinator in emergency and emergency situations, and to test new technologies and contract conditions in the field of road maintenance. In the 2012 Road Administration Work Plan, the task is to develop a new road maintenance contract and public procurement conditions and to implement the procedures for monitoring road maintenance already developed in 2011. A number of changes have been made to the road maintenance arrangements since 2005. It must be admitted that not all of them have produced the desired results. In the area of road maintenance management, we have reorganised the Road Administration in 2009 and incorporated it into the car register centre in order for road safety and road maintenance to be dealt with by the same authority. From 2009, all road maintenance will be carried out on a contractual basis. Previously, there have been no more "road governments" in existence in the transitional period since 1998. The Road Administration has been one institution since 2011, in other words, the Road Administration should also be able to operate uniformly throughout the territory of Estonia in the area of road maintenance. The 15 previously separate institutions (terrestrial road administrations) and the current four regional road administrations have been merged into a single legal state institution. In the years 2008-2009, the government planned to auction tea-care companies in the country. We gave up this plan because there was insufficient competition in road maintenance and the interest in these five countries' companies was very low in those years. Due to the lack of competition, the existence and implementation of the so-called adequate sanctions referred to in the audit of the National Audit Office has also been problematic. Sanctions must not lead to the contract being interrupted, otherwise there would also be a break in road maintenance, which should be continuous for 365 days a year. This was also one of the reasons why we formed one of the five state companies operating in this field, one of the largest public limited company Eesti Teed. As I mentioned in the introduction, we specified the requirements for road status in 2011. On the basis of the conclusions of the final audit report, a further review of the status requirements is planned. In the case of winter road maintenance, it is true that the snowy winters of last year and the previous year brought out a number of additional weaknesses. In summary, we believe that the audit of the National Audit Office is useful for the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as it gives a third-party view of shortcomings in road maintenance and monitoring of road condition requirements. It is clear that fundamental changes, monitoring and, together, sanctions for non-compliance must be better ensured in this respect. Just in case, it's like the view on the other side. The overall situation of road maintenance is also, to a certain extent, shown by the assessment of road users, which is regularly ordered by the Road Administration. The last user's assessment was then carried out by Emor, the Market Research Company and the Estonian Research Centre Division. On this basis, I can say that 69% of respondents assessed the winter state of state roads with a score of 'good' or'very good'. This figure was 65% in 2008, 69% in 2009. In the summer survey, 88% of those who assessed the condition of road maintenance as good or very good were 79% in 2008 and 23% in 2009. Of course, these are just sociological surveys, but they show the'second view' that there are things in road maintenance that can be significantly improved. However, they also show that it would certainly be premature to paint the whole situation very, very black. The second question: 'The report points out that road maintenance costs have increased significantly over the period 2006-2010, and this is due to a reduction in competition caused by the Road Administration itself by its own activities, which have introduced conditions favourable to existing road carers in the field of procurement. What justification does the Road Administration give for such action? ' The answers of the Road Administration are given in the audit report. The Road Administration justifies the increase in costs with several objective factors, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs agrees with the conclusions of the audit of the National Audit Office that the cost of road maintenance has also increased due to a lack of competition. Until 2009, price indices that were written into contracts, which, at the same time as the general market prices increased, also increased the prices of contracts, certainly also had an impact. The Road Administration has been tasked with developing new contractual principles this year, and AS Eesti Teed has already implemented these new principles in the case of contracts recently concluded with AS Eesti Teed. A key issue of the new principles is that all possible work within the framework of public contracts must be carried out under market conditions. That's one. Secondly, monitoring mechanisms need to be significantly strengthened and, if necessary, guaranteed in the agreements with the carer, as many supervision mechanisms also depend heavily on regulatory requirements for carers. The specific question we are currently discussing in the ministry is how much it makes sense to allow so-called maintenance repairs in the framework of regular maintenance contracts. This is one topic where the positions of the National Audit Office and the Road Administration differ numerically. I am thinking about the extent to which maintenance repairs are feasible, given the real state of our roads, and to what extent it is reasonable to impose an absolute requirement that all conservation reforms be organised annually through public procurement. The third question: 'State control is concerned that a very large number of road maintenance procurements have been carried out where the only bidder declared to be the winner of the procurement without any substantial price competition. For whom is it in the interest of such procurement? ' As has been said, there is no doubt that the lack of competition for public road maintenance procurement is a problem. This complaint essentially involves accusing the Public Road Administration of a systemic breach of the Public Procurement Act, which should have been accompanied by frequent complaints from economic operators and procedures for monitoring compliance with the law by the relevant authorities and by the corresponding administrative and judicial decisions. Although the audit has referred to a few episodes, the Ministry cannot draw such general conclusions on this basis. At the same time, it is clear that this issue still needs a serious analysis in the interests of future procurement. In the case of procurement, the Public Road Administration must, above all, take into account the requirements of the state of the road and pursue the objective of ensuring competence without imposing too restrictive conditions on the participation of companies. This general approach is shared by the Ministry. The position of the Public Road Administration has usually been that they really have the responsibility that a company that wins or can take part in a competition has sufficient experience and sufficient technical capacity. However, we must also make sure that there are no subjective restrictions on participation in procurement documents. It is clear that the new management of the Road Administration must also take care of road maintenance contracts and previous procurements, one by one, in all regions. The fourth question: 'The state control report also finds that winter side road maintenance is problematic, where public transport for passengers and schoolchildren is not guaranteed a safe journey. How do you estimate money savings at the expense of people's lives? " There must certainly be no saving for human life, even on secondary roads. Public transport vehicles shall be provided with safe driving. Most of the secondary roads are maintained at mode level 1, but also with minimum requirements for both snow thickness and adhesion. The Road Administration must require maintenance companies to comply with specific status requirements. Before 2011/2012. There have been cases of misinterpretation of status requirements in the winter of 2008. In the case of status level 1, the work can only start after 36 hours and in the meantime the requirements will not have to be met. In order to avoid misleading interpretations, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has specified the corresponding status requirements. Ten centimeters thick snow is the maximum permitted level one. Question 5: 'It is considered that maintenance of bridges and overpasses is a serious problem, which is not done properly and which leads to the rapid breakdown of expensive engineering and engineering objects. Why is it not possible to ensure proper maintenance of bridges and overpasses in Estonia? ' The Road Administration has an obligation to review the need for repair and maintenance of bridges and overpasses. For the following maintenance contracts, the Public Road Administration has specified the composition of the maintenance of bridges and the Road Administration will certainly have to review the arrangements for the repair of bridges. From a budgetary point of view, we can say that both bridges and overpasses are covered by a separate budget line. Question 6: According to the report, the tender price in Viljandi County was 1.9 million kroons per year at the time of the conclusion of the contract due to the non-qualification of the cheaper bidder, i.e. approximately 13.6 million kroons, i.e. approximately 870000 euros, over the entire 7-year contract period. The reason for the non-qualification of the competing tenderer was initially the non-acceptance of Finnish diplomas certifying construction education and the fact that the three devices were not indicated in the tender documents at the place required, although this information was available in the tender documents. Has this particular case been investigated in more detail, and what conclusions have been reached? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that this issue needs a complex approach. Further measures must be found to ensure that, in addition to AS, the guarantor of competition from the state, Estonian Tee will also have other competition. If procurement areas are reduced by road grouping or by keeping some of the resources under state control, a better outcome can be achieved. In particular, in the case of a contract organised in 2008 by Viljandi County, it should be noted that there is a decision of the appeal committee of the Office for Public Procurement. On 4 January 2008, this independent appeal committee has rejected the dispute between the Finnish company Destia (formerly Tieliikelaitos) in the public procurement of the Pärnu Road Government's state roads in Viljandi County in 2008-2015. The appeal panel considered that the contracting authority correctly justified the non-qualification of the opponent by not including all necessary repair equipment in the list of machinery and equipment to be operated. With regard to the qualifications of the specialists to be implemented, the appeal committee considers that the contracting authority has wrongly motivated the opponent against the lack of compliance with the conditions for qualification of the specialists implementing the decision to withdraw from the procurement procedure. In addition to the above, there is also an order of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 6 November 2008, according to which the Finnish company Destia OY submitted an application on 5 November 2008 regarding the waiver of the complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U13	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When the National Audit Office reported an audit report on the maintenance of Estonian state roads, there was a controversy about how to increase competition in public procurement. One of the suggestions made by the National Audit Office was to reduce the territory to be maintained, i.e. to cut down the existing ones. How do you feel about such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U15	I'd rather definitely support it, but a certain 'but'. It is logical that if we reduce the volume to a critically low level, the sum of the prices of the units concerned will probably be higher than that of the current established territory. After all, maintenance of state roads is usually ordered by county. This has been the result of the tradition that began when road maintenance was carried out by the respective public authorities. Smaller territories are also used in Harju County and some other counties. I think that, in the case of new contracts to be awarded now, road maintenance contracts have been concluded, depending on the specific conditions, for a period of 6 to 8 years, also considering a reduction in the procurement unit. But there is clearly a risk that critical mass will decrease and that the price of the unit will be higher. But it certainly deserves to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U16	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Don't you think one of the weaknesses in the maintenance of state roads is the supervision of these roads? Roads are supervised by the Road Administration and, in the meantime, if the Road Administration acted more as a travel agency, who had time to supervise it? How are you going to solve this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U18	First of all, as far as supervision is concerned, the National Audit Office also indicated that nothing has been done since 2005. One opinion has been that there should also be public supervision of the state of roads and the maintenance of roads, which would not depend on the Road Administration, which is in fact the contracting authority for works on behalf of the state in this area. At that time, the Riigikogu also adopted a law in which it intended to put this function in the Police and Border Guard Board. I have to admit that in this regard, the Police and Border Guard Board has probably been rather modest because of the limited resources available, and I mean national supervision. I think it's worth doing. The condition of roads, especially given a certain risk criterion, should be subject to national supervision. We certainly cannot again entrust this task to the Road Administration in order to avoid conflicts of interest. Otherwise, it would also be a state-supervised operator, and it is out of the question! As regards the supervision of roads within the Road Administration, it is quite clear that the situation needs to be improved here. In the course of this audit, the Road Administration has introduced a new road monitoring regime, which is very thorough, very detailed. And in order to ensure that maintenance diaries are completed and different maintenance operations are carried out, technological options are applied using GPS to assess how many road maintenance operations have been carried out, etc. I'm sure there's a way to make things better. As regards the remark on these ski trips, of course, this is a worrying matter. I'm sure we need to find a new top management for the Road Administration. Behind many of these things, which is also the reason for the report of the National Audit Office, is the unupdated working culture. We need to defend our interests much more rigorously, i.e. the interests of the state, rather than perhaps accepting the most practical solution from a local perspective, as we often do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U19	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Golden Rule says that competitive conditions also reveal the market price of the service, and the National Audit Office's report also states that one of the biggest shortcomings in calculating the market price is small competition or even a lack of competition. What are you going to do to create competition in this service? It can guarantee that the state will pay just how much this service actually costs on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U21	We can count on it, as I said, that, on the one hand, we also have a national company, which must act somewhat independently. In addition to these so-called direct contracts, they have to a certain extent, given the market size of road maintenance, the possibility to participate in competitions, and they certainly intend to do so. As far as private operators in the road maintenance market are concerned, there is no point in hoping that some companies will suddenly appear from somewhere. The maintenance of the road requires a special technique that requires certain investments, it requires certain volumes. So the usual small business here will not produce any results. But we have to take down all the artificial limitations I could put the word 'argument' even in quotes and create such an atmosphere that all competitors are welcome. It is quite clear that in some counties, if there is a nursing contract that someone has completed for seven or eight years, it has a natural advantage to make a better offer than others. But we would really like to see the other bidders take part. The problem has been that usually the number of participants in new maintenance offers is between two and three. It could still be requested that all active players, six-seven road maintenance companies, participate seriously in all national offers. In many respects, it also depends on companies. The attitude of companies can certainly be changed, also by the fact that the Road Administration is brilliantly transparent in organising its own procurements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U22	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Currently, cars are allowed to weigh up to 44 tons. There are proposals to raise this limit to 52 tonnes. My question is: does the Road Administration see an opportunity to increase the limit weight of cars or are we not ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U24	The short answer is: not ready. I know that the committees of the Riigikogu are also discussing this, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on the Environment, and road and road transport companies bring a lot of different arguments in favour of this, but I believe that it is important to say the word here for our road engineers. At present, the unanimous negative position of road engineers, perhaps with a few exceptions, is quite justified. A number of studies have been carried out on this, which concludes that this would be an unthinkable step if we automatically allowed such a limit weight increase on all roads. We may be able to adjust some legislation, and in specific cases, especially in winter, when there are different climatic conditions, we may be able to be more flexible, but this can indeed be an isolated case. Such cooperation with road transport companies is very welcome. But the automatic lifting of my hand is definitely not going to do it. It is not possible to assume such responsibility for the roads that we have built since the Second World War. To some extent, we have managed to keep them in order so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U25	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In some counties road maintenance is privatized, part of the works are carried out by a public company. What is the current trend: whether in the short or medium term, the number of counties and kilometres maintained by private operators will increase, or vice versa? Is the current situation that some of the public enterprises, some of the private sector, will remain the same, or is this balance sheet somehow changing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U27	As I said in my reply, the proposal for this service to the private sector began in 1998. By 2007, there was a lot of experience, and these experiences were relatively positive when judged by numbers. In 2007, the government also discussed this and felt that we could move forward by proposing the private sector. However, it turns out that the economic crisis has played its part here, that the offers made by the State were not found by interested parties. For two counties, we tried it. But since we weren't interested, we had to go some other way. Given the competition problems, as well as the issues of road maintenance in emergencies and the rapid development of technology, we decided to go this way so that we would not bid on the market at the moment. We've done five companies in the county except one, and now this company is about to start. At the moment, there are no plans for any further action. I think that the year-two is going through such a period of stabilisation, then it could be re-examined. In theory, the private sector, private companies could be more efficient, offering a better price, but unfortunately, yes, experience has shown that this may not always be the case. It is precisely the fact that going to a single private company may later mean that there is no competition in these counties, which is even worse. I don't want to quote a classic who said anything about a private monopoly. In this case, the monopoly is perhaps a bit harsh, but the monopoly must have been worse than one party whose name starts with the letter "K."
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U28	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U29	The next question is the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Võsa and Vladimir Velman, submitted on 7 March this year, concerning the suspicion of corruption in buildings without a building permit (No 132). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U30	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Last December, I was asked by a journalist, which was the biggest surprise for me during the first year we spent here in the Riigikogu. I had to admit to him honestly that I was shocked by a specific document, which was the report of the National Audit Office on construction activities published on 15 March 2011 with a rapid increase in the number of inhabitants in municipalities. The report audited construction activities in five rural areas bordering the city of Tallinn and three Tartu cities, which during the second half of 2000 were among the largest building areas in Estonia. For the purpose of the audit, a collection of new buildings in these municipalities, completed dwellings were selected for which no data were found in the national building register. The audit analysed whether the selected buildings had come up legally and whether the municipalities had complied with their building supervision obligations for these buildings. As a result of the audit, the National Audit Office found buildings erected without a building permit in all audited municipalities. It turned out that all audited municipalities violated the obligation to disclose construction and permit data in the national building register. During the audit, the National Audit Office identified among the 85 buildings included in the sample 48 new buildings that were built without a building permit or whose building permit could not be found by the municipalities, which is actually the same. Having checked the situation half a year later, it became clear that for only a quarter of these buildings the municipalities had started the procedure to establish the infringement. For many buildings, it was not even difficult to contact the owner of the building. On the basis of this, six members of the Riigikogu asked the Minister three questions. Photographs are attached to the inquiry in order to illustrate the material concerned. One is very figurative: on the last page there is one illegally built four-storey building with 80 windows on the facade. Yet it does not have a building permit. So I would ask the Minister to answer questions that I am not going to read in terms of time savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U31	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Please, the Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U32	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you for the questions you have asked. I must begin by stating that, in essence, I can only respond to them to a limited extent. Managing corruption in local governments, and in particular supporting local authorities in building anti-corruption capacities, has been one of the objectives of an effective anti-corruption strategy for 2008-2012. This activity has been important in the past strategy and is also important in the future. Now for the audit we're talking about. Its aim was to evaluate the activities of the rural municipalities bordering Tallinn and Tartu in ensuring the legality and compliance of the construction of the buildings. It was assessed whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as the controller of the construction register, has ensured that the data contained in the building register of the completed buildings are correct. Thus, the purpose of the audit was not so much to contribute to the detection of suspected cases of corruption, which of course does not mean that the data published in the audit may also serve as a basis for the detection of cases of corruption. Mostly, however, the audit draws attention to major shortcomings in the system for registering buildings, building permits and permits and shows that the consequences of the building boom also need to be addressed in the area of construction planning. It is therefore also understandable that in this area, the Minister of Justice may not be the right person to respond. But as far as I'm concerned, I'll try to answer them. The first question: "Has the Ministry of Justice investigated the possibility of corruption in the case of 48 new constructions without a building permit? 'The Ministry of Justice is not competent to investigate cases of construction without a building permit in rural municipalities or in which circumstances the municipalities have not been able to guarantee the supervision of the construction, either because of insufficient administrative capacity or infrastructure, lack of political will or because of corruption. If this is the latter, it is the police's responsibility to carry out an appropriate procedure, and if corruption is proven, the proceedings will result in prosecution and, supposedly, conviction. It is the job of the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the rules of penal law and procedure allow this result to be achieved effectively and fairly. If we ask the same question as the Ministry of Justice has jurisdiction in this area, it is our responsibility to try to prevent corruption. One instrument for preventing corruption is certainly the development of a new law on planning for construction, and that is what we are currently working on. I'm sure you all agree that the easier the procedure is, the less permission-making and bureaucratic the procedure is, the less risk of corruption. As we have seen from recent processes: very often, the source of corruption is precisely that businesses have artificially created obstacles to their activities. So these obstacles will be heroically overcome together. The second question: 'How is it possible that the National Audit Office's report last year has not yet been simply reacted? Do you not think that someone must gain material well-being, that officials do not dictate such a case or impose a penalty? ' As I have said, there are law enforcement authorities to deal with these cases if there are doubts. The Justice Department doesn't have the authority to do that. As far as this audit is concerned, when looking at the part of its recommendations and the responses of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Minister for Regional Affairs, there are concrete proposals that should be made to remedy such shortcomings. I have looked at this part of the recommendations, and I have also seen that the municipalities of Kiili, Harku, Jõelähtme, Rae and Luunja have already begun to comply with certain recommendations. Specialists have also been employed for this purpose. Similarly, recommendations have been made to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and to the Minister of Regional Affairs, mostly regarding the construction register. Hopefully, these recommendations will be met. The third question: 'How much will the Ministry of Justice monitor the results of the National Audit Office's reports and, on the basis of these, have any investigations been initiated in connection with the suspicion of corruption? ' The Ministry of Justice will undoubtedly monitor the reports of the National Audit Office, which make recommendations on matters falling within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. That audit shall not be included in the audit. Whether investigations have been initiated on the basis of one of the National Audit Office's reports or other data, the Ministry of Justice can assess ex post in the course of criminal policy analysis. As a result, proposals can be made to better shape the legal order. Once again, the Ministry of Justice does not run or carry out criminal proceedings: it is the prosecutor's office and police authorities. That would be my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! This problem is indeed widespread and it is not always corruption. Certainly, there would be some way to improve the law and also to regulate sanctions for those who do not formalise building permits. The second, even bigger problem is the licenses. Once the building is ready and the building permit has been in place, nothing will happen to the owner when he starts using it without permission. Lived for five or ten years, and nothing happens if the authorisation is not formalised. I understand that the legislation has been reviewed on this issue and that something is working. I have been working in this area and I know that the legislation in question definitely needs to be fleshed out and tightened up. Corruption is not always involved, but the law is simply not enforced because there are no sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U35	I certainly agree with you that very often it is because legislation does not correspond to real life. As I said, it is not always about corruption, sometimes it may also be about either being careless or simply not following the rules. But we don't have to convince each other here in the Riigikogu. The Ministry of Justice is working on modernising the law on construction planning, and I hope that this is an area where, regardless of political affiliation, everyone is taking part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U36	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U37	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As expected, the Minister answered half the question. Half of the third question was answered, the rest did not receive any answers. The motto is very clear: it is none of my business, go long and ask the Interior Department. Of course, that is what we are doing, and we are addressing the Minister of the Interior with the same questions. For a long time, I have dealt with an area of detail planning, construction and permits. I have done this, either directly or indirectly, and I must say that the laws governing planning and construction are, in my opinion, some clearer and, in this way, some of the more close-minded laws that are in the Republic of Estonia. No one can doubt the need to comply with them. You're saying you could simplify the procedures. On what account? It's all thought through nicely. If you take down some coordination, for example as regards the work of the Health or Rescue Board, there is no guarantee that people in buildings where this work has not been carried out will not be harmed. So we're fine with the law. But we are not okay with this, I have to say that there are areas in Estonia where both the police and the prosecutor's office are interested. And in any case, even if nothing has happened there, it's a fictional subject. There are areas where, as practice shows, more than half of the objects can be built illegally, they can be used illegally, and Mr. Minister, this is, in my opinion, a huge shame, telling us that it is not his business. That's the answer I expected. But we are going logically forward, we are going to the Minister of the Interior, and we are still trying to find out who should react to the disadvantages referred to by the National Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U38	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U39	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Ester Tuiksoo, Kadri Simson, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme and Viktor Vassilyev on 13 March this year about the lies of the Minister of Agriculture concerning the Aardla Rural Improvement Association (No 135). My colleague Tarmo Tamm is already on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U40	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 20 February, the minister was before the Riigikogu and reported on the Aardla Land Improvement Association. At the time we listened to the answers to the question, we thought that was the case. But time has brought clarity and we have further questions for the Minister. Ülenurme Aardla poldri, a land improvement cooperative of the same name created to restore the wetland, has received more than EEK 7 million (EUR 450,000) through the state, including EEK 3.6 million directly from the PRIA. On 20 February, you answered an inquiry into the lack of transparency in the use of the PRIA grant funds, and the 'Spectator' of the national broadcasting programme identified direct lies in your reply. There is no point in repeating all the lies and misconceptions in the current question, but we will give you the opportunity to explain some of the claims again to the public. In this regard, we have five questions for you, Minister. For the sake of saving time, maybe you'll read the questions and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U41	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Please, dear Minister of Agriculture, respond to the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the heirs for their questions. I will answer the five questions that have been asked. The first question concerns the time for recovery. Recovery is a complex process, especially in the area of land improvement. The burden of proof lies with the State. It is necessary to gather evidence, the obligation to hear from the other party, in this case the Aardla Land Improvement Association, and to reject its objections. The PRIA had to take into account that the counterparty could challenge the recovery in court. Therefore, the activities of the PRIA in the taking of evidence and in the preparation of the recovery were justified and prudent. The processing of the grant application shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act. Before taking any action against parties to proceedings which may adversely affect their rights, the administrative body shall give it the opportunity to submit opinions and objections. From September 2009, when the process of the then Tartu Land Improvement Office started to process the land improvement system implementation act, until the decision to recover the support of the PRIA in November 2010, a very close administrative process was carried out between several state institutions and land improvement companies, due to differences of opinion regarding the volume of work carried out in the context of the investment. Three expert analyses, a series of inspections and a round table of the parties arguing at the Ministry of Agriculture have been carried out in the course of the procedure. The precise chronological list of activities I have taken with me today, if there are any further questions. On a proposal from the PRIA, a special expert committee was set up to deal with the matter from representatives of the PRIA, Agricultural Board, Ministry of Agriculture and the Aardla Land Improvement Association. The water level of the Aardla polder allowed the Committee of Experts to carry out the necessary expert analyses only on 10 August 2010, as under the conservation management plan for the Ropka-Iceland Nature Conservation Area, water should not be artificially lowered before the end of the nesting period. At the end of the latest breeding period for the birds referred to in the management plan, 15 July shall be considered. The second question concerns EEK 7 million or EEK 3,5 million under measure 1.8. I can assure you once again that the state has not suffered the losses of EEK 7 million, as you have repeatedly stated. As far as the Ministry is concerned, the funds paid to the Aardla Land Improvement Association in 2003-2011 are as follows: 1203000 kroons from the Environmental Investment Centre, 1 million kroons from the Tartu County Government, 285000 kroons from the ARIB measure in 2006; 122000 kroons from the PRIA maintenance allowance for land improvement systems in 2005 and 2006; 3585000 kroons from the PRIA from the Rural Development Plan measure 1.8. These are payments made by the state. As Minister of Agriculture, I can give a more precise overview of the grants granted in the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. The monitoring period for the support received from the RAK measures and the maintenance allowance for land improvement systems has ended, and no irregularities were detected during that period. It is therefore well spent. For more information on the grants received under MAK measure 1.8. The PRIA did not pay out the third tranche of the grant to the applicant, EEK 224000. This money will be re-used in the next call for proposals and will be available to other applicants. It is important to know that the majority of the planned works have also been carried out in respect of the EEK 3585000 to be recovered. In its recovery decision of 19 November 2010, the PRIA sets out the underemployment and non-compliant expenditure documents at EEK 699518,91 at 18% of the amount requested. It is not possible to talk about the amount of direct damage until the court has given its decision on the recovery of the PRIA. When it comes to the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture with regard to support, the Minister gives the legal framework for the processing of grants, under which and to what extent the PRIA takes the necessary decisions. The PRIA shall be an independent payment agency and shall be independent in the decision-making process. Individual cases are generally not dealt with by the Minister. The allocation of aid to the Aardla Land Improvement Association has been examined several times. To date, no audit or verification has had any complaints regarding the support granted to the Aardla Rural Development Association that the bodies legally assisting the PRIA or the PRIA as experts and reviewers would have breached essential standards or failed to do anything necessary. Similarly, the audit firm KPMG, which carries out the certification audit in Estonia, has not identified any deficiencies in the framework of measure 1.8, although it has assessed the related aspects of this measure. The internal control department of the Ministry of Agriculture carried out an extraordinary audit of the award of grants to the Aardla Rural Development Association in the PRIA, during which no particular shortcomings in the procedures of the PRIA were detected. The most direct and authoritative assessment of the Aardla Land Improvement Association case comes from the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) on 27 January 2012. I quote the decision: in the light of all the facts and information known to OLAF, it was decided that the Estonian authorities had acted correctly in this case, so OLAF will not take further action and the case will be closed. It is a pity that no one has ever been referred to in any of these checks and audits when the whole subject matter is reported in the media. I would like to point out here that the independent criminal proceedings are subject to the PRIA's recovery, and that does not expire. To conclude on this point, I would like to emphasise that in the rule of law, those responsible for the damage caused, the infringements, the miscarriages and the criminal offences are still those responsible and those found guilty. The beneficiary shall be responsible for the non-targeting of the grant. Question three. Indeed, a further examination of all relevant documents revealed that Tõnu Ojamaa signed the letter of confirmation, but that Anti Kalvet had no signature. Kalvet's signature was missing on the letter of confirmation, but he was also aware that the Aardla Land Improvement Association was planning to apply for support through the PRIA. In particular, Anti Kalvet participated in a general meeting of the Aardla Rural Development Association, where an obligation was imposed on the board of the association. It is important to note that Anti Kalvet did not have an obligation to the PRIA in relation to Measure 1.8 and that the PRIA has not submitted any invoices to the Anti Kalvet. The fourth question concerns the provision of more than EEK 3 million of taxpayers' money to the Aardla Land Improvement Association. I claimed that the Aardla Land Improvement Association has received over 3 million kroons of support from the PRIA. I therefore had in mind the support received through the MAK measure 1.8, for which there were problems and recovery, and not earlier subsidies. In point 2 of the enquiry, all other subsidies received have also been rewritten. In replying to the inquiry on 20 February, I explained to the accuracy of the kroon what amounts have been paid to the Aardla Land Improvement Company through the PRIA measure 1.8. Regrettably, the Spectator show did not reflect this passage, but had chosen a story where I spoke about 3.5 million. A few moments later, I spoke up all these figures, and I will also speak up these figures once again here, so that there is no reason to say that the Minister does not know how large the amounts have been allocated under measure 1.8. I read them last time and I read them again so there's no doubt. I repeat that the first payment was 513200 kroons and the second payment was 3071635 kroons. The amount of the third payment was claimed to be 224169 kroons, but this payment was not made as a result of the detection of irregularities. The fifth question concerns the beneficiary being a member of the IRL. I'm gonna be honest with you. I don't understand the question. The applicant for the grant was the Aardla Land Improvement Association and there are no members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association among the beneficiaries. On the basis of the available data, I removed them from the register and looked at them, there are ten specific cooperative members whose real estate was affected by the corresponding investment and the support for measure 1.8. Whether you have read their names and political affiliations here: Ants Einola, Estonian People's Union; Astrid Lellep, does not belong to any political party; Arvi Vainomäe, does not belong to any political party; Tambet Kibal, does not belong to any political party; Tõnu Vesi, does not belong to any political party; Tõnu Ojamaaa, until 19 January 2011 Social Democratic Party; Priit Ojamaaa, does not belong to any political party; Margus Pikk, does not belong to any political party; Evi Pärn, does not belong to any political party; Aime Einola, does not belong to any political party. Once again, there are no members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association among the beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your meaningful answers. However, I have one further question. You have declared that a refund of EEK 3.6 million has been made. This is a claim made to the Aardla Land Improvement Association. But I hear the Aardla Land Improvement Society is bankrupt. The debt is still one million kroons, there is virtually no property, the assets of the members of the board have been successfully transferred. Thus, the country will be left empty, but more than one million kroons will have to be paid back to the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U45	Let us not get ahead of events. It is now difficult to say how much work has not been done at all, how much damage could be done. As I said here earlier, the PRIA estimates that about 18% of the volume of work in measure 1.8 is disputed, i.e. disputed, the rest of the work has actually been physically carried out. So the damage is certainly not as great as the discussions have claimed that up to 7 million kroons. The other thing is that neither the claim against the Land Improvement Company will expire. Disputes are in court. I also reviewed the 'Spectator' show, where a rhetorical question was put, and here, too, the debate has asked why it is then that the dispute is up, but the land improvement object was accepted. A land improvement object is actually accepted when it works, even though there are disputes about underemployment and disputes about financing. These disputes go on in a court of law. An analogy can be made here, for example, with the construction of a house. If the house is actually built and fit for service, then authorisation will be granted. If there are financial disputes between the contracting entity and the builder that the builder has set aside money, reported wrong works, or any other financial disputes, these disputes may continue for years, but the actual operation of the house will be taken into account. The same thing was the case with this object: it was found to be technically at least in such a state that it works and could be put into service. As regards the extent to which benefits are reimbursed, it is up to us. As a general rule, half of the amount paid out of the European Union budget must be repaid, but there are also a lot of nuances. They depend on what can be recovered from the cooperative and what cannot be recovered, we do not yet know. In fact, the damage suffered by the State is far less significant than the recovery. It must certainly not be confused that the recovery is to the full extent of the measure, but the damage suffered is significantly lower. This is because if it is found that the applicant has knowingly made false declarations, the entire amount of aid shall be recovered, which does not mean that the entire amount has been misused. This is the case in the present case and the disputes are pending. I can't comment on the court's decision today. Only after this decision can we finally assess whether the damage was at all, and if so, how big it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U46	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You're pretty well prepared for today, and you're giving some pretty good answers. To my astonishment, you also said that you could highlight chronologically when and what supervision has been carried out and that even an extraordinary audit has been carried out. If you've studied it so thoroughly, please tell me where the error occurred and why it wasn't discovered before. The problem with this polder has been going on for two and a half years, why have you been silent so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U48	Thank you. No, I haven't stopped talking about anything. Last time, too, I explained the background quite thoroughly and announced that an emergency audit had been carried out. So it is not today's news, but it has already been said in response to the previous question. The actions started as soon as doubts were raised and doubts arose during the first monitoring exercise when the PRIA started to deal with the matter in September 2009. In September 2009, active supervision was started, additional documents were requested, expertise was carried out, everything I read to you here before, and a decision was reached in November 2010. The reason why this process took more than a year was to give the representatives of the land improvement company the opportunity to submit a statement of opposition and to carry out expert analyses, which would also hold water in court. Many of the works could not be completed in the winter of 2009. These were land improvement works, the volume of which cannot be estimated in winter. It was not possible to carry out expert analyses in spring, as there were restrictions on nature conservation, and the latter could not be carried out until August 2010. These were the reasons why the PRIA reached its decision in autumn 2010. No serious complaint to the PRIA has been found as a result of any audit or monitoring that they have delayed or failed to do anything significant. I sincerely believe in these audits. For me, there are various audits from different sources, which have also been carried out outside Estonia, with authority, and I think they can be trusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U49	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U50	Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. Good minister! According to the press, many people have the impression that the Ministry of Agriculture is merely playing to find out the truth. I have also heard that when the PRIA came up with its arguments at the first hearing in October last year, they were said to be very modest, and that is why it has not come any further. Minister, I am giving you a good opportunity to reject this people's opinion and to justify that you have done everything you can to date, that the PRIA has done the right thing and that the courts are grinding forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U51	Thank you. I have been trying to explain the behaviour of the authorities throughout this process, both the behaviour of the PRIA and the behaviour of the Agricultural Office, in the past, the behaviour of the land improvement agencies in this case. The Ministry actually has a very small role to play here because, according to the law, we must not intervene directly in individual cases, we can only supervise, but the Ministry does not intervene in individual cases. The procedure is that the applicant may file an appeal if he or she does not like the decision of the PRIA, and after the appeal he or she goes to the court to argue. A ministry cannot replace a court. As far as proceedings are concerned in court, it is very difficult for me to comment on, it is not an institution of the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I would not want to have any influence on the court by my actions. The court must objectively assess all the arguments and make the fairest decision. I have repeatedly referred to the possibility that perhaps the court will find that no damage has been caused. This could also be the solution, and this does not mean that the PRIA is weak. This should certainly not be considered as a weak activity of the PRIA if, for example, the court concludes that all the work has been done and the State has not been harmed. This is also a solution and clarity for us, and such a decision cannot be ruled out. So it's hard for me to comment on. However, I do have a number of questions of my own which have not been reflected in this process and which do not have good answers. For example, the question that several members of land improvement companies, in particular Kalvet and Ojamaa, have accused the company's CEO that he has not performed his duties reliably, has even submitted the materials to the prosecutor's office and is under criminal investigation. This situation has actually been going on for a long time, many years. I have no idea why the members of the Land Improvement Company will then continue to trust the CEO and have not replaced him. I really don't understand it. I have also watched this process in the media, which says that it is not a two-person provocation, but the members of the association are largely of the same opinion as Kalvet and Ojamaa speak, and they have no confidence in the executive. But the CEO has remained in office, he has not even been suspended on a temporary basis. In my opinion, supervision will be carried out primarily by the members of the association themselves. The management board is supervised, and if the CEO is distrusted, he will be replaced and so on. It does not seem to me that there is such an internal consensus within the association and the perception that, to a large extent, the duty of care of the members of the association had not been properly met. That's where these things start.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U52	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U53	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned the media coverage of this case again today. Already in February you said that you consider the "Spectator" programme to be biased and malicious, you said that this programme even poisoned the Estonian people. It is common practice for national broadcasting programmes to believe that they are more balanced and that the facts have been checked more closely than in any other channel. ERR's ethical advisor also works in national broadcasting. What steps have you taken if you claim that your important statements were cut out, etc.? Did you just accept it, or did you take any steps to restore a good name?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U54	Thank you. Yeah, we had a pretty tight e-mail exchange with the authors of the show. Mr Kärmas tried to explain by e-mail why he had written in or left in his script one paragraph or another in this form. We actually had very broad differences of opinion on the subject of the programme. I have to admit, unfortunately, that our e-mail suggestions on 'The Spectator' were not taken into account, essentially no explanation, not one single proposal for various reasons. I agree with you, this is where the ethics advisor for national broadcasting should not only be interested, but should be interested in this case. I think we should turn to the various parties and find out what's wrong. It is very difficult for me to assess the reliability of the various channels, whether national broadcasting programmes are more reliable than other television channels, as you said. I don't dare say that. I treat the entire public media equally, and I would not dare to make such a statement in public. I think everyone does their job in the best faith and wants to reflect things objectively, but not everything always falls out in the most objective way, especially when the information is perhaps incomplete or you are under the influence of one or another information channel. I have pointed out a series of examples from correspondence with the author that show that the balance of the programme has perhaps not been quite in place, but I think that our short time here does not allow us to read all this information. It's not secret information, if you're interested in our more detailed correspondence with the Spectator programmers, we can send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U55	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U56	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Eldar Efendijev, Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luigas, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Olga Sõtnik, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toomi on 22 February on the Child Protection Act (No 125). Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U57	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. It is quite clear that children are our future, but it is also clear that good children are our good future. Almost two years ago, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder said in this very hall that the Estonian Child Protection Act was outdated and too abstract. Our children are neither outdated nor abstract; they are very specific; they need protection. Almost a year ago, the Estonian Human Rights Centre published its annual report, which stated that there is no legislation actually protecting children's rights in Estonia. The conclusion is only one: guaranteeing and protecting children's rights is problematic in Estonia. These are not empty words, for each of us can see when he opens the paper or Delfi in the morning or watches TV so that not a day goes by where mistreated children and troubled families are not spoken. Alar Tamm, the head of the Estonian Child Welfare Association, has also said that we need to improve the child welfare system, which should be one that will actually protect children. At present, the prevention and prevention of cruel treatment of children depends mainly on local authorities and, of course, on their cooperation with childguards. But do you also know that we have fewer childguards than local authorities and that only half of childguards have a professional education? Moreover, most childguards are concentrated in large municipalities, and they simply do not exist in smaller ones. But it is no secret that troubled families and abused children are located in smaller municipalities, where no one protects these children. It is clear that Estonia needs a common system of social benefits and a common database of social workers and family doctors. It has to be created. A development plan for children and families has now been written. I do not know how happy the children who have been abused are, and with good intentions and development plans, the road to hell is paved, as the proverb says. It has also been claimed that there is a new Child Protection Act for writing. Who writes him and how long, when he's gonna be written, that's what we'd like to know. However, the current situation is that we do not know whether proper citizens will grow from abused children. The point is that it is virtually impossible to re-create a crooked grown-up adult, and not even the Soviet awesome punishment system of its own. If we risk becoming bitter citizens of today's abused children, taking over the society that we inherit for them, and this society is not perfect today, what will happen to our future? This is a matter of national importance. As I get older every year, I often think that I would like to live in a society where today's and yesterday's children have grown into decent citizens, hard-working people, taxpayers, who create and maintain a tax system that I enjoy when I retire. With a heartache for the future of our country, I have, along with eight members of the Central Party Group, put forward a question, where there are seven questions. The ministers' advisers have certainly worked through these issues with appropriate attention, and we here and now are waiting for answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U58	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. Please, Minister for Social Affairs, to answer seven questions from the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U59	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and Members of the Riigikogu! Not only have the minister's advisers worked through these issues meaningfully and thoroughly, but also the minister and a number of other people who are all trying to contribute to making the Estonian child protection system work. But let's get to the questions. The first question: 'Is the creation of databases started and when should they be completed? ' I would have liked to have specified which databases the inquisitors are thinking about, but I try to be a bit predictable or mind-reading, and I assume that it is primarily intended to interface the data register of social services with the health information system. When you come to the data registers, the Social Services Data Register, or S.T.A.R.R.T.A., has already worked on the previous year, 1 April 2010, i.e. two years, the time runs so fast. Municipalities have collected most social work information in this database and it is possible to collect additional information separately according to the individual needs of the municipalities themselves. We are also preparing an amendment to the Social Welfare Act, which would like to expand the volume of mandatory data to be transferred to STAR. Currently, STAR is mainly voluntary, but I agree with you 100% that more information is often needed from local governments to make the necessary decisions, and some more mandatory data is needed for this. This must certainly lead everyone who needs information for child welfare work to receive the necessary information. Continuation work is also ongoing in other parts of STAR. As regards the cross-use of the STAR and health information system and other databases, this is undoubtedly related to our financial possibilities in particular. However, the development of the health information system is also carried out as planned and the development aims to ensure that these data are compatible. The exact date is very difficult to say, because S.T.A.R. is alive, in constant development, and the health information system is similarly in constant development. One example which was discussed by the Riigikogu and which the person who introduces a good inquiry knows is the reconciliation of the determination of disability between the social system and the health information system. It's working right now and let's see how it works between the two databases and it works in reality. The second issue concerns concrete steps to improve the effectiveness of the child protection system. I believe that one of the most concrete steps is certainly the creation of regional advisory centres for children and families that we have proposed. In order to prepare for this, we have already started work this year and are analysing the existing system. A very concrete step is, of course, also the new Child Protection Act, which you have even emphasised several times. These things are working. Today, for example, we sent a letter to the ministries and cooperation partners most involved in the Child Protection Act, asking for additional members to write the Child Protection Act. If we look further, in order to detect and, if necessary, intervene as early as possible, in the family medical system, we are changing a ministerial regulation so that the local authority is regularly informed of all children on the list of family doctors. We will also discuss with family doctors the addition of a family nurse to the practice of a family doctor. This concerns, in particular, the practice of family doctors directly related to home visits and to young children. In the second half of this year, we have planned to start writing about the concept of mental health and early intervention of children. Its aim is to map the bottlenecks that are currently hindering early intervention and, of course, also to provide solutions to address them. In order to prevent and reduce abuse and to diagnose abuse and implement public intervention, we are planning to establish a medically managed diagnostic system for child abuse, including by providing for the necessary people. The task of the teams who need to start doing this work is to assess multidisciplinaryly the abuse and neglect of the child and to recommend effective intervention depending on whether treatment or rehabilitation is required. If you look at the things that are already in place, you will know that the children's helpline has been running since 2009, which has proved to be very effective. The third question concerns the position of the Head of the Alliance for Child Welfare that many local authorities lack the ability and means to monitor crisis families. The question is whether we believe that the funds allocated to local authorities are sufficient. For example, if you look at the amounts of public income support, 40.4% of the income support paid to families with children and families with children went to 55.4% of the income support paid to families with only one adult in the household. If you look at other opportunities for municipalities, as I have said here many times before, the social protection costs of municipalities could undoubtedly be more uniform. If the social protection costs of local governments vary over time, the question is, inevitably, whether children living in all municipalities receive equal assistance. Question 4: How does the Ministry intend to ensure child protection in areas with low population density in Estonia? Of course, child protection, as a large part of social work, remains primarily at the municipal level and municipalities have to cope with this responsibility and challenge. In order to help the municipalities, it is planned, as I said, to set up regional child and family advisory centres. This will certainly increase the possibility for municipalities, who may be in trouble at the moment with one decision or another, to receive additional assistance or support. The fifth question is specifically about the Child Protection Act, asking why the process of creating the law is linked to the development plan for children and families. To answer so much, the law on child protection is certainly not directly linked to the development plan for children and families, although one part of the development plan for children and families naturally also talks about the organisation of child protection. The process of drafting the Child Welfare Act has now coincided with the development plan for children and families. When we look at the drafting of the text, it is clear that before we change one system as large and as fundamental as the child protection system, we need to analyse the bottlenecks of existing laws and understand what is wrong and what has been done to date. Similarly, an analysis of international case-law on the international regulation of the rights of the child and on the rights of the child has been completed and we have also started writing the text. If you look at when the draft law could be finalised, our current schedule provides that the general part of the text must be completed by autumn and the first version of the draft text by the end of the year or in the first months of next year. Then we are going to finish the text. In any case, I have assigned the ministry to the people the task that by the end of this year, the original version of the draft must be in full form. Question 6: Has the Ministry also discussed supplementing the family law? Here is a very short answer: we continue to believe that the law of the family is maintained by the Ministry of Justice. We have sent our proposals on family law to the Ministry of Justice and, as far as I know, the Ministry of Justice is still waiting until May for problems related to family law and will then, if necessary, start supplementing the family law. The seventh question concerns concrete steps in relation to the number of child protection workers in municipalities in particular. I dare say here that we have not explicitly set the goal that the number of child protection workers must necessarily be increased. Of course, if the municipalities have this opportunity, we would be very happy to see it, but in terms of the development plan, this is not an end in itself. Rather, the qualifications of both existing and new workers are much more important to us. Speaking of qualifications, the activities of the development plan 2014 and 2015 include the implementation of the municipality's continuing education system and training programmes for child protection workers. The provision of further education for specialists working with children and families has been divided into three years from now. In the same way, training for managers of social and educational and health promotion institutions on the well-being of children and families has been planned over three years. The preparation and dissemination of a handbook of child protection workers is planned for two years, i.e. the next year, and a range of work related to the supervision of child protection workers and the sharing of good practices is planned for three years. So there's a lot of action. I did not mention one of the activities, and in 2014 the current plan is to define minimum educational and qualification requirements for child protection workers. But it is inevitably linked to this previous process, where in many cases we also need to increase their qualifications. I think that's what I've gotten the questions answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U60	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Undoubtedly, the Ministry is on the right track when it initiates, writes, devotes anything, actions are all right. But tell that to those children who have been beaten up today, April 9, by a drunken father, give these children a child protection phone number. I don't know if it'll help or cheer them up. I cannot imagine well, please explain to me how child protection can be done effectively if there are 246 municipalities in Estonia, perhaps minus a few, which are still in the accession process, and 178 child protection workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U62	Thank you. We may be living in some different countries? As far as I know, there are 226 municipalities in Estonia and 178, or the majority of them, are child protection workers, and in many the work is done by a social worker. So let's subtract from 226. 178, that's almost 50 municipalities. So let's ask these 48 municipalities why they don't have a child welfare officer. Child welfare work is undoubtedly extremely important. If this function is performed by some other officials, they will have to do the job. But the day-to-day work of child welfare has always been on the municipal level and will certainly remain there, it can't be any different. How do you imagine, then, how Riigikogu member Viktor Vassilyev imagines it? That the state has some sort of coercive mechanism, that the state has a bunch of officials who go to child protection? Far from it. A good member of the Riigikogu certainly believes that social work is a job that must be done as close to the person as possible. The state must provide support systems, in particular the legislative base. This is the legal base we are dealing with, both directly in this Chamber and in the Ministry. Of course, the day-to-day work is done on the ground, and citizens do so too. If people see any concern, for example, it is a father who has been violently treating his child or raising his child by improper means, then it must be reported. If a neighbor's wife or neighbor's husband doesn't say that to children's guards or school or kindergarten doesn't signal it to a child welfare officer, then the child welfare officer can't go all the way home even if he wants to. I wouldn't want to be placed in a country like this, where, for example, a representative of a state or government simply knocks on the door to see if I'm okay. But if there are signals, then of course you have to react.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U63	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we know, not all social workers are in special education, but communicating with children certainly requires special education, I mean child protection workers. Do you have any information on how many more social workers we still have in the country who are agronomists, etc., who have not received special training and special education?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U65	Thank you. I'm gonna try to see if I have the data. So not to say the wrong number, why don't we just make a deal so I can e-mail you the answer? Yes, we have an overview, as far as the municipalities have told us. However, this is also one of the reasons why, in response to the last question, specific activities were listed to raise qualifications is very, very important for us. Let us be honest, in fact, this is not just about child welfare workers. This same development plan for children and families also talks about support for parenthood and parental education. All of us who are parents understand that if parenting and parenting skills were all right, then child welfare workers would not be needed. Isn't that right? So, above all, it must be ensured that those child protection workers who do not have sufficient qualifications receive it. On the other hand, it is necessary to deal with the fact that both the school system and the sharing of parental education are so much better that we do not need to talk about the figures that show how many children we have on substitute home services and other parental careless activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U66	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U67	We will go to the final inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Kütt, Kalev Kotkas, Marianne Mikko, Neeme Suur, Rein Randver, Sven Mikser and Urve Palo on 6 March in the s. a. The inquiry is about measures to alleviate child poverty (No 131). Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Social Democrats are also concerned about children and how to alleviate poverty in families with children. I say right now: the coalition agreement states that the principle of more support for those who really need more help and have more children must continue to apply to the payment of family allowances. Maybe I'll talk about today's situation first. According to the Chancellor of Justice's review of the tasks of children's ombudsman, over 63000 children live in absolute poverty or at risk of poverty in Estonia, which is 26% of children under the age of 18. Children are much worse off than the rest of society, both in terms of absolute poverty and at risk of poverty. However, the growth environment of children is linked to a whole set of key issues that determine human development, participation in society as an adult. Poverty means limited learning opportunities and social contacts for children, often health problems, low self-esteem, risk of addiction, etc. We have grown to poverty in the difficult economic conditions of recent years, and in this context too, the situation of children has worsened. Studies have also shown risk factors for poverty: one or more unemployed family members, single parents, families rich in children and family members in need of care. Since children themselves have very few opportunities to improve their situation, it is the duty of the state to support parents in raising their children. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child requires the same. Not only to alleviate child poverty, action must be taken as quickly as possible to reduce the damage caused by the last one, including the year-to-year development gap, to a growing child and a youngster. On the one hand, there is a need to increase support for families with children; we are talking about additional support to mitigate social risks. On the other hand, both parents and children need more services. The state and municipalities must operate in a systematic and coordinated manner. While social benefits in the Member States of the European Union account for an average of 27% of GDP, this figure is 12.5% in Estonia. Without parental benefit, the total amount of social benefits would be negligible. The analysis of the Estonian social programmes published by the OECD in 2010 shows that even the small amount of taxpayers' money allocated to family benefits reaches the pockets of well-off people, not those in desperate need of help. In the European Union, Estonia has achieved the status of one of the most unequal countries, the income gap between the poorest and the wealthiest decile we have is ninefold. If the richest tenth has ripped themselves off in a big leap, the first member of the family receiving income support will have to cope with 76 euros and 70 cents per month, and for each of the next family members, i.e. a child of growth, there will be 61.36 euros per month. By comparison, the minimum cost of the basket is EUR 77.58. The children's welfare is largely shaped by the parents'wallet and the family's "cartage'. The 2006 European Council committed itself to taking all measures to rapidly and substantially reduce child poverty by ensuring a level playing field for all children, regardless of their social origin. In 2008, the EESC published a report on child poverty, analysing its main causes by country. At the same time, 15 recommendations were also put forward on how to monitor and evaluate child poverty and well-being. Recent Estonian human development reports have pointed out that more and more people's lives hang out from what family they were born into. Thus, the need for equal treatment of children has been brought to the attention again and again at the level of the world, Europe and the Estonian Riigikogu. That is why we have asked the Minister for Social Affairs six questions and we are waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U69	Thank you very much. I would like to call the Minister of Social Affairs on the floor once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U70	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Since the inquiry was well read, I will try to answer the questions. Question one. To begin with, I would ask that I do not know why you compare Estonia with such a feudal society, but okay. It is worth recalling, as I said in reply to the previous question, that the Government of the Republic adopted the development plan for children and families last autumn. One of the important features of this development plan is certainly a family-friendly attitude and caring for children. Indeed, the Government Union has agreed on a number of steps to improve children's well-being, including the principle that more support should be given to those who need more help. The aim is also to further develop a supportive environment to increase the birth rate as well as to further develop work-life reconciliation opportunities and effectively protect children's rights. And, of course, once they're set for purpose, there's work going on for that. As you have certainly noticed when you look at the government's agenda, there is a time at every point when one or the other action has to happen. The second issue concerns the recommendations made by the various European structures. In response, it can be said that, when looking at the recommendations of the Social Protection Committee, these recommendations are very clearly in line with the principle of a holistic and systematic approach to preventing child poverty in the development plan for children and families, and that children's and family policies must be knowledge-based and sustainable. That is why we have undertaken to write about the concept of family benefits and services, which I am sure the heirs will be aware of. When looking at the analyses of the Social Protection Committee and other international institutions, they show that there are various risk factors in the development of child poverty or relative poverty, one of which is parental unemployment, as well as coping skills, household structure, number of members, etc. It is therefore necessary to strike a reasonable balance between the grants and services offered. As has been pointed out in the European Social Protection Committee's analysis, the labour market status of the parents is very important for Estonia. If you look at the main causes of poverty in households with Estonian children, one of them is undoubtedly unemployment. As unemployment increased during the economic crisis and, in this context, the proportion of children living in households who are unemployed, this affected the indicators of child poverty. There has been a lot of talk about labour market measures in this regard on several occasions; I am not going to read them separately at the moment. There is already good news from this spring: the drop in the number of unemployed by almost 500 last week is certainly positive. And, in fact, the same positive signs that were on the labour market in 2011 already make the statistics very clear about child poverty. For example, the unemployment rate in Estonia decreased significantly in 2011 and the employment rate increased and, if you look at the proportion of children living in households who are unemployed, it was 13.2% in 2010 and it had fallen to 9% in 2011. Thirdly, you ask when a complex programme can be expected in the proceedings of the Riigikogu to alleviate child poverty. A comprehensive and systematic approach to preventing child poverty is indeed important. Some kind of programme-based schemes or complex programmes can always be summed up by different measures, but we are clearly convinced that the integrated and systematic approach envisaged in the development plan for children and families will help to achieve our goals. If you look at the main parts of it, the concept of family benefits and services, which I have already mentioned, or the drafting of the so-called Green Paper, must provide a clear answer to what will be the future of Estonian family benefits. Both universal family allowances and more targeted family allowances have been examined, and the aim of this work is to find a reasonable compromise. The Child Welfare Act, as it was said in reply to the previous inquiry, is in operation. Looking at the measures that have been in place for many years now, there are quite a number of them in the form of various grants and services. In fact, several social transfers in Estonia have also proved very effective on the European scale, which have been noted by various international institutions. Looking at the figures for 2010, which have been broken down, social transfers have reduced the relative poverty rate of children, and I am talking about children in general, and not about 40%, or relative poverty of children in 2010, thanks to transfers from 32.5% to 19.5%. Fortunately, we have also been able to make good use of a wide range of external aid instruments. The European Social Fund has been very helpful, as has Norway and the European Economic Area. New activities have already started with Norwegian resources. Last week we met with the head of the Norwegian Regional Children's and Families' Advisory Centre to get acquainted with their daily work and hear what has been done in Norway. Norway is a good example for us precisely as regards the regional level. If we compare the number and relationship of municipalities and regional units, they are more or less in line with Estonia's. There are very long distances in Norway, but there are considerably more diffuse settlements in Estonia than in some other countries. The fourth question concerns maintenance. There is certainly a need to clarify the question of the heir here. The maintenance and maintenance business has still been directly the property of the Ministry of Justice, and we deal with maintenance aid. It must be admitted that maintenance aid has been very necessary. My background is, I've had a chance myself to write the maintenance law a little bit over. Yeah, you can argue whether three months is enough or not, maybe that time could be longer. But if you look at the number of beneficiaries of maintenance aid, it has also changed in time and, in fact, you can see links to the labour market here. If we take the years, in 2008 the maintenance aid was paid to 257 children, in 2009 to 487 children, in 2010 to 543 already, and in 2011 it fell back to 343. So, in this sense, there is a clear link here, i.e. how the economy is generally doing and how much maintenance assistance is needed. The fifth question concerns the deduction of child benefit from income support. We have discussed this issue several times in this Chamber, but once again: according to the Ministry, income support is a means of alleviating poverty, which is implemented as a 'last measure' when a person is unable to obtain sufficient means of subsistence for himself and his family through work or other means of income. Under the current regulation, child benefit is indeed, as the heirs themselves have indicated, included in the family's income and is in line with the logic of general income support. The purpose of income support is to guarantee a certain amount of income for the family. If child benefit is paid in addition to income support, then there will certainly be a legitimate question on other groups of persons. In particular, I would point out, for example, the families of persons with disabilities, where there may be a question of whether to include disability support in the income or to exclude it. So we are trying to maintain a uniform approach and we are not going to break very directly the principles of the payment of income support. The sixth question concerns the relationship between GDP, i.e. gross domestic product, and social expenditure. You're asking me if it seems to me that we owe our own children. Honestly, I think it's the other way around. In my opinion, it is very irresponsible to tell your children that good, dear children, you must start paying off those loans and debts that are being taken to change the current situation. When looking at social protection expenditure, the latest official data, social protection expenditure in 2005 was about 12.6% of GDP in Estonia, and in 2009 this percentage almost doubled, i.e. 19.2. As GDP fell in Europe, it increased by only 2% on average in Europe. If you look at the current year's budget, as I have said here before, social protection expenditure for the last ten years was 41 to 42% of the current year's budget, but in the last three years as a whole it has grown to 47 to 48%. This clearly shows that the government has not had any desire to substantially change social protection expenditure in the years of crisis either, and this means that our social protection expenditure in relation to GDP has increased significantly in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, you did not answer any specific questions and this gives reason to believe that the government does not have the will and plan to really alleviate child poverty in Estonia. I am therefore asking a very specific question which cannot be answered yes. The Action Plan of the Government Union states that a reasonable, balanced system of providing services, universal support and direct financial support is preferable to helping families. Sounds very reasonable. However, the Prime Minister continues to talk about how universal support is to sow money from an airplane, despite the fact that, according to the European Commission's studies, the universal support system is one of the most effective in preventing and alleviating child poverty. It is known that in those countries where universal subsidies exist, child poverty is also lower. My question: will you stand for universal child support in Estonia to be preserved and even increased? You can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U72	Thank you. Have you seen or heard that if a politician, including you, is asked for a no or a yes on a forum, for example, they do not answer yes? I didn't notice. I'd be happy to discuss it a little bit. Of course, universal systems and universal subsidies have justified themselves very much. At the same time, what you read out of the government's action programme has also been written there very clearly and consciously. In other words, within the same system, solutions can be found where universal subsidies and services are offered in a reasonable balance. This does not necessarily mean that universal subsidies are lost. The Green Paper on services and subsidies offers a wide range of alternatives. Besides these alternatives, there are impact analyses from which the government or the Riigikogu must choose the law or some government regulation, which is the most sensible solution for Estonia, depending on what needs to be changed. Of course, on the basis of available information and available indicators, the potential impact on children's relative poverty can be calculated and at different times these calculations and various plans have been made in the Ministry. In fact, it is necessary to put these schemes, which have been negotiated at different times, together into one whole. The same side of services, which is currently not considered in practice, must be added and the most sensible scheme offered to the Riigikogu for discussion. I continue to believe that this can be done by ensuring both the universality component and better targeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U73	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U74	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! 'Scissors away from the parental benefit ceiling,' has declared your home party and made a consistent sacrifice of the 450-kroon school allowance at the beginning of the school year, the tax-free income of the mother or father on the first child, the partial cancellation of the student loan of the parent raising up to five years of age, the allowance for the care of the sick child, cutting the sickness allowance from 100% to 80%. As a child grows, financial needs increase, not decrease. According to Mare Ainsaare, researcher in social policy at the University of Tartu, the financial needs of the child are more than 200 euros per month. I am concerned about children who are in families with income support, who live in deep poverty, because the universal child benefit does not apply to these families. However, the Family Benefits Act states that child benefit is provided to partially compensate the parent for the costs of raising the child. My question is: how can a child cope with 61 euros a month, perhaps for months, perhaps for years? We are honest that also the recipients of the minimum wage...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U75	Please, just a minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U76	Thank you. This 61 euros is not the idea of entanglement in one figure. If you so rhetorically throw them to the left and to the right, you know very well that this 61 euros is the calculated rate when you talk about income support and about 80% of what you mean by 61 euros. If we look at income support payments, the average payout is more than twice the income limit. In this sense, you don't want to throw these numbers to the left and to the right here. Of course, municipalities must have a normal support scheme. I have also repeatedly said in this Chamber that income support is a last resort, an additional state-funded measure. When we talk about municipalities, when we talk about how to improve children's well-being, we start with simple things, start with kindergarten food, start with kindergarten, start with school food. These are the things that the municipality can do. Why don't you ask any government where they are? I know a lot of municipalities, most of them are people who come to help their people, help pay for a day-care place or for a daily meal. It's perfectly normal. Income support is additional and last state support. If I look at income support statistics, income support analysis, the vast majority of income support applicants receive income support 1 to 4 times a year. A very small percentage are those who receive support throughout the year. I believe that the questioner also has the study carried out by the University of Tartu concerning income support. In this sense, binding ourselves to our livelihood does not give us anything. We need to look at the whole scheme, the whole system, whether the municipality is offering vulnerable families the opportunity to go around, whether it is offering food. It can't be that we take one number, we take the limit, and we ask how it can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U77	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Indeed, there are a number of measures that are designed to reduce child poverty, but nevertheless we can see that child poverty persists. Child poverty is caused by a number of problems, all of which form such a holistic complex, as has been said today. As Minister of Social Affairs, do you see that there is a need to increase financial resources to solve the entire complex? And if you see that there is a need to increase the financial volume, what would it be worth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U79	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Let's continue with the questions. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U80	Thank you. Any additional opportunity will help families with children; there is no doubt about that. Of course, when I look at statistics, I also think that first we need to deal with the structure of the economy and the availability of jobs. All data show that when a person gets a job, in most cases they come out of the risk of poverty. Much depends, of course, on pay, but in most cases they come out. If we are still talking about child poverty, of course it is a problem. This is a problem in most Member States of the European Union. If we take statistics again, Eurostat data published in 2010, what do they show us? They show that the average number of children living in relative poverty in the European Union is 21%, with 17% in Estonia. There is only Denmark, Finland, Slovenia, Sweden, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and Austria ahead of us. Everyone else, including Germany, France and Great Britain, is behind us in terms of relative child poverty. The measures that we have taken in Estonia are effective. Yeah, there's always more, of course I'd like to pay more. But, as I said, social transfers have helped us reduce relative poverty among children by 40%. These measures are effective, so family benefits for the whole of their scheme, parental benefits, pensions, all the social transfers that we pay will contribute so much that you can see that we are in the eighth place in Europe. Seven countries are ahead, we are the eighth, and the other 19 are worse off in relative poverty indicators than Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U81	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, please register after my hammer strike for a free microphone speaker. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U83	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, good fellow Members of the Riigikogu! Estonian society often discusses political culture and ethics on the one hand and the trust and credibility of the Riigikogu as an institution on the other. I believe that each of us 101 will give one piece of this mosaic, each one of us should have a heartache if this trust decreases or we are spoken badly. But before you speak for 101, each of us has to look in the mirror. I have had a long discussion on this and also discussed it with the President-in-Office, Ms Ergma, and I see that together we have a great deal of room for improvement here. But as I said before, before you speak on behalf of others, you have to look in the mirror and say what you have in your heart and soul. Today, indeed, there was such an event that I and three of my former party partners left the Central Party Group. As a small victory, we can say that we brought back Kalle Laanet, the so-called centralist group, who was lightly abandoned by the Centre Party Board and threw him under the window, but rather with humor. In political culture, we have reached the point of understanding that the fight between us and the fists in the Centre Party will not take Estonian society forward. We need solutions. Let's be honest, the heathens and the Black Mountains didn't choose me in the Riigikogu to keep me quiet. But our political party policy so far has clearly been that whoever is not silent will simply be expelled. On the other hand, we must say that we have not been exemplary in increasing the trust and credibility of the Riigikogu when we assign mentors to each other. As a voter, I honestly admit that I would not give my vote to an ambassador or potential ambassador or candidate who will come to the Riigikogu to represent me and who I have chosen among dozens, if not hundreds of candidates, and later he will be assigned a mentor. I think this is a step in which we literally ridicule not just ourselves, but all 101 Members. This is wrong and such jokes should still not be allowed in the major league of Estonian politics. Even if they're the moment they're made, maybe they're funny or a little bit humorous. Thirdly, when someone decides to make different choices, politicians, my good benchmate or someone else's cloning, this is once again a story where we can all think together, look inside us, look around us. Should we talk in Estonian society about cloning some members of the Riigikogu in nine months? I really do not agree with such claims. As a whole, it seems to me at such moments that it is not just a party, it is not a question of my benchmate; it is already a question of the whole Riigikogu in general, but of the Estonian state in general. What Parliament looks like is often the face of Estonian society. I believe that no political party, be they social democrats, the Centre Party, the Reform Party or the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, should ever forget all possible steps, every possible decision. We are the face of the Estonian people in this Chamber, and let us think about this not only today, but also tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the month, the year and ten. Thank you, and have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-09_U84	Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.24 p.m.
