ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, ladies and gentlemen, the presence check! 47 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 54 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by asking questions. The first question is from my colleague, Yana Toom, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I recently had a meeting with a kindergarten in Tallinn. This is where kindergarten children came and asked questions. One five-year-old girl raised her hand and asked: 'Please say, Mrs. Toom, what about the funding of political parties? " I got sick because when a five - year - old child asks for it, of course, he did not understand what he was saying, it is a clear sign that this problem is strongly raised in society. We know that we have 41 or even more proposals on the funding of political parties, and we also know your view that legal persons should be able to donate to political parties. But has this been discussed at government level? And do you have any clear idea how to proceed with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U4	Thank you. We haven't discussed this in the government. We know that there are many people in the Riigikogu who are very enthusiastic about this subject, and we do not want to interfere with this discussion with the positions of the government at the moment. The issue of political party funding is topical in all countries around the world. At the same time, the question of what is to be achieved must always be raised first. What is the purpose of changing the financing scheme? In this case, we must always compare, i.e. also look at how Estonian political parties, Estonian state institutions, parliament, government and local authorities stand out in the context of other countries of the European Union. Whether the proposed changes will bring us closer to those countries where confidence in national institutions is greater or whether the proposed changes will bring us closer to those countries where the national institutions are not trusted. Estonia has the space for moving forward. Compared to other Member States, Estonia's public administration in the European Union is highly valued. According to the Estonian Eurobarometer survey, Luxembourg, Germany, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and I do not remember who they are. Among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, we are clearly at the top of the list. It should also be known that our government is much more trusted than the European Union average, that our Parliament is also much more trusted than the European Union average, that we have 48% support, that we have 28% in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U5	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! It's not like it's a secret that we have all kinds of investigations going on here, and it often happens that at some point, the DA's office says no one's being accused anymore, and they find guilty people whose favor it is that they can't blame them. In short, it's like a person gets out, but as the media says, the skeleton's in the closet. Is this not, in your opinion, partly due to the fact that we still lack an effective and transparent political party financing mechanism, although our level of trust is perhaps better than in any other country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U7	Thank you. I would not try to explain every phenomenon or phenomenon in society with transparency or transparency in the funding of political parties. There are problems with the proportionality of research activities both in Estonia and in many other countries. In some ways, we can say that many of the problems that we are now becoming more and more topical are common to almost all countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The problems that affected the last parliamentary politicians can be described as a circle of questions relating to the immunity of the MP. The attitudes have been very different: whether the ambassador should be guaranteed a free mandate, as provided for by the Constitution, or whether the ambassador himself or the assembly of ambassadors, the Riigikogu, should give up this free mandate of its own free will or not. Again, I would argue that such issues are quite topical in other countries of Central and Eastern Europe as well. However, the proportionality of investigative activities may not at all be linked to the funding of political parties or to ambassadors. We know that non-politicals and ambassadors have been studied for a long time, and the investigation has ended with a round zero. A high public official has been under intense media pressure for a year and 11 months. In the end, the case is closed, but no one has apologized.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U8	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let us start with Mrs Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I have a very simple and brief question. How do you assess which restrictions currently contained in the political party financing scheme must necessarily remain and what more needs to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U10	Thank you. These restrictions, which currently exist, should, in my opinion, necessarily remain. I do not understand the proposal to limit, for example, cash donations. Donations to political parties need not be made in cash at all. I do not think there is a need to limit what needs not to be done at all. At the same time, I think it would be worth at least discussing whether it is necessary, whether it is reasonable or not, when it comes to funding political parties over the ban on companies. If we compare European countries with each other, we will see that those countries where the funding of political parties is prohibited for businesses are outnumbered, and the countries where companies are allowed to fund political parties are in large majority. There are restrictions on the size of donations. These restrictions have worked in certain cases, but there is also a great deal of practice where restrictions have been circumvented. In the United States, for example, the Super PACs are extremely powerful. These are associations that are not specifically linked to any candidate, but are able to mobilise sufficient human and financial resources and these resources can support one candidate under certain conditions or turn against that candidate. The question immediately arises as to how to control these foundations, non-profit organisations that are not affiliated with the candidate in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U11	I would like to ask Mrs Vassilyev for the last question registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U12	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I also have a relatively specific question: how do you feel about election expenses in Estonia being too high or not? And do you support the idea of social democrats restricting electoral spending?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U13	Thank you. As the chairman of the party, it seems to me that they are too big. And as party chairman, it seems to me that the Reform Party has been more popular before the elections, not always, but in recent times than on election day, and it is amazing that even after the elections, the Reform Party has been more popular than on election day. I am grateful to all the voters who have supported us on election day, but I could now make a frivolous proposal to abandon the electoral campaigns at all, because it would certainly be a useful proposal for the Reform Party to get more votes. Restrictions have led to very different outcomes in different countries. For example, I do not know whether the assertions are true or not, but I refer to a specific article which states that, during the previous parliamentary elections in Lithuania, the proportion of people who did not have a clear political preference was greater than in previous years. And a specific analyst claimed that this was due to the ban on paid radio and television advertising in Lithuania prior to previous parliamentary elections, focusing exclusively on debates. Since every person is not so interested in a political debate that he can observe an hour or two hours of debate, many people did not shape any preferences. They did not identify with any political power, and this identification with those institutions that were manned by political forces did not come after the elections. It also explains why, according to the Eurobarometer survey, the institutions in Lithuania are very unreliable compared to other countries, including Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue, but I think that we will continue to deal with this issue. I'm sure it's a very interesting subject worth discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U15	The next question is from my colleague, Neeme the Great, to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Agriculture! You are certainly aware that there are only a little over 1300 Tori horses in Estonia in the endangered breed population of almost 700 horses. The Estonian Horse Farmers' Society is the largest development society in Estonia, with more than 380 members and 180 of them either have a tori horse or are directly involved in breeding and breeding the horse. By decision of the Director-General of the Veterinary and Food Board, the recognition of the Estonian Horse Farmers' Association as the keeper of the tori horse's herd-book and as the keeper of the breed was suspended on 4 October. The reason was that EHS had not submitted a breeding programme in accordance with the law. However, it is known that the programme has actually been presented. Hence the question: why was the EHS-enriched breed conservation and breeding programme not taken into account? Why did VTA go this way to stop EHS' recognition rather than, in cooperation with EHS, supplement this conservation and breeding programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U17	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the VTA has made such a decision, but I do not think that this decision has been made lightly. There are a great many shortcomings in the programme proposed and, to my knowledge, the VTA has repeatedly turned to the horse-growing society to address these shortcomings. Despite repeated enquiries and communications, the shortcomings have not been remedied: neither those concerning the submission of certain documents and annexes, nor those such as the mismatch between the data of horses which have been revealed during the inspection and those actually submitted. These deficiencies are of different types and the Food and Veterinary Office has now suspended the EHS' recognition until the precept has been complied with. As a minister, I do hope that a solution will be found here and that these rights of the horse-growers' association will be restored as soon as possible so that they can continue to act in accordance with the law and receive the support provided to them in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U18	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U19	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As far as I am concerned, the EHS has actually submitted a revised programme of improvements resulting from the precepts on 24 September. For some reason, this was not taken into account, but a decision was taken to suspend recognition. The second aspect is still on the point. What is the justification for the need to recognise the third breed of the Tori breed in the breeding book of horses if the history of the breed and the analysis of the gene pool carried out by the University of Earth do not actually confirm the development of such a course?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U20	Thank you. This, of course, is not a political issue. Regrettably, during my term of office, I have had to discuss different breeds here, and I have also come to the point in the Committee on Rural Affairs that we have begun to vote on whether or not, for example, the fanged landrace has survived. Now we have reached the same distance as horses that we must start to decide politically whether one or the other breed and breeding direction have survived or not. It can still be the decision of scientists and experts. You have quite rightly pointed out one part of the scientific opinion here, but there is another part of the scientist who thinks differently. The Food and Veterinary Office has set up a Commission to address this problem. You're probably referring to the old tori breed and the direction of its preservation. This request was not accepted in 2010. In 2012, a special panel of experts was set up to conclude that it is reasonable to open and grant the right to maintain a breeding book and that this right exists in the preservation direction of the old tori breed. As a politician, I cannot appreciate it, and I can assure you that there is no word about it in the political programme of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union. This issue is not political in my opinion, it must remain a dispute between scientists, and I fully trust the Food and Veterinary Office, the Commission that has been set up and their proposal. I understand that there are different interests in the sector, because all of this also concerns financing, the redistribution of money, etc., and that is why these disputes are very acute. But believe me, there is nothing political in there, and I think it would be right for us to stick to what the Committee of Experts has proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U21	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U22	Thank you, Madam President. It is not the subject of a very deep political struggle or controversy here, but the preservation of a tori horse as a cultural horse is certainly a cultural and also agricultural policy issue in itself. To date, there has been a great deal of confusion and misunderstanding. As a result, it can be argued that the breeding activities of the breed of the tori horse are at risk and that the breeding premium for 2013 is questionable. Does the Minister of Agriculture personally agree to contribute to ensuring that this confusion does not adversely affect the breeding book and breeding activities of the tori horse? If so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U23	Thank you. It's not that big of a mess now that you're trying to describe. Here there are different interests and different opinions of experts. Personally, I have dealt with this issue several times, i.e. at various meetings, I have met different parties. We have also set up a special round table for the horse economy or the horse sector, to which we have involved all the organisations involved in horse breeding, starting with the tragedy union and the association of sports horse-growers and ending with the association of horse-growers. So all parties are involved, and our concern is not only the tori horse, but the survival and preservation of horses of the endangered breed at all. I dare say that the situation here has improved considerably, because a few years ago we introduced separate support for the endangered breed of horses, and this has given confidence to those who hold the endangered breed. In my opinion, we have solved a number of problems with this. As far as the breeding trend is concerned, we also have separate breeding support. This is done for different purposes. I think that there are rather problems between individuals, in a sense also between different organisations and different interests, we will probably overcome them. In my opinion, we currently have the biggest problem in this sector with Tori Horse Farm, with which a long-term lease agreement has been concluded, but our partner has not actually fulfilled its obligations for a long time. This agreement was concluded in time as a rather weak agreement, where the interests of the State are not well protected. Many issues have been left unregulated and we are facing a serious dispute here. I dare say that the state will probably take the initiative and propose that this agreement be terminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U24	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Kajar Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U25	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As a horse farmer, I welcome the emergence of this round table, and I hope that it will really work, because it has actually been expected for a long time. But the Estonian Horse Farmers' Society is known to hold several other herdbooks, including the Estonian horse, in addition to the tori horse. I ask whether, as far as you know, there are problems with holding other herd-books, or whether these problems are related only to a tori horse.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U26	Yes, there are indeed different herdbooks. I'm about to find out what part of the EHS recognitions have been suspended and in which part they have not been suspended. It's not like I can tell you everything right now. His recognition as holder of a herd-book for the universal and breeding direction of the tori horse and as owner of the endangered breed for the all-purpose of the tori horse were suspended. Approvals have not been suspended for the rest of the herd-books, so the rest of them still have rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U27	And the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, It is sad to hear that bigger problems are emerging with the so-called 'athetic' tori horse. I have a very simple question: what have you personally done to help this old tori breed, and what subsidies will be maintained, if any, for their horse owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U29	Thank you for your question. I am sincerely glad that the Riigikogu has such a great interest in horse breeding and the horse economy. But maybe you're not exactly informed. In fact, the situation in this sector has improved significantly, both in terms of the number of endangered breeds and the overall number of horses, both increasing. So your initial assessment that this has gotten worse isn't true. However, this does not mean that we do not have problems. There are problems, and if you ask me what I've done personally to solve them, I haven't gone to horse riding, but I've dealt with these organizations. As I answered one of the previous questions here, I have also called a round table on my own initiative, where we are trying to tackle these various problems, I would rather say that the contradictions between organisations should be resolved so that we can develop this sector peacefully. There is no confusion, the sector is developing, the number of horses in Estonia as a whole has also increased. So the situation is definitely somewhat better than it was six or seven years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U30	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U31	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. In today's Question Time, we will start a dialogue on next year's budget. One very clear question that comes from most members of the Riigikogu is certainly what will happen to the salary increase of teachers in the hands of the government and the Riigikogu next year. This wage increase and burden were also the main issues of last year's strike. There are a number of statements of opinion on this from different self-governances who say that it is not actually possible, at local level, to guarantee this 11% promised, because real wage increases only need to be 5%; the rest must be brought together by the municipalities themselves. Perhaps, within Question Time, you will explain to the general public how this next year's wage increase will be and whether the burden standards will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U33	Thank you for your question. I am only dealing with the role of local governments in the increase in teachers' salaries, because this is probably the most topical issue. But all the general trends that I describe also concern teachers in public schools, whether in vocational or general education institutions. The local government support fund has 200 million euros, which goes to education grants. According to the PGS, there is money for teachers', directors' and teachers' salaries, investment support, textbook support, school meals and further training. This money is divided in different proportions according to the decree of the Government of the Republic. Given that the increase in teachers' salaries is not only the Ministry of Education and Research, it seems that the priority of the Estonian public can also be estimated according to the support received by our teachers, not to mention the simple analysis of teachers' salaries, the Ministry of Education and Research has planned to increase the proportion of the education allowance paid by local authorities for teachers, directors and teachers by 11.1%. Such a bill comes to the tables of the Riigikogu, or rather it is already on the Riigikogu tables. It is true that this sometimes means reducing and redirecting other amounts of education. How exactly? The 5% wage increase you mentioned will be increased by modulation to an overall increase of 11,1%. Time's up, so I can't really answer that question. If you keep asking, you'll get answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U34	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U35	Thank you. I also noticed that you were running out of time. Indeed, two minutes is a short time. I'm sure I'll give you two minutes to explain. In addition, there have been quite a number of contradictions and disputes over the likely plan for the following year, with which the Government of the Republic will define only one teacher's grade. When you look at the approach of educators on this subject, at least how is the minimum wage guaranteed as of 1 January 2013 for the older performers who currently have a significantly higher salary than EUR 715?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U36	Indeed, the government has proposed, rather, the Ministry of Education and Research is proposing to the government to raise the minimum wage for teachers to EUR 715, which is higher than the current grades of junior education and pedagogy require. It is true that the minimum wage level of a teacher-method is significantly higher, but no one plans to reduce it. This rate of pay is guaranteed for teachers and pharmacists as long as they are allowed a corresponding degree of accreditation. We estimate that the teacher's average salary should be 20% higher than EUR 715, or local authorities should have EUR 860 per teacher. Out of this EUR 860 you can pay a minimum wage of EUR 715, a teacher-method wage rate or an even higher wage rate, just as the school administration decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U37	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will come back to the end of the first question when the time has run out. You said that part of the raise comes from extra resources, part comes by redeployment. There is, of course, quite a lot of concern about this redeployment. That is understandable, since every municipality is planning its own budget now. One of the concerns is the issue of support specialists, i.e. logo beets, psychologists, social workers, perhaps also assistant teachers in some places. I therefore ask whether the concentration of education costs next year on teachers' salaries can lead to a situation where the salary of a social pedagogy, psychologist or logo beet in a local school is not paid out of education funds and the local government must find additional resources for this, which may be quite difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U39	According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the state budget supports the remuneration of teachers, directors and teachers. The Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act does not provide for the remuneration of support specialists as an obligation of the State. It is true that, in previous years, it has been considered possible, at the level of the government regulation, to reward support specialists if the salary allocated to teachers, directors and teachers is exceeded. I think that this ambivalent situation is not reasonable and it would be wise to provide for the remuneration of support specialists unambiguously in the basic school and upper secondary school law. When the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act reach the Riigikogu table, you will be able to deal with this issue. I would point out that additional public budget resources must also be found to cover the commitments made by the State in order to make additional commitments. In addition to the approach of providing support professionals' positions in all educational establishments, we in the Ministry of Education and Research believe that in many cases, both in terms of quality and efficiency, it is more appropriate to provide support specialists' services on a centralised basis at the county level. The development of such a network has started and should continue, including in the coming financial period from the European Union's Structural Funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U40	Since this question is obviously of great interest, I promise five questions registered on the spot. Let's start with colleague Tarmo Tammes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we know, part of teachers' wage increases should come from abolishing the investment component that has been in place for schools so far. I ask: in the future, how should those municipalities who have hoped that they would receive this money each year and who have taken out loans to clean up the school house? How should they behave in the future, and how can they continue to believe in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U42	Thank you. The additional resources of 11.1% have not lost the investment component because they are provided for in the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and therefore we do not consider such re-routing to be in accordance with the law. However, it is indeed planned to propose that such an investment component be abolished in the future, as its operation in practice is questionable for two reasons. Firstly, these amounts are clearly not sufficient to solve fundamental problems. 3.2 million euros for all Estonian local government general education schools is not only insufficient, but perhaps even a ridiculous sum. Another problem with such an investment component is the fact that it facilitates unhealthy competition between local authorities, i.e. investment without a clear plan of the amount of educational institutions and infrastructure needed in the 20 to 30-year term. We therefore believe that, along with the amendment to the basic school and upper secondary school law, which abolishes the existing investment component (as has already been said, EUR 3.2 million), a public investment programme would be replaced, including using EU structural funds. In our opinion, this EUR 3.2 million could be used as an additional wage for teachers, if such a proposal were found to be supported by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U43	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U44	Thank you. The issue of financing general education cannot go past the source of income called the parent's wallet. There was also an article in yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht where more was discussed. For example, Tallinn Reaalkool has asked each parent 50 euros for a single project, Tallinn English College 320 euros for a year, and there are other schools where such voluntary and forced donations are requested from parents. This puts parents, as well as children whose families are unable to pay this amount, in a pretty difficult situation, just morally difficult. What do you think of such a source of funding? Of course, I do not speak entirely of the voluntary contributions that many people have made to schools and that have nothing to do with their children studying there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U45	Thank you. Indeed, this is a very sensitive subject. I think we are of the opinion that the genuinely sincere and voluntary support of society to schools in general, but also to schools for its children, is basically welcome. This certainly improves the environment in schools and no financial contribution to educational institutions should in itself be excessive. Unfortunately, as you pointed out, and the Ministry of Education and Research is constantly receiving such official, albeit unofficial, signals, this is, in some cases, a voluntary sense of inevitability. A sense of inevitability in the sense that if the head of the class, the director or any other school-related official turns to the parent in a rather understandable form to ask if your voluntary support has already been transferred or not, there will be psychological pressure, which I do not think is advisable. Maybe it's against the law. In the case of compulsory basic education, but also in the case of general education at upper secondary school level, study at state and local government educational establishments is constitutionally free of tuition fees. So I think we should deal with this problem. Whether it should be at the level of the law to regulate it more precisely, or whether it should only be at the level of explanations provided by the Ministry of Education and Research is not entirely clear. I have also consulted with the Chancellor of Justice and obviously we have to do something because abuses are possible and should be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U46	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question partly relates to the question of my colleague, Mailis Reps, although we have not agreed on it in advance. This concerns support structures and specialists in schools, i.e. logos and psychology. I'm asking you to get the right idea of how 2013 is going to be. I understand from your answer that you consider it appropriate to have such supportive structures in school. What, then, about their funding from 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U48	The funding of local government schools is provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, maintaining schools is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper, except in cases where the Act provides for public support to the schoolkeeper for the activities referred to in the Act. It should be noted that the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act does not currently provide state budget support for support specialists. I believe that the use of the support provided by the Government of the Republic's decree to reward some of the support specialists has led to superstition and ambiguity and this problem should be resolved. I hope that we can do this in the course of the procedure of the state budget, the basic school and upper secondary school law and the corresponding regulation of the Government of the Republic this year, so that it is unambiguously clear by 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U49	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U50	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! As this point in the Riigikogu concerns the financing of education and you sit there alongside the Minister of Agriculture, I ask you about the financing of higher education. As regards the financing model for higher education, sustainable teaching of veterinary education in Estonian at the University of Life Sciences has taken place on the agenda. Are you aware of this problem, and if so, what have you done to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U51	Veterinary training is extremely costly and in developed countries it is considered reasonable to consider one veterinary training facility per 20 million inhabitants. According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's population is considerably smaller than this, so we need to consider how it is possible to carry out veterinary training in such a way that it does not become unreasonable for the taxpayer. What does that mean? This means that, in addition to the veterinary training that meets Estonia's needs, the development of infrastructure and the related running costs could also be covered by the possibility of starting education in English in order to train foreigners in the veterinary profession. We have discussed this with the University of Earth, an opportunity of this kind. The idea that this means conducting veterinary training only in English and the loss of Estonian-language education is either a position spread by maliciousness or ignorance. Veterinary education in Estonian must remain. Alongside this, and in my opinion, there should be paid English education for those who wish to continue in this field of study. That is the situation. I would point out that veterinary medicine is not the only specialty whose expenditure on such a small country as Estonia is unreasonable. We should consider more extensive international cooperation in such disciplines than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U52	I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Pikhof, the last question registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We have more than 24000 children with special educational needs in Estonia. Among them are many children with special social needs. In short, these are children who do not have family support. You are of the opinion that most children with special needs must be directed to mainstream schools. My question is how regular school teachers should deal with these children. As a rule, they do not have a special education, and this actually puts a heavy burden on teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U54	Thank you, good questioner! Here, too, it is probably a myth that I have not been able to disprove in a regrettable way. Someone is talking somewhere, and it seems to me that you too have heard this talk that the state is planning to mass-deploy pupils with special educational needs to mainstream schools. As you yourself pointed out, there are 24000 students with special educational needs among some 140000 students in general education in Estonia. Special educational needs vary widely. Special talents are also specific educational needs, etc. Of these 24000 children today, some 2,000 are studying in public schools for children with special educational needs. The number of students in public schools for children with special educational needs should not change; this could remain at the level of 2,000 students. However, in each case, it is necessary to examine whether the indications of students studying at a public school for children with special educational needs today are justified in any case. It is reported that in many cases we have children in public schools for children with special educational needs who can also study fully in mainstream schools. At the same time, there are children in mainstream schools who would probably be better placed to study in schools for children with special educational needs, including public schools. So I want to draw down again and say: the country has no intention of massively directing children from'special schools' to mainstream schools. No, it's not! Schools for pupils with special educational needs should remain, also in the public sector. And this is the usual organisational or organizational activity that is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U55	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U56	The next question is from my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U57	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Last week we learned that the National Audit Office demolished the new oil shale-fired power plant to be built in Narva near Auvere in terms of both economic profitability and business related to the construction of the object. In the media last week, accusations of gross violation of the Public Procurement Act, pressure from the Minister of Economic Affairs on the Estonian Energy Council etc. Your comment, please. Is this the kind of power plant we wanted and need?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U58	Thank you. This is the kind of power plant we wanted and we need. I categorically reject the allegations that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, kept members of the Cabinet underinformed. Such claims are not true. The members of the Cabinet were informed of all the facts that were discussed in the Spectator's programme and in the following day's Estonian Express article. I dare say that our information was much more extensive before the decision was made, when information has been passed on to the Estonian people in these two press publications. The construction of a new boiler or two boilers is essential for Estonia. We cannot rely only on connections, although they are also essential to guarantee Estonia's energy security and energy independence. There must also be modern possibilities for producing electricity, and so far electricity production from oil shale is still at the lowest cost in Estonia. All other production methods require substantial subsidies, renewable energy fees. Oil shale energy is still competitive on the market and we cannot leave Estonia with an energy deficit. We must have our own production capacities. In the light of these considerations, the government, with full responsibility, decided to build two new boilers, with the right to abandon the construction of a single boiler, if we could cover energy needs from other sources, such as a nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U59	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U60	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You have told the station that is already being built about building a second block, which has been approved by the Riigikogu, but not by the Ministry. Yesterday, we learned again from the press that in the coming days, or at least within a week, a decision must be made on this second energy block. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U61	Thank you. It is not quite the case that a decision must be made in the coming days. As far as I know, this decision will have to be made in the first half of next year, i.e. whether or not to build a second block. It is still too early to answer that question. We need to cover our energy consumption, the need for electricity to an additional 300 megawatts of some other resources, new resources to be created. As we know, we have planned to participate in the new Visaginas nuclear power plant, where we want to have a participation of 300 megawatts. We hope that this project will, however, be realised, although the risks associated with the project have increased significantly in the light of the referendum in Lithuania. This may be one of the reasons why we tend to favour the construction of a second block.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U62	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! We have an economic minister responsible for energy policy at government level. I was extremely impressed by his statement after Eesti Energia had announced its bids for next year's electricity packages. When the Minister of Economic Affairs, who is the general meeting of Eesti Energia, tells the people or customers that do not buy his main production, the electricity, I was amazed. There have been a lot of problems in energy lately. It is known that the opposition has proposed to the Minister for Economic Affairs to resign. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U64	I am convinced that Juhan Parts is a good Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, the decisions taken in the field of energy have been well prepared at the level of the drafts, the members of the Government of the Republic have been sufficiently informed to make weighty decisions. I would not take your argument as if our minister were calling for no domestic electricity at all. These are other political forces who think that Estonia does not need domestic production so that we can buy electricity elsewhere. There aren't too many buy-in places. We know that there is a shortage of electricity in Finland and Latvia, Lithuania is buying up 60% to 70% of its electricity demand from Russia and currently there is no electricity deficit in Russia. I do not agree with those who want to make Estonia dependent on Russia also in terms of electricity consumption. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, certainly does not think so either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U65	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! For years there have been enquiries and questions to the government, both in this Chamber and outside the Riigikogu, to find out how the full opening of the electricity market will affect the price of electricity to the household consumer. It is now clear to the most ardent demagogue that the sharp rise in electricity prices will come in 2013. I have a question whether the government knows or whether the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has finally mapped out potential failing social groups to help them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U67	Thank you. First of all, it must be made very clear to itself that the 20% increase in electricity prices ahead of the new year is not so much due to the opening up of the market as to the fact that Eesti Energia will also have to buy carbon dioxide emission quotas on the market to produce electricity. The obligation to purchase the quota would have increased the price of electricity even if the market had remained closed. I also cannot agree with those who say that the market could have been opened if Estlink's second cable had already been completed. This opportunity to build the cable and then open the market has never existed for Estonia, because the cable can be built between two points. This second point is in Finland and the position of Finns has always been very clear and firm: they are only willing to invest in cable if there is a free electricity market in Estonia. We ourselves would not be ready to build a cable where electricity would be cheaper than in Estonia. This would be economic nonsense and therefore did not even convince Finns of the EUR 100 million promised under the The Baltic Energy Market Connection Plan. They were convinced by the law adopted by the Riigikogu. Thus, opening up the market is the responsibility of the Estonian state, which was taken when Estonia joined the European Union. We have moved to a free market economy in all areas of life. I am sure that in this last area too, which appears to be a rudimentary area, we will be successful in the transition to a free market economy and, ultimately, we will all win from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U68	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U69	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Given the fact that oil shale is one of the few valuable natural resources, its high energy value, and that it is possible to generate high added value for oil shale, for example in the production of oil shale oil, which is actually already being made, is it reasonable to burn such an important resource in an oven inefficiently? Or is it time to make pragmatic decisions, review all energy policies and make the best use of our natural resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U70	Thank you. I fully agree with your statement. Of course, our natural resources must be used efficiently. The burning of oil shale in boilers is much more effective in using natural resources to produce electricity than was the burning of oil shale in old boilers. It is not possible to take an unambiguous view, which we have in common and which I have spread myself, that oil shale oil production is guaranteed that it is certainly more profitable than electricity production from oil shale. As we know, the EU Motor Fuels Directive is currently being prepared, and at least in the course of discussions, there is a clear dominant view that, for example, Canadian oil sands produced from motor fuels could hardly be marketed on the European market at all. Our oil shale motor fuel production is not fundamentally, technologically, or so-called carbon dioxide from oil sands. We all know all kinds of sayings about not hanging all the clothes on a nail or putting all the eggs in one basket. This is also the case with the use of oil shale resources, and risks need to be dispersed. It is also reasonable to produce electricity, I say again, the cheapest electricity in Estonia, from oil shale in the future. Let it be said that this kettle must also be capable of burning biomass, or wood, to 50%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U71	Now the last very brief question on the ground from my colleague, Mrs Vasiliyev. Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U72	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. I'm still forced to make a correction. Good Prime Minister, you said we didn't have to pay for oil shale electricity. It's not quite correct. In fact, we have given and will continue to give free CO2 quotas and we will also expand our share capital in anticipation of negative capital production. My question concerns one of your arguments. You categorically reject the statement in the Estonian Express that the Minister of Economic Affairs kept the government in the dark. Are you categorically rejecting the claim that this procurement has been subject to a breach of the Public Procurement Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U73	Thank you. This procurement has been carried out by Eesti Energia. This has not been carried out by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, and it has certainly not been carried out by the Government of the Republic. So on matters relating to the procurement procedure, please contact those who have carried out the procurement or those who supervise the conduct of the procurement. I certainly do not agree with the argument that we will expand the share capital of Eesti Energia in anticipation of a negative return. Even the most pessimistic forecasts predict a positive return on the new boiler. Only that the company has not satisfied the level of this positive return, they have applied for a higher profit margin. And if they have not found this profit margin in their forecasts, they have applied for a carbon emission quota to be granted free of charge to a company which would guarantee them the expected positive return.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U74	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Question time's over. Thank you, colleagues, for asking questions and thank you, Prime Minister and Members of the Government, for answering. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U75	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! For years, both in this Chamber and outside the Riigikogu government have been asked to explain how the full opening of the electricity market will affect the price of electricity consumed by the household consumer, which will be further determined whether social groups have been identified, who may be in trouble, and how the state will soften this savage price increase. There are still no answers. Moreover, the government has often killed the subject in the bud, accusing the questioners of causing panic. However, it is now clear to the most ardent demagogue that there will be a sharp rise in electricity prices in 2013. As the coalition has not taken any steps to resolve this situation, the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu and the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu will initiate a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act in order to ease the transition to an open electricity market by reducing the renewable energy fee paid by both domestic and commercial consumers. The aim of the draft is to reduce the price of electricity to 13% for a person in Estonia. If, under the law in force, the cost of renewable energy support is covered by the electricity consumer, the cost is covered by the State according to the draft. For example, the average Estonian family consumes 3500 kilowatt-hours of electricity per year and spends 413 euros on electricity on the basis of the current price of Eesti Energia. In 2013, the annual electricity bill of the average family will increase to EUR 476 or EUR 63. This bill reduces the average family's electricity bill by 41 euros per year. Thank you in advance for supporting this draft and I hope that there will be plenty of cooperation and sober peasantry in the future procedure of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U77	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U78	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We're all probably worried about a health care worker strike right now. After all, health is the kind of thing that affects all of us. When people get together, they don't want each other's health for nothing. They do so not only by meeting but also by e - mail, by mail, and by communicating with a mobile phone. Health is still health, that's all that matters. The disease doesn't cry out when it comes, except for psychiatric problems, they cry out. A total of 10,8000 psychiatric diagnoses were diagnosed last year. Clearly, however this strike goes, the healthcare system needs additional funding, as confirmed by several external and internal experts. The Centre Party, too, cannot sit around in these difficult times, do nothing, simply criticize, but shoulder down. So, we are presenting a draft amendment to the VAT Act, where we propose to amend § 15 and § 16 of the VAT Act. The point is this. Health care providers, or hospitals, are currently unable to offset VAT because they are final consumers. We propose that healthcare and related goods be taxed at 0% VAT, which gives hospitals the possibility to refund VAT. That would give us EUR 36 million a year. Our previous legislative amendment (which provided for 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco to be passed on to the Health Insurance Fund) will have an impact of EUR 74 million and, if you add EUR 36 million, it would be quite good support for our health care system. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U79	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. In order to introduce this, I will read you an excerpt from the verbatim of the meeting of the parents of the Russian Gymnasium. The mother of an eighth grade student speaks to Irene Käosaar, Head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. Says the mother of the eighth grade student: 'I speak Estonian, but here I will speak Russian so that everyone can understand. I have a child in tenth grade, but he does not speak Estonian. Most children in our class do not speak Estonian. " The Käosaar says in return: " How do you know that he does not speak Estonian? Who does he have to speak Estonian to, with you? " Mother asks: " How can a child learn biology if he does not understand what is written in the textbook? ' A representative of the Ministry of Education and Research responds: 'Children do not need to read a biology textbook. Do you need a textbook for a teacher as methodological help? It is a major problem for us that the teacher teaches the textbook, not according to the curriculum. 'Jne, et cetera. It was a very exciting conversation, believe me. In this regard, we have a number of questions for Mr Acousticum. Kill Russian Gymnasium is the flagship of the immersion. Teachers at this school teach other teachers in our country how to teach by immersion method. However, the results of this school are not very good: they are 114th in the national ranking. We want to know when the Ministry of Education and Research intends to respond to such signals and on the basis of which studies children are currently taught according to the late immersion programme in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U81	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Waste Act, initiated on 16 October, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment; the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a draft amendment to the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, initiated on 16 October, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; the Estonian Centre Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated on 16 October, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U82	We can start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? Please, Mr Toobal, as representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U83	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, At the second reading of the draft, I told you how promisingly the work of the electronic election team started. The idea and the target were noble and quite correct, but unfortunately it was only a short time before they were achieved. I am very sorry that until at least 2015, the basic introduction and introduction of the e-voting verification system has been postponed. This is a fundamental mistake, which basically makes all the work so far pointless. The lack of the possibility to check its voice also contradicts the recommendations of European observers. The control system is crucial precisely because online voting has risen from popularity to second voting, and this popularity makes e-voting a fascinating target in the eyes of attackers. Just last week, Estonia faced cyber attacks, allegedly led by a school student from Väike-Maarja. Several speakers in the IT community have stressed that such protests can become much bigger and more aggressive and are a kind of demonstration. Ladies and gentlemen, What does such a demonstration mean in terms of democracy and fair elections? What if the IT-guru put their heads together and put all the e-voices in the trash bin during the election? Or what if people's choices are turned on their heads and their voices switch? I don't think any of us would want that. Internet security was and will remain a serious problem. I am concerned by the expert opinion that mass attacks against electronic voting in the 2013 elections are easier to achieve than ever before. As we move forward with the current, uncontrolled concept, we will have no reliable means in the future to detect such attacks in full measure. I recall that, at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 17 January, experts, including the Election Commission of the Republic, confirmed that there is an ability to make a technical solution for the verification of electronic voting ready for the 2013 local elections. It therefore remains unclear why the work was abandoned. In my opinion, the name of this bill is 'I don't want to be honest again'. The Centre Party will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U84	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Herkel, as a representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and the Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Priit Toobal and others! At second reading, we have already responded to these arguments from the Centre Party. I think, as a rapporteur, I have explained properly why it is appropriate to take such a step, that we first try out the electronic voting verification system in local elections and hope that this will indeed be a fully-fledged mechanism in the 2015 Riigikogu elections. I will not repeat these arguments. However, I find it strange for the Centre Party to vote against the bill. I can understand that one party has come to mind that e-elections are not suitable for them, and they are against this method of election at all. However, to oppose the draft, which is taking steps to make the electronic voting system more secure and reliable, not as long as you may wish, but I do not understand it. I call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U86	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We are going to prepare the final vote. Since the draft law requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, we will, please, check the presence of the Riigikogu! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. I will put to the final vote draft law 186 amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Constitutional Committee. Please vote! 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U87	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft law amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 204. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U88	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I would like to ask Terrje Trei, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to wait for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty took place on 19 September. a. First reading completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 3 October. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Committee on Rural Affairs made one linguistic clarification of the draft by presenting the date of adoption of the Treaty, which is the practice of Estonian legislation: part of the text '13. On 30 June 1976' was replaced by the text section '1976. June 13, 1997'. Minor linguistic and editorial clarifications were also made in the Estonian language version of the Treaty. At its meeting on 9 October, the Commission decided by consensus to put a bill of 262 on the agenda of the plenary session on 17 October 2012 and to submit to the plenary assembly the draft text and the language-adjusted texts for the translation of the Treaty. As the lead committee, the Rural Commission proposes to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Terje Trei. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Since there were no amendments to the draft law, we can go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft law 262 on ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U91	The second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Economic and Monetary Union initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At second reading, I will give you an overview of the draft law on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. I will briefly reiterate the Treaty's objectives: to secure the economic basis of Economic and Monetary Union by adopting rules to strengthen the budgetary discipline of the Member States by means of a fiscal agreement, to strengthen the coordination of the economic policies of the Member States and to improve the governance of the euro area. The Treaty is compatible with European Union law and has regard to the 3% reference value for the general government deficit and the 60% reference value for government debt laid down in the Treaties on European Union. The most important element of the agreement is the provision of the government budget balance rule and the automatic correction mechanism. The Treaty is compatible with the Constitution because a balanced budgetary requirement does not undermine the functioning of sovereignty as a fundamental principle of the Constitution. This will ensure the stability of statehood. The draft is in line with and ratified by the External Relations Act. In order to implement the Agreement, it is necessary to amend the State Budget Act. The specific law will be prepared at the Ministry of Finance in the near future and will be adopted in 2014. The agreement is an instrument contributing to restoring confidence in the euro area's economy and public finances and to preventing problems and new risks. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 8 October. a. No amendments to the draft were received. There was no further discussion in the Commission. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 17 October, i.e. today, to conclude the second reading and to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U93	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There were no amendments either. We are going to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft law 249 on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Economic and Monetary Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U94	The second reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Ms Annely Akkermanni, member of the Committee on the Environment, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U95	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed the draft Fisheries Act on 8 October 2012. The Ministry had sent some suggestions for amendments to the draft law. This is particularly because the negotiations on the protection and use of Estonian and Russian border watercourses that took place in the meantime gave rise to one clarification. It was considered appropriate to apply GPS to vessels using a mutant, or bottom seine, for fishing. According to the current status, the use of Peipsil GPS is already working and fishermen have reached such an agreement between themselves. In order to be able to better control it, it was proposed to supplement the Fisheries Act with the corresponding provisions. Similarly, on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, some technical changes were introduced into several sections. The amendments provide for the use of GPS and the collection of data transmitted through it. The list and the procedure for submitting the data shall be approved by the Minister. The Commission voted to send the draft to second reading. All decisions were taken by consensus. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act be included on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 17 October, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft be stopped, to submit a list of amendments to the draft proposal, to the second reading text and to the second reading text to the Riigikogu plenary and, when the second reading is closed, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading of the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 24 October. Finally, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U96	Thank you very much, Mrs Akkermann. This is about my colleague Erki Arrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U97	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable spokesperson! In the committee, this bill went through in a witty way. I am looking at § 23, under which up to three hundred units may be fined in the event of a breach of the GPS tracking system. But does the state help those fishermen who haven't been able to put GPS on the ship? Is there any state aid in response to the implementation of this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U98	In fact, most ships already have these equipment on. This question also arose in the Commission. Andres Talijärv replied that this issue could be resolved with the help of the state, but this issue is not happening now, as fishermen themselves are interested in this system. If you want to see what others are doing, you have to show them what you're doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U99	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mrs Akkermann. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Three amendments to the draft law have been received. Let's go through them. All three amendments have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of bill 255 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U100	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. Siim Kabrits, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Board, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U101	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 9 September and 8 October. The Legal Affairs Committee was invited by the advisers of the Legislative and Development Service of the Ministry of Justice, Berit Loog and Piret Saartee, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Madis Timpson, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, and Andres Shapura, Member of the Management Board of the Landowners' Association of NPO. In the Commission, it was decided to amend § 10 (2) of the draft and to formulate it as follows: 'Section 1 (36) of this Act and § 3 of this Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2013. ' The purpose of the draft law is, in particular, to enable the introduction of new procedural software in the business register. This is because the receipt of paper statements and documents has been reduced to a minimum and there has been an increase in the number of electronic, digitally signed applications submitted via the information system. It is therefore necessary to amend the provisions on the record kept on paper in such a way that they are compatible with the register kept electronically. The draft amends some of the provisions of the Commercial Code without any substantive changes. It amends those provisions which are obsolete and cannot be actually complied with. There have also been changes to the provisions on keeping the register. More substantive changes can be considered to be the reduction of the fine provided for in the Code and the possibility of settling entries from other departments for the registry departments and making entries. The Commission decided to send the draft to the plenary on 17 October, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to the third reading. The third reading could take place on 24 October. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Kabrits. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U103	Thank you. Did the Commission mention what led to the reduction of the fines?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U104	Thank you. The Commission did not mention it, but the explanatory memorandum mentions it. It is fixed that the maximum amount of the fine is EUR 320. If it is understood in the same way from both large companies and non-profit and smaller companies, many smaller companies will have a problem that they will not be able to pay this fine and will simply fail to pay it. The explanatory memorandum states that if this rate were to be reduced, the collection of fines might increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U105	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Kabrits. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 258 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U106	The second reading of the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's fee law and the Civil Status Acts Act begins. Once again, I would like to ask Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U107	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary's remuneration law and the Civil Status Act at its meeting on 4 June and 8 October. Piret Saartee, Adviser to the Legal and Development Service of the Ministry of Justice, was invited to the debate. Let me briefly talk about the bill. The purpose of the draft is to create the prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register, the introduction of electronic registers and files, and the facilitation of access to data entered in the matrimonial property register. The paper register is no longer completed, the processing of submitted applications becomes faster, procedural software exchanges data with other information systems and basic data entered in the register can be accessed quickly and easily. In addition, the procedure for informing the matrimonial property register on selected property relationships will be simplified by marriage with a view to reducing the workload of civil status officers. The main changes to the draft are as follows: There is a presumption that, in the event of a transfer to an electronic matrimonial property register, the possibility of access to the data in the electronic matrimonial property register will be improved, the regulation on the keeping of an electronic matrimonial property register will be clarified and the procedure for submitting data on selected property relationships to the matrimonial property register will be simplified. From 1 January 2013, only an electronic matrimonial property register shall be kept. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2013, when the further development of the procedural software of the matrimonial property register is completed. Paragraphs 21, 30, 34, 35, 38 and 69 of § 1 and § 3 of the Act enter into force in general. The Commission decided to send the draft to the plenary session on 17 October, to propose that the second reading be closed and to send it to the third reading on 24 October. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Kabrits. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft law. Second reading of bill 219 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U109	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. I would like Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture of the Speaker's Board, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The need to amend the Animal Protection Act arises primarily from Estonia's obligation to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, which entered into force on 22 September 2010. Both the directive and the draft aim to strengthen the protection of experimental animals used for scientific or educational purposes by means of three basic principles. Firstly, reducing animal testing and the number of animals used in experiments. Secondly, substitution of animal testing, if possible, by alternative methods. Thirdly, improving the conditions under which experimental animals are kept. As an innovation, the provisions on the protection of experimental animals will also be extended to the use of animals for educational purposes where such action causes pain and suffering to the animal. An important contribution to improving animal welfare is the introduction of additional training requirements for designers of animal testing, animal testing and animal care professionals in order to improve their knowledge and skills. Where, under current law, at least one person involved in an animal test must have appropriate training, the draft requires that all persons in contact with the test animals have received appropriate training. A person who has not received training shall remain able to work under the supervision of the competent person until the training is completed. The requirements of the Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes must be transposed in Estonia by 10 November 2012 and applied from 1 January 2013. Another important reason for amending the Law on the Protection of Animals stems from the obligation to implement Council Regulation No 1099/2009 on the protection of animals at the time of their killing as well as from 1 January 2013. As a result of the new pan-European rules, similar provisions of the Animal Protection Act will be repealed. No major changes are foreseen in practice in relation to the implementation of the above-mentioned regulations. The Regulation regulates both the activities of persons involved in the slaughter of farm animals for human consumption and those involved in the killing of animals during animal diseases. On the basis of new scientific data, additional requirements for the slaughter and execution of animals shall be introduced. All persons working in slaughterhouses who are in contact with live animals shall be subject to appropriate training. The Regulation also lays down requirements for the slaughter of an agricultural animal for personal consumption at home: the person killing the animal must have the skills to do so and the animal must be stunned before slaughter using the method provided for in the Regulation. In addition, the law introduces a mandate rule for the establishment of animal welfare requirements for mobile slaughterhouses. So far, there was no such possibility and there were general requirements which were difficult to apply to mobile slaughterhouses. The reason was that there were no mobile slaughterhouses in Estonia, but hopefully they will be here in the near future. I would specifically like to draw attention to the changes concerning the slaughter of farm animals for so-called religious purposes. As such, the draft concerns only killings where stunning is not carried out in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No 1099/2009, i.e. essentially no stunning leading to unconsciousness at the time of slaughter. From an animal's welfare point of view, killing without prior stunning for religious purposes is an act of avoidable suffering and pain that must be avoided as far as possible. On the other hand, religious freedom, which also includes the resulting exceptions, inter alia in relation to the slaughter of animals, is a constitutional right for people to be respected. In Estonia, the possibility of applying for authorisation for the slaughter of animals for religious purposes is granted only to religious associations registered in the country for the slaughter of animals for members of their association. In doing so, the applicant must justify why it is not possible for a religious association to kill the animal in the so-called normal manner, by prior stunning, and also show how the use of the meat is guaranteed only for members of a religious association. Such slaughter will be permitted only in slaughterhouses and under supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U111	Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. Do colleagues have any questions? No, it's not. I call the Chair of the Rural Affairs Committee, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U112	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft law at its meeting on 8 October. The Deputy Chancellor of Food Safety and Fisheries of the Ministry of Agriculture, Toomas Kevvai, was invited and Sirje Jalakas, Head of the Office for Animal Protection and Breeding of Agricultural Animals, was invited. We discussed bill 288 as a second item in this session. It was precisely the admission of the animal to be slaughtered for religious purposes and its conditions that were discussed in greater depth. The Minister gave a very comprehensive overview of the draft law as a whole. When you read the explanatory memorandum to the bill, you will see that it is very thorough and that it should be enough to understand the bill. Thus, in the Committee on Rural Affairs, it was decided to appoint the Chairman of the commission Kalvi Tõud as rapporteur for the 288 commission, to send a bill to the Riigikogu's plenary on 17 October. a and propose to the Assembly to stop the first reading of bill 288 and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft draft in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act at 10 working days, 31 October 2012 at 18. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U113	Thank you very much. Let's start asking questions. Please, my colleague Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U114	Thank you, good waitress. I am sorry that I have not taken this draft very seriously! Is it known, for example, how many percent of sheep or other animal species this so - called religious departure might affect the overall number of animals slaughtered?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U115	This question was also at issue in the Commission. Vice Chancellor Toomas Kevvai said that this is in so-called proportion to the number of communities, especially Muslim and Jewish communities operating in Estonia. Such organisations shall be allowed to execute a corresponding number of animals for religious purposes, where the animals slaughtered are not intended for sale and may not leave the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U116	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U117	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good colleague! Was there a discussion in the Commission, and have you discussed with livestock farmers how they feel about the implementation of this law, whether they consider it to be one of Europe's 'excessive nonsense' or whether they consider it to be essentially a right and good law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U118	I guess there are some smiling places in the law, like the fact that a chicken has to be drugged before it's killed. Taking a peasant's mind, it can be a very interesting thing to do if you start stunning a chicken before you kill it. But what this law says about killing an animal at home has to be drugged first, we've always been done. There is also a set of rules on how stunning takes place. A commonly known way is to stun with a bolt gun.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U119	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U120	Thank you, Madam President. I couldn't help but notice from your answer that animals killed in this way cannot be taken out of the country. Can you justify why Estonian lamb producers and other meat producers are cut off from foreign markets? This so-called kosher meat is in very high demand and the community that consumes it is growing. Is the loss of the opportunity to sell this meat outside Estonia not detrimental to the interests of Estonian producers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U121	Thank you. This issue was also mentioned in the Commission. We know that one of our neighbouring countries on the foreign market is selling this meat. But it is not a good practice in Europe to move meat out of the country. As a result, our meat did not focus on getting out of the country, but, above all, on the needs of our own communities. Since this method of slaughter is somewhat contrary to animal protection aspects, each country must guarantee the existence of this meat for communities living and consuming meat in its own territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U122	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 288 amendments on 31 October. 6 p.m. First reading of bill 288 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U123	The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Board, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U124	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The bill before you is relatively short as measured in characters. This certainly does not mean that it is not another very good draft. That's what he is. First of all, I will talk about the purpose of the bill. It's very simple and clear. That draft shall establish the post of Advocate General. The purpose of setting up an Advocate General's institution is to improve the qualifications of judicial officials. It improves the quality of the work of courts and enhances the efficiency of judicial procedures, including by ensuring a reasonable period of proceedings. So what's gonna change? The current Courts Act does not lay down requirements for judicial officials, which is why the qualifications and level of consultants currently employed in courts are uneven. Moreover, insufficient funding for the judiciary has not allowed the development of the necessary motivated support structure for the proper functioning of justice. Those who turn to the courts are currently not guaranteed a reasonable period of proceedings, and there are problems with the quality of justice. The establishment of an Advocate General's institution will establish uniform qualifications requirements for officials preparatory to legal proceedings, resulting in an overall improvement in the qualifications of judicial officials, thus improving the quality of judicial work and improving the efficiency of judicial proceedings. The Advocate General shall become a court official with a higher level of qualification, i.e. an Advocate General may be appointed to meet the educational and linguistic requirements of a Judge and have high moral qualities. The Advocate General shall be independent in the performance of his duties, but shall, to the extent prescribed by law, follow the instructions of the Judge. The Advocate General is given the power by law to carry out the acts and decisions which may currently be taken by a judge's assistant or other official of the court (e.g. the assignment of state legal aid, the processing of applications and complaints and the failure to act). As the level of judicial officials is currently uneven, Advocates-General are not automatically mentioned among consultants, but a public competition is launched, where consultants currently working in court can also take part. The Act also lays down a minimum and a ceiling on the salary of the Advocate General. According to the draft, the salary of the Advocate General may not exceed the remuneration of the Judge at first instance and may not be less than half of the salary of the Judge at first instance after the probationary period. In this way, only the best candidates can be appointed as Advocate General, pay the appropriate remuneration, and ensure that experienced judicial officials remain in the judicial system. Finally, I recall that, under the Coalition Agreement, one of the objectives of governance is to achieve the average length of judicial proceedings of a hundred days. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary that the number of Advocates-General before the Court of First and Second Instance is equal to the number of Judges. This would make it possible to increase the capacity of the courts to about double what is needed to achieve the 100-day average duration of proceedings. The EUR 2.5 million allocated by the 2013 State Budget Act to increase the qualitative level of judicial officials provides an opportunity to make the necessary structural changes to achieve this objective. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U125	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Starts with my colleague Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. How do you assess the situation on the labour market, whether the positions of Advocate General can be filled with suitably qualified people and what could be their preparation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U127	Thank you. This is certainly an important issue at the beginning of next year. We will specify the logic of the whole project. However, these people are being recruited by a court of law. But I believe that if necessary, we will include a staff search company in this work, and we will probably start this work primarily in Tallinn and Harjumaa. We are talking about about 70 people, or even a bit more people, who should actually have a law degree at a master's degree level. This is certainly a difficult task, but I think it is possible to find these people. Even now, consultants with an appropriate level of education can compete for this position. As of now, the salaries of the Registrars are slightly above EUR 500 and the consultants pay on average over EUR 800. The level of remuneration of the Advocate General's office is still higher than the equivalent of EUR 1 500. This means that there may be hope for an appropriate level of law enforcement in this position, although it is not a secret that skilled lawyers are actually paid much more on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U128	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U129	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I had many doubts when I read this bill and listened to you. The number of judges has decreased from year to year, no new people have been taken in place of retired judges and, as a result, queues are growing in the courts. We're trying to fill that hole with the Advocates General. We do not attract judges, but we create posts for Advocates Generals who do not have the same salary and qualifications as judges. Maybe the queues are starting to grow now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U130	Thank you. If I understood the question correctly, I can make you happy. During my ministry, the competitions have been announced and we are looking for new judges. That's one. Secondly, even in quite good places, competitions for judges have sometimes failed. Lawyers with this skill set may receive a higher salary in the private sector even with a lower workload. So here is also the question of the pay level of the judges, to which we have come and which we have been talking about. If the reform of special pensions is completed, the salaries of judges could rise from the middle of next year according to the Law on salaries of senior civil servants. I do not think that the Advocates-General would go mass to replace the judges and that this would solve all the problems. But I dare say that we certainly agree that if the judges who are the top players in this system are supported by people with such qualifications, some of whom may even become judges in the future, the quality of justice will improve and probably speed up. I think it's a reasonable development in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U131	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U132	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I understand that one of the points of the draft is that we are replacing the court consultants with the Advocates General. The key criterion for improving quality is improving qualifications. Can you tell me how many consultants currently working have a master's degree?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U133	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't tell by heart. I think the data is out there, but I don't know them. This is one of the problems that the level of qualifications of judicial officials is uneven. With the 2013 state budget, for the first time in these long difficult years, human resources can be contributed to speeding up justice. We have taken steps on the side of the procedure and now we have the first chance to contribute more to people. I think that, in any case, this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U134	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U135	Thank you. Good minister! If this overview does not exist, it seems that replacing one name with another is intended to raise the wages of people working in court. Is that the main motive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U136	It's not exactly one-to-one. I didn't say there was no data, I just don't know them by heart, and it would take some time to find them. But that is not quite the case, it is still a fundamental change. If the judges who are, say, the top players of the system, are helped by people who have greater skills (this is why they also have to be paid more wages to be able to work there), then, as you will understand, whoever comes to court, whether it is a common person or an entrepreneur who goes to defend his rights, sees that this is why things are treated better and faster. That's the goal. To overcome this doubt, it should be said that neither people are automatically assigned from one workplace to another. I said that open competitions would be announced, where current consultants could also participate if their qualifications met these requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U137	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, What I understood from you was that this innovation does not mean that the vacancies of the consultants who may be candidates would disappear from the justice system, but that they would be replaced by additional consultants, and that the number of people who actually work in court would not decrease, but rather increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U139	Let's just say there's an increase in the number of people with better qualifications. I think that in the long term, in the course of a few years of reform, the posts of consultants will be lost and the positions of Advocates-General should be replaced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U140	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U141	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft 281, a draft law amending the Law on Courts, on Tuesday, 9 October. Minister Kristen Michal, Madis Timpson, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, and Marko Aavik, Deputy Chancellor of Justice took part in the discussion. The Minister summarised the content of the amendment. That's what he said here today. I don't need to go over it. We asked the Minister and Marko Aavik a number of questions. We have received quite exhaustive answers to them, and we have found that the offer is a necessary interface between the staff currently working in the courts and the judges. There was still a missing link in the form of better qualified people. The office of Advocate General is not a new invention of any kind. When we look at the case law of other countries and international courts, we see that there is this well-known position. The point is that the court takes a number of procedural, procedural decisions when dealing with cases. They all have to be formalised. This means formalising the judge's decisions in a proper legal language. Formalisation according to all requirements requires better qualifications. This is exactly where the Advocates-General will be implemented. I think that this is ultimately a good-for-nothing draft, which will help reduce the workload of judges and enable them to do more in substantive analysis and decision-making. Rather, it is the Advocates-General who shall bear the formality. We decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda on 17 October, today. It was decided unanimously. We also unanimously proposed that the first reading be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 31 October. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U142	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 281 amendments on 31 October. 6 p.m. First reading of bill 281 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U143	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the Act of Attorneys and related amendments to other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to ask Kristen Michal, the Minister for Justice, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U144	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is another very good and constructive draft. To begin with, I look back on history and recall that the Estonian Bar Association was established in 1919. Then there were 35 members of the Bar Association. By the beginning of 1990, there were 183 members, and there are already over 800. The current Bar Act was adopted in 2001 when the Bar Association membership was much smaller than today. I now come to the main objective of the bill. The draft aims to make the organisation of the Bar Association appropriate to the changed situation, as the administrative burden has increased and membership has increased. Nor is the aim of aligning existing law with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market and Directive 77/249/EEC of the Council of the European Communities on the effective exercise of the freedom to provide legal services. I stop at the main changes that will be introduced into the Estonian legal order if this bill becomes a law. The draft will make the three-level membership of the Bar Association two-tiered, meaning that the senior assistant positions of the Attorney-at-Law will be abolished. If the bill enters into force, the barrister's assistants and barristers will remain members of the barrister's barrister's office. The current barrister's parents must pass the barrister's exam by 28 February 2018. Those barrister seniors who don't take the barrister's exam, they think they're helping the barrister. The change of membership to two levels is due to changes in the Bar Act over time, resulting in a difference in the competence of the barrister's assistants and parents, and to the fact that becoming a barrister takes place in practice in two stages instead of the original three-step model. Attorney-at-Law is taken as a lawyer's assistant or senior assistant, and then the barrister's exam is taken. In accordance with the law in force, the aid of an attorney-in-law can be granted a jury examination after two years of activity. The Senior Assistant Attorney-at-Law must have acted as Senior Assistant Attorney-at-Law for at least one year before the Attorney-at-Law exam. If the bill enters into force as a law, the time taken to act as a lawyer will change. From now on, the person must have acted as a lawyer for at least three years in order to pass the barrister's examination. Longer practice is necessary because two years may not be enough for lawyers without previous professional experience to gain the experience necessary to act as a sworn advocate. In doing so, the patron role and responsibility of the attorney-at-law will be increased under the guidance of the aid. Persons who have at least two years' prior legal experience before the admission to the Bar will be admitted to the Bar if the new Act enters into force as Assistant Attorney-at-Law, but they will retain the possibility to take the barrister's examination with the permission of the Board of Appeal after one year's act as Assistant Attorney-at-Law. Upon entry into force of the draft law, the lawyer will be able to authorise the other lawyer to participate in the General Assembly and vote in the decision-making process. The amendment is due to the rapid increase in the membership of the Bar Association, which makes it impossible for the General Assembly, in its earlier form, to argue about substantive discussions and choices. A lawyer may represent no more than two lawyers at the same general assembly other than himself. The same regulation exists in the Notarial Law. The draft also amends the activities of the Board of Appeal and the admission of its members by replacing the current time-consuming arrangements, which focus on the examination of each individual candidate before the entire examination committee, with a written examination of the knowledge. The new examination organisation will make the bar exam more suitable for a larger organisation, allowing for less frequent examinations and for a larger group at the same time. In doing so, the law lays down the basic principles governing the organisation of the examination, leaving the details of the organisation of a rigid examination system over-regulated in the current law to be settled by the Bar Association. Among other things, the draft will ease the ban on advertising for lawyers, sworn translators and patent attorneys by aligning existing law with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market, the Services Directive. According to the Directive, advertising of lawyers, sworn translators and patent attorneys is not allowed to be completely prohibited, so the advertising ban under current law is replaced by less restrictive regulation and allows lawyers, sworn translators and patent attorneys to use radio, newspapers and the internet to advertise their activities. Advertising containing an invitation to conclude a contract shall continue to be prohibited. The draft is intended to be enacted as a law on 1 March 2013. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U145	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U146	How many of these 800 lawyers have stopped their professional activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U147	It's hard to say. I don't know that number, frankly, and I don't operate with vague numbers. I can tell you that later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U148	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns how much advertising is practiced at all. I understand that a decision has been made in Germany to advertise. Please comment on how this is the case in Europe in general. And why is television excluded as a means of advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U150	Thank you. As I described, the ban on advertising will be relaxed, in particular under the Services Directive. The use of certain means of advertising shall be permitted. It is not unusual in itself. In many countries this is still an opportunity to promote their professional activities. The limit is still that, if there are any specific circumstances, they must not be used to promote themselves. I think this is a perfectly normal development, and it certainly does not worsen the quality of the provision of legal services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U151	Please, Mr Kallas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U152	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My second question concerns the examination and the taking of an oath. If the exam becomes fully written, will the taking of the oath be done in a group manner, or will the ceremonial side still remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U153	Thank you. The examination system becomes, yes, more written, but the details will still be arranged by the bar Association itself. That's what we've been saying. Why it gets written, those are the reasons I described. You may know that better than I do because you've taken that exam. In the past, there was indeed an oral examination committee who went together at certain times and so on. In some ways, it is inevitable that if such activities become broader and the organisation is larger, perhaps some processes will formalise. The detailed details are to arrange the bar Association itself. It does not necessarily have to be regulated at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U154	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister of Justice. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U155	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at two meetings: 24 September and 25 September. A substantive debate took place on 24 September. In addition to the Minister of Justice, his advisor, Madis Timpson, and Maret Saanküll, adviser to the Ministry's Office for Legislative Affairs and Development, attended the meeting. During the first debate, we made an organisational decision to get the draft to the big hall last week, but it turned out that there were certain reasons why it could not be done. On 25 September, we decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda today, 17 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be 31 October. All these decisions were taken by consensus. We, too, have admitted that this is a good draft, a draft that has no different interests. Estonian lawyers have approved this draft, it has been discussed at the General Assembly and the bill has also been agreed by lawyers. This draft will manage the activities of their organisation in a reasonable manner. I propose that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-17_U156	Thank you very much. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 273 amendments at 16 o'clock on 31 October. The first reading of bill 273 has been completed and our agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.16 p.m.
