ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Family Act. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! On behalf of the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will refer the matter to our Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. The unbridled growth of violent deaths continues to be a serious concern. The good Minister of the Interior only brought back a month or a half, responding to an analogous question on the board, the fact that in the wider picture, in the context of three years, the number of deaths of violence has been statistically reduced. And surely today, people will end up in accidents much less than they did ten years ago, for example. But when we look at the websites of the Road Administration and the Rescue Board, we see that there has been a very serious increase at the beginning of this year, not by a few percentage points, but in some areas the growth is quite multiple. Not to mention the drug deaths that have been asked about in Question Time from this remote control, the figure is seven times higher in Estonia than in Europe on average. There are many questions that we want answers to from the Minister. Most of them concern measures. We want to hear what has been done in the Ministry of the Interior to reduce the number of such deaths or what has been planned for the foreseeable or distant future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The question is about the standard of living of the Estonian people. In fact, if we look at the electoral programme of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Reform Party, the first sentence reads as follows: 'The purpose of this union is to increase the standard of living of Estonian people. " Now we have been in power for one year, but every day we get more negative news about the standard of living. One news report, based on ILO data, says that the purchasing power of our people is even backwards from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Turkey. So we thought, let the Prime Minister explain a little how the election promises are being implemented and how the Estonian people live, let him tell us. On the fifth question, we also ask how the infamous slogan 'Estonia's five richest European countries' is being implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U7	On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and two inquiries. If the draft law complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. If enquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved the resignation of a member of the Social Committee of Riigikogu Remo Holsmer and the resignation of a member of the Economic Committee and the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and to Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let's go to this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Let us begin by answering the questions on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U8	The first question is about the members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Kadri Simson, Lauri Laas, Mailis Repsi, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korb and Viktor Vassilyev on 15 March. a request for information on a state-damaging land sale transaction with a sponsor of the Reform Party (No 138). I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Laas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry, signed by seven delegates and concerning a land sale transaction, was handed over to the Minister for the Environment on 15 March. The 13th of January in the Estonian Päevaleht read that Jüri Pärnik, a businessman, owned a plot of about 5,000 m2 on a sweet spot in Tallinn, Lükat, at Kose tee 31a. Businessman Jüri Pärnik wanted to use the plot as a so-called exchange for public land auctions. The Land Office had the same land assessed by Arco Varal and Arco Vara experts found that the plot costed just over EUR 150000. Jüri Pärnik disagreed at a lower price and called on other real estate evaluators to help. Domus Kinnisvara offered a price of EUR 293000 and Tõnisson Real Estate Consultant as much as EUR 340000. Thus, the opinions of the experts who worked for the Land Administration and the owner were more than twice different. The County Board has called the evaluators to clarify the situation. It turned out that there were major methodological differences in land valuation. Tõnisson Real Estate Consultant had not taken into account the construction ban zone of the Pirita River or any other legal restrictions. On the other hand, Domus's experts did not notice the view of the sea. Arco Vara suspected that colleagues had used inappropriate comparative transactions to calculate the price. The Land Office requested that the errors be corrected and that new expert assessments be submitted. The price of the land now rose to EUR 214000 on Arco Vara, while Tõnisson fell to EUR 315000. Triin Raudsepp, a lawyer representing the landowner, accused Raivo Vallner of showing the value of the property less than the reality. Finally, the landowner provided the fourth expert opinion: Simus Kinnisvara offered a property price of EUR 269000. Although the Land Office was complaining that Simus Kinnisvara had not followed the principles previously agreed upon in the evaluation, the Minister of the Environment still acknowledged Simus's expertise as the most competent. The main point of our questions is perhaps why the expertise ordered by the private owner was preferred to the real estate expertise commissioned by the state and accordingly the transaction was concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. Madam Minister for the Environment of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions in the order in which they are presented. In answer to the first question, first of all, the Minister for the Environment does not recognise the expertise of one licensed real estate valuer or another as competent or incompetent. There is no such right or possibility for the Minister for the Environment, and there is no reason to interfere with this assessment procedure. In the acquisition of Kose tee 31a immovable property referred to in your inquiry, the Land Office has followed the procedure established by the Government of the Republic decree, which is called 'Procedure of the State for the acquisition and proposal of immovable property containing a protected natural object and the criteria under which the protection regime of the area is considered to be substantially restrictive of the use of immovable property for its intended purpose and the procedures and bases for determining the value of the immovable property'. This regime, approved by the Government of the Republic, provides that if the owner of the property does not agree with the proposed price, he will also submit a valuation report prepared by the licensed real estate valuer and make a proposal in this way. The role of the Land Board is then to determine what is the reason for the differences in the expert valuations, what the pricing policy has been and, if necessary, to agree to order a new valuation report. These principles were followed in the same way as the immovable property you mentioned. First, as you refer to in the introduction to your inquiry, the Land Office ordered the valuation of the real estate at Kose tee 31a from Arco Vara Real Estate Bureau. On this basis, the Land Board also proposed a price of EUR 150790. The landowner contested the valuation report and the expert valuation report and submitted its own estimate that the value of the land at that site had been set at EUR 348957. This assessment was carried out by a licensed evaluator, Tõnisson Kinnisvaraconsultant AS. As these figures show, the price differences were quite high, and so the Land Board asked all the parties who carried out the valuation report for an explanation of the pricing principles. After harmonising the basis of the assessment, the licensed evaluators also adjusted the assessment reports submitted. The results of the valuation were as follows: Arco Vara Kinnisvara Bureau estimated the value of the immovable property at 214800 euros, Tõnisson Kinnisvara consultant AS 315000 euros and Domus Kinnisvara GmbH 264000 euros. Since it had been some time since the initial assessment had been commissioned, a new assessment was decided. As a result of this most recent valuation, Simus Kinnisvara valued the value of the immovable property in question at EUR 269000. The result of this assessment was also submitted by the Land Board to the Minister for the Environment and on this basis the decree was issued. The second question is how it was possible that the evaluations at the beginning of the process differed so much and so many methodological errors were made. This question is actually addressed to property valuers. I will be honest with you that I, too, have come up with such a question and not once. I, too, have had the question of how it is possible that licensed real estate evaluators, all of whom have an evaluation licence, assess the same subject and obtain such different results in terms of their assessment at the same time. How can these results differ so much? The County Board has also drawn the attention of the Estonian Real Estate Evaluators Association to the fact that in practice there are situations where expert reviews prepared by different evaluators differ significantly and asked the real estate evaluators association for explanations or guidance on how the fair value of immovable property could be determined in such a situation. The association, which brings together licensed real estate valuers, acknowledges that there is no good and universal solution to the problem, but has recommended that the Land Administration cooperate with the evaluators in particular and that the basis for the assessment should be reviewed and harmonised after the various assessments have been submitted. This association has also recommended that more experts be involved in the evaluation process, and the recommendations of the association have been followed in this process. In answer to your third question, I have no information as to whether the person you referred to has donated to any political party. That is all I have to add to the answer to this question. The fourth question concerns the veto right of the Land Administration. I repeat, the Land Office is the unit that prepares for and conducts the transfer of state-owned land, a unit which also prepares the decrees by which the transfer of land is to be decided. No one else can prepare these commands. No one else is involved in the preparation of these orders. As this issue is of interest to you, I will also inform you that I have now sent a draft to the coordination circle concerning the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act and the State Property Act. The aim of the amendment is to bring these same land transactions to even more transparent foundations. Two changes will be made to this regard. The first amendment concerns a situation in which the property concerned is a nature conservation property acquired by the current owner in a situation where the land was already subject to conservation restrictions. It has bought a plot of land, knowing that it is a land of nature that is not suitable, for example, for the development of commercial activities, for the development of a large residential building. In such a case, the State has no obligation, nor does it have any right on the part of the owner, to require the State to buy the land already acquired from it by means of conservation restrictions. So the first change is that once you have acquired the protected land, you have done so with full knowledge and you have no right to come and demand that this land be bought out of you. The second amendment concerns the so-called offsetting system. As you know, there is currently a situation in which the winner of the state land auction has the right not to buy the land for money but to offset part of the value of the land under conservation. This amendment was probably made once with such a better objective in mind, but I also consider it reasonable to clarify the law in force in this regard and to switch to a system where the sale of state assets, state land, would only take place through purchasing and selling transactions. This current set-off must be removed from the law and this option would no longer exist in the future. If the State were to dispose of its property in the form of land, it would be possible to acquire it only for money. Such changes have been sent to coordination by the Ministry of the Environment, and I believe and hope that this will help to make these principles clearer and more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U12	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Any questions for the waitress? Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U13	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! If a person has acquired the land and after that there is a restriction on that area, does the State compensate for the loss of income for the person?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U14	Thank you. That is the obligation we have and that is the obligation that remains. If it really is an area where one or the other natural value is subsequently found and because of the finding of this natural value so severe restrictions are imposed that any economic activity is impossible there, then the State must also acquire that land and compensate for the loss of income. But this really only applies in a situation where the restriction has been imposed later, not when a land with a restriction has already been acquired.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U15	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U16	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Inquiries say this is a state-damaging land sale. You explained very carefully the nuances of the evaluation, and so on. Does the Ministry still consider this sale to be harmful to the State or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U17	Thank you. This was certainly not a bad deal for the State. Once again, the state itself does not carry out such an assessment, the state uses licensed property valuers. I agree with the heirs that there are questions when licensed real estate evaluators make such different assessments of the same immovable property. In the case at hand, the assessment report, which was finally based, was the most recent one, and it was not at the same end of the rating scale. It was this, let's say, a mid-term assessment. But, yes, we have also asked the same association mentioned above for an opinion on what this situation is about. The answer is often that the evaluators have not based on comparable parameters from the outset. The bases have been different. Once the bases are harmonised, the differences between the valuations are no longer so drastic. But this deal certainly wasn't a bad deal for the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U18	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U19	Thank you. Thank you for your answers, Madam Minister. I would ask, however, whether in the circumstances described or similar situations, the State should not give preference to the valuation report ordered by the landowner itself. After all, it is the country that has to make the deal and take responsibility for it at the end of the deal; it has a greater role to play in this matter as a decision-maker.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U20	Thank you. The state prefers its assessment. However, as you know, the procedure provides that if the other party does not agree with the State's assessment report, it has the right to challenge it and to submit its own assessment report. In this case, as I have read about these amounts here, the valuation report submitted by the other party at the beginning was significantly above EUR 300000, which is to say that it really was very much inclined to the other extreme. This was not taken as a basis, but both the right to challenge the valuation report and the right to waive any transaction with the State under the other party's procedural rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U21	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Has the Ministry re-tabled the matter and made any conclusions on how to deal with such transactions the next time, so that there are no questionable solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U23	Thank you. This is not a questionable solution. This is a solution that is fully in line with the regime established by the Government of the Republic. This is a solution where the State has not acquired the land on the basis of the most expensive valuation by the other party. So this is not a dubious or dubious conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U24	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment, for answering your questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U25	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Deniss Borodichi, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luigas, Kalev Kallo, Lauri Laasi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velmani. a Request for information on the cuts of the Police and Border Guard Board submitted on 5 March (No 129). I would like to ask my colleague, Peter Võsa, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U26	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, on 5 March, 14 members of the Central Party Group filed an inquiry into the cuts of the Police and Border Guard Board, but I know that all law enforcement across Estonia are also involved in this inquiry. The content of the inquiry. The price of motor fuel has gradually increased in Estonia and has already exceeded the limit of 22 kroons. This increase in costs equally affects the consumer, the business and the public sector. The February 27 newspaper Postimees presented to readers the fact that, because of the rising fuel price, the Office of the Western Prefecture has reduced its mileage by 10% each year in three consecutive years, which means a total of 30% over three years. The same is true elsewhere. The maximum mileage limit of the Prefecture Law Enforcement Office has decreased by nearly 33000 kilometres over the last few years. The police keep track of fuel limits, and the car used by the constables in the Western Prefecture area can only be estimated at 50 kilometres per working day, covering all needs: patrol, procedure, police operations, etc. Police officers themselves have stated that the lack of resources has led to a reduction in community-based police work, and the limited presence of the police leads to a reduction in the sense of security. The presence of the police will undoubtedly discipline and provide security even in traffic. However, the 2011 road traffic accident statistics show that 101 people died, which is 22 more than in 2010. In this regard, we have four questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U27	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. I would like to ask the honourable Minister of Home Affairs, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. I will answer four questions. The first, third and fourth questions are well answered together. The questions are as follows: 'For the coming years, the price of motor fuel will not be expected to fall, but rather to rise. How much does the Ministry of the Interior take into account when drawing up the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board? As Minister of the Interior, how do you assess a situation where police transit has decreased by 30% in the name of austerity? " They also ask for an estimate that the constable has been advised to travel just 50 kilometers [50 km] a day. The last question is: "What is the Ministry of the Interior planning to do to ensure that people feel secure in a situation where police presence is limited? ' First of all, the management of the Police and Border Guard Board has taken into account the possible increase in fuel prices in planning its budget and activities. 2010-2011. Based on the experience of 2008, fuel prices could increase by around 13% per year. Of course, it is not always possible to predict the percentage of price increases; it is not even the best experts on the world market. This is because the price of motor fuel has increased more at times than taxes and also the rise in the world oil market. The growth of the marginals is particularly evident, for example, in the second and third quarters of 2011, i.e. just before and after the increase in VAT rates at the beginning of July. The Police and Border Guard Board shall draw up a budget for vehicles which shall take into account all maintenance costs relating to vehicles. The 2012 budget of the Police and Border Guard Board, the so-called core activities budget, increased by 5.2% of the revenue of the state, i.e. EUR 7 million, compared to the previous year, and the cost of vehicles represents 22.4% of the economic costs, which is 6% more than in 2011. The cost of vehicles shall be allocated between departments and precincts, which shall determine independently how much fuel is purchased and the extent to which the vehicles are repaired or maintained. Fuel limits have also been set for the vehicle or so-called exchange, as well as at the level of the precinct, which parts of the work will be more invested in and which task will be carried out and how the performance of the duties will be planned by the officials. Consequently, some prefectures may also have a specific rate of estimated daily fuel consumption of the vehicle. I would point out here that the departments and prefectures of the Police and Border Guard Board are also guided by the principle that the challenges must be served and the public order guaranteed, in a context of constant fuel price increases. Other activities are planned on an analytical basis, and more and more so at the Police and Border Guard Board as a whole. None of the challenges that require police intervention will be left unanswered, but the reality of the challenge must be clearly specified in the Police Command Centre, the nature of which would be used to assess the resource needs of the event. If the head of a department or precinct cannot ensure that priority tasks are carried out due to a shortage of resources, he can apply for additional resources within the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, in the amount of unexpected increases in fuel prices. Secondly, under limited resource conditions, more and more police activities need to be planned, solutions should be found for how to carry out their activities in a more meaningful, targeted way. For example, in field cases, in cooperation with the command centre and with the victim, it is right to decide how to deal with situations in remote areas, whether police patrols or district police officers need to intervene immediately. In addition to the above, other ways of compensating for price increases are being sought, such as the acquisition of new vehicles that are more energy-efficient and fuel-efficient. In 2011, the police obtained 151 new vehicles by means of a procurement procedure, and this year a further 266 cars, or a quarter thousand, are scheduled to be obtained. In the case of new vehicles, diesel fuel was selected as nearly 95% fuel, which reduced fuel consumption by approximately 30%. As diesel vehicles are close to 8 to 10% more expensive in terms of market price, we can say that the economics of fuel consumption for the entire lifetime are approximately 15%. The country has also taken a clear course to organise large-scale joint procurements between public authorities. As you have heard, some time ago, the Ministry of the Interior, together with many other ministries and their authorities, organised a joint procurement procedure for the purchase of fuel. This was done for the first time and the results of the procurement should be known in the second half of April. The Police and Border Guard Board has also started in 2012 to reduce the depreciation of the vehicles owned by it. The financial savings resulting from this reduction scheme amount to around EUR 180000 per year, which can cover the deficit resulting from the 2012 increase in fuel prices. To close these three questions, there are helping police officers. In sparsely populated areas or on the outskirts of the country, relief police are of great help and are increasingly involved to ensure security. As you know, this activity is very systematic since last autumn. This will be carried out through specific coordinators, both the prefectures and the central authority, the central coordinator of the Police and Border Guard Board. This year, we will contribute EUR 30000 to the recruitment and training of new relief officers and more than EUR 150000 to the acquisition of equipment (i.e. special and uniform clothing). One of the compensatory measures for joining the Schengen area is also the expansion of law enforcement powers, including traffic surveillance, to border guards, which provides an opportunity to make better use of national internal security resources and to involve border guards. This gives the right to react in cases where border guards participate in traffic and detect traffic offences. The second question: 'The limited presence of police patrols in traffic has a negative impact on traffic culture. According to the Ministry of the Interior, what should be done to reduce the number of road deaths that have risen considerably? ' Thank you for this question. I have also dealt with this issue several times in Question Time and in public. I would like to repeat a few points of view. It is clear that reducing accidents, including road deaths, is one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior. To understand this issue, particularly the complexity of reducing road deaths, it must be repeated that traffic surveillance alone cannot improve the situation in traffic. Studies and experts say that police supervision affects road safety up to a maximum of 25%, i.e. up to one quarter. The rest depends on the road user's awareness and skills, the technical condition of the vehicle, the traffic environment, including infrastructure, weather, lighting as a very important subject, i.e. how much can be enlightened in the environment of our cities and other settlements, as well as compliance with traffic rules. It is therefore essential that as many of the parties involved as possible contribute themselves, municipalities, the third sector, the police. As regards the volume of traffic surveillance, I have made it very clear that the volume of traffic surveillance will increase in 2012. This also requires changes in the work processes of the Police and Border Guard Board in order to channel more resources to traffic surveillance. This year it is planned to launch the transition to an electronic field procedure, the implementation of the so-called active e-police. The estimated working-time savings should be about 67000 to 68000 hours per year, which is nearly 31 years of human work, which we can channel towards improving the efficiency of traffic surveillance. In addition, we are changing the direction of the law enforcement police, putting more emphasis on traffic surveillance activities. More police officers specialize in traffic surveillance, and more than 1600 auxiliary policemen are involved in traffic surveillance. There will be a minimum of 100 auxiliary police contributions in 2012. You can also talk about last year. In 2011, the volume of traffic surveillance remained the same as in previous years. In certain areas they even increased, for example, the surveillance activities aimed at catching drunk drivers were 63% more than in 2010. In addition to identifying drunk drivers, patrol activities focused primarily on speeding, detection of drivers without driving rights, control of the use of security equipment and safety of light road users. To conclude the traffic issue. Addressing traffic surveillance directions is also reflected in the number of infringements detected. Identification of traffic offences increased by 5% in 2011. More speed overruns were detected compared to 2010, 27% more traffic offences were detected by light road users, 11.2% more drivers were caught without driving rights, 12.5% more driving under the influence of alcohol. The increase in the detection of offenders was also due to the fact that the police have increased surveillance to prevent road accidents with severe consequences and attempts to influence the attitudes and behaviour of road users. The Road Administration plays a significant role in ensuring all road safety. The Road Administration investigates road users' behaviour and attitudes towards compliance with traffic rules, as well as how to be more effective in prevention and surveillance activities. At the same time, it is clear that the dynamics of the number of infringements and road accidents with serious consequences have also been significantly affected by increasing traffic rates. To conclude, the Police and Border Guard Board received 53 speedometers, 43 recording devices and 36 video cameras installed in vehicles, as well as 12 extreme video cameras, 15 new evidenceal alkometers in 2011. All these devices have been deployed at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. A significant problem, however, remains that, above all, low-level road users do not use security equipment, which we have talked about quite a number of times here. This shows that this year's major challenge is the control of the security equipment for light road users. For example, 16 of the 19 pedestrians who died in 2011 did not have reflectors, so they unfortunately said goodbye to their lives. At the end of 2011, i.e. just in the dark, drivers were left unnoticed and this resulted in a very tragic end to their contact with the driver and pedestrian. So much for the introduction. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U29	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U30	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You talked about traffic surveillance for a very long time, but in fact, I'm more interested in patrols, procedures, police operations, basically the same community-based police work. Do you think it would be possible for the police to use some cheaper fuel, such as the same colored, or blue, fuel used in agriculture? Could this idea be out of the question or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U31	Thank you for that question. I didn't actually mention one thing. In the next budget for 2013, we have all identified the price of fuel separately. Negotiations on next year's budget are under way. In this respect, the focus of your question is certainly very correct, that the Ministry of the Interior's area of government is most concerned with fuel prices. This concerns the Rescue Board, the police are more competitively affected than the authorities of other ministries. Thus, if the price of oil on the world market rises and, as a result, the price of fuel will naturally also change on the Estonian market, then it is clear that police costs will increase the most in comparison with those of other ministries. We are trying to do everything we can to compensate for the increase in fuel prices, to anticipate them as far as possible. We will certainly stand for this in the budget negotiations as well. I do not see very many solutions on this issue that you have put forward. I think that although the Ministry of the Interior has the greatest exposure to fuel prices and costs, there are no other contacts. I'm sure there's a connection between the defense forces and the ambulance, who always has to go out. So there's contact with others, and I don't see much need to change any rules here. We need to look for ways to better plan our activities. Patrols must, in any case, be guaranteed in situations where there is a particular need and, of course, the possibilities for doing so, and all such costs must also be foreseen in the budget. At the same time, I would like to stress once again the idea that the existence of relief police officers in very many parts of Estonia scattered can prevent many challenges. In many cases, first-level volunteers can respond most promptly, so the issue of aid police officers is also of no minor importance in this context. I do not want to stress this because, as you understand perfectly, no volunteer is replacing a professional, but with the involvement of volunteers, we can make the entire police model work much better than it does now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U32	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U33	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! To the question of the recommendation to the county constables with a large territory to travel no more than 50 km a day, you said in response that in the case of security problems, things would be handled in a rational way at the county centre, the policeman would be sent on a field trip if it was feasible, and you arrived very quickly at the help police officers. When it comes to the price and standards of petrol, how much can be passed through, are there sure support available to the relief police so that they can move, too, or is it purely on the surface of good will?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U34	Support for relief officers is provided for their activities. I didn't get to the assistant police quickly, you're wrong, a good member of the Riigikogu. I got there looking at the tabs, exactly eight minutes from now, if I remember correctly. I have explained and tried to point out all other aspects to you, leaving the issue of help police officers emphatically last, because it is an additional resource. In my opinion, it has been used only a little, but it can be very helpful for certain challenges, especially when it comes to first-level responses. In this case, helping police officers can be of great help to good professional colleagues. As far as fuel consumption rates are concerned, I think that within the police authority they are, in a sense, disciplined, in no way restrictive. I also pointed out in my reply that, if there is a need to spend more, in clearly justified cases, to spend more than the indicative fuel limit, then opportunities will also be found within the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board. It is considered that this is not only a question of the budget of one department or of the prefecture, but is found in the entire budget of the Police and Border Guard Board. For example, if it is necessary to compensate for an unexpected increase in fuel prices, which in some quarters in 2011, was really exponential, very fast. One can only confirm what the police leaders themselves have said: everything is done to ensure that every legitimate, meaningful challenge is met, a sensible response within the shortest possible time and in such a way that all needs are met.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U35	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Regarding the traffic situation, several responses indicated that traffic density had increased. This has indeed increased and perhaps the Road Administration has not played its role as well as it needs to. But are all these other factors, such as traffic frequency, the role of the Road Administration and the lack of security equipment, really so important? When I look at the website of the Road Administration, compared to 2010, which was indeed an exceptionally good year, the number of road deaths has increased by more than two times in the first three and a half months and by one third in comparison to the previous year. That's my question. Is it just these remote factors or is the police still lacking in resources and, therefore, more people have lost their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U37	I don't know exactly what you're implying. First of all, in order to be factually accurate, I spoke in my answers about the frequency of traffic in one sentence, no more. The sentences I answered the second question, however, were much more than one. But if you wanted to ask me about the traffic frequency, let's talk about it. The Road Administration's position and the facts on traffic frequency indicate that in 2011 the traffic rate on the main roads increased and reached 2009 levels. 28000 motor vehicles were added. The share of heavy duty vehicles in road traffic increased by 18%. Referring to the studies, it is claimed that in a situation where other factors remain unchanged, a 1% increase in traffic frequency will lead to an increase in road accidents resulting in approximately 1% of injuries, with an increase of 1.1% in pedestrian accidents. I understand that you wanted to ask why the number of road accidents has increased in 2011 and in the first three months of 2012. I think that was the point of the question. We have actually discussed this several times in this Chamber. It is not easy to answer with one sentence, but I will try to answer as briefly as possible. As you know, the most serious problem is in 2011, especially at the end of 2011, and in the beginning of this year it has been with light road users. By "light road users," we mean pedestrians and cyclists. As I mentioned, traffic offences were detected where low-risk road users did not comply with security requirements, in 2011 almost a quarter more than in 2010. The lack of security equipment ended tragically at the end of 2011. At the same time, traffic surveillance did not decrease in 2011 compared to 2010. I have pointed out quite a number of facts that show that the identification of traffic offences has actually increased, and that the resources aimed at catching drunk drivers have also increased. Monitoring activities have been increased by as much as 63%. An important nuance is that 2011 was not a good year in all of Europe compared to 2010, not just in Estonia. The number of road deaths increased not only in Estonia, but also in Sweden, for example, with the lowest number of road deaths. There, the number of road deaths increased by almost a fifth in 2011, and this is a very large number for a country like Sweden. To make comparisons internationally, I looked at the statistics published a few weeks ago in the European Union. We are in the same level as in 2011, and in fact in the past, with a highly developed Member State of the European Union such as Belgium. There was the same number of road deaths in 2006 (i think it was 146) as in Estonia and in 2011 we were back on the same level as Belgium. Belgium has also been through both ups and downs, 2010 was quite a good year in Belgium, according to my memory, but 2011 was not as good, more tragic as last year. So there are a number of nuances to road deaths. What I can assure you and tell you is that we are doing everything we can to ensure that traffic surveillance becomes ever more planned, analytical. We will increase the volumes this year and, above all, increase the attention of light road users, potential serious accidents, drunk drivers. Checking security equipment is crucial. I also said it out here several weeks ago, and the police have confirmed this on several occasions that the sanction system needs to be reviewed in this regard. In my opinion, a clear signal should be sent to society that if you have a seat belt unmounted, if you do not use safety equipment, this is a very serious violation and a strict sanction must also be imposed to prevent possible violations in the future. There is therefore a great deal of action, all of which are aimed at reducing road deaths. One of the direct reasons why road deaths have increased is that we cannot point out. There's quite a few of them. Infrastructure, the state of our roads, will certainly play a role here. The weather must play its part. It also plays a role in increasing not only the visibility of the police and the volume of traffic surveillance, but also the visibility of these very light road users. We have planned significant activities this year precisely to improve security equipment, to better equip both cyclists and pedestrians with reflectors. It is positive that in recent years the use of retro-reflectors has increased considerably, but it still does not satisfy us. So there's a lot of traffic activity. I would, of course, like to thank all the Members who are thinking along and giving good ideas. If they're reasonable and purposeful, they'll go ahead. I think it is the fruit of a joint effort that can eventually lead us to this level, which, in a good sense, is being set as an example in the Nordic countries, Finland and Sweden. It was tragic in Sweden in 2011, but in Finland, for example, road deaths are significant, one and a half times less than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U38	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! The question came from listening to your report. How do you feel that the police could not, for example, be able to introduce electric cars, which have been kindly offered to social workers and private individuals, in the case of traffic management and traffic offences, as well as in the case of some of the challenges that are not extremely fast? Their electricity costs are certainly low and, at the same time, they give the police a chance to be more visible. Cities in general cannot and must not drive more than 50km 60km per hour, but there are challenges where speed is not the first factor; it is just important to get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U40	Thank you for your question. That is the correct point, because the possible use of electric cars by the police is also being considered very seriously, and they are likely to take place this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U41	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U42	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You mentioned that the price of fuel is the hardest hit by the police and fire department work. Do you have any statistics on how many challenges a ground constable can serve with the current fuel standard? Do you have an overview of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U43	Thank you for your question. As I said, the principle rule of the police is that all the challenges that the police have made are served by a clear decision. The PSAP accepts the challenge, the police decide whether a quick departure is essential or whether it is possible to deal with a specific challenge, a request for assistance, a comment that has been made in any other way. So the general principle across Estonia is that everything is done to serve the challenges. As I said, the fuel limits that your question is primarily motivated by are recommended, especially with discipline. If an additional fuel limit is needed, resources will be found from the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U44	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U45	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U46	Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U47	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I hope that the economic situation of the Estonian police is not as bad as in Greece, where policemen are allegedly rented out for 30 euros per hour. However, it is certain that the Estonian police also have such challenges that it is clear that this was an empty or not very important challenge. Has there not been a debate on the possibility of applying some kind of own contribution to such journeys? This seems, of course, to be such a heretic idea, but in the emergency department, for example, people who are in need of help are also being taken into consideration. Is it not intended to apply to trivial things where the host, for example, finds that the neighbor's cat has caused trouble in her rose bush and calls on the police to pay their share?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U49	Thank you, Mr Vasilyev. I have to admit, it's really a heretic idea. I understand the core of your question and, above all, the constructive request to avoid imposing an unnecessary burden on the PSAP, I would say even with malicious calls. However, we should ensure that the help numbers for the Estonian people are 110 for the police and 112 for the rescue (in future the common number 112) are open to all people without any possible threat of sanction. That people who feel that they really need help can call these numbers. The PSAP operators are professional and qualified to distinguish, at the earliest possible stage, those calls where rapid, operational intervention is definitely needed, from other calls that may not be as operational as possible, but also go into the process. In the third section, there are already those speeches that you have referred to, which may sometimes even be malicious, may be premature and contain something that you would like or have proposed to apply your own contribution. However, I would like to keep the national emergency numbers free of sanctions. Everyone must have confidence that if he or she is in a situation that threatens his or her safety, he or she can freely choose 112 or 110. He knows he's gonna get help from there, and he's gonna get it as soon as possible. And when it comes to a neighbor's cat or dog, it is precisely these first-reaction cases that could have been solved within the village with the help of relief officers, with the help of voluntary rescuers, who are free to go to help animal-friendly, animal-loving families who may have just acquired an animal for themselves and are not yet so familiar with what is happening in the animal kingdom. A cat in a tree often comes down. It is not necessary to involve a professional rescue brigade, a rescue commando, such situations can be resolved right there in the village, at grassroots level, involving volunteers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U50	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U51	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! If you look at the system of constables within the limits of local governments and a little beyond their borders, how would you assess this as a minister? How sustainable is the current system of constables and what changes are you planning in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U52	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, it is quite clear that police and law enforcement activities in Estonia as a whole require continuous development, modernisation, the introduction of innovative solutions. In my reply today, I gave you an example of the implementation of an electronic field procedure, on which we have spent quite a lot of effort and attention this spring in order to mobilise as many modern instruments as possible, avoid duplication, avoid wasting human labour. If there are currently some 170000 misdemeanours in Estonia, the absolute majority of them in traffic-related matters, we need to think about how to shorten the time taken to deal with these traffic offences and how to use the resources saved in other law enforcement activities more effectively than before. This is one example that tells us that the reflection and processing of constables, the patrol service, as a whole, of law enforcement activities is really extremely important. Our good northern neighbours in Finland will make exactly the same effort, they will move to a very modern innovative system in a few years' time, which concerns the same e-police. Of course, the location of constables, patrol officers, their response to the challenges, may always be even better thought out. That's all the police are doing very intensively. Looking at the figures that the statistics give us, I believe that there is a significant need for more attention to be paid to traffic surveillance, its volume must increase. Violent relations in Estonia are a very serious challenge. By the way, it is not just an Estonian question; it is a problem in many very developed countries, in many major cities of the world. It is important to think about how to achieve the quality of close-relationship violence that a person learns to trust a country, learns to trust professionals who, with their concerns, I talk about the victims of close-relationship violence in particular, and receive protection from the state. So that, if proceedings are initiated, they can reach the 'positive end' as well. So there is room for improvement in a number of areas, and we are really exploring all options. Of course, we will also try to follow the examples provided by our ladies and gentlemen, both in Europe and in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U53	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Deniss Borodichi, Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luigas, Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Kalev Kallo, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Olga Sõtnik, Priit Toobali, Rainer Vakra, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velmani. a Request for information on Greece's second loan programme submitted on 13 March 2007 (No 136). Mr. Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U54	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 March 2012, we really sent an enquiry to Mr Jürgen Ligi, our Minister of Finance. The subject of the inquiry is Greece's second loan programme. We are talking about the fact that the new support programme provides for a comprehensive plan to restore the sustainability of the Greek economy and to ensure financial stability for Greece and, through it, for the euro area as a whole. The main feature of the new programme is the reduction of Greece's debt to 120% by 2020. Greek government debt was estimated at 162% of GDP at the end of 2011. We write that Greece's second loan programme has a total volume of up to EUR 130 billion. The final need will be clear once the level of private participation has been fixed and the capital needs of the Greek banks have been assessed. In addition, the IMF's participation in the total amount of the loan is open. Estonia's contribution to the Greek aid package therefore amounts to EUR 357 million. To this extent, Estonia guarantees the main part of the loans granted to Greece, and in addition Estonia guarantees the interest on these loans. In this regard, we have six questions for the Minister, which we would like to have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U55	Thank you very much, Mr Valeri Korb. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! So I'm gonna start reading the questions again. Question 1: 'How much more difficult will negative economic growth make compliance with the debt reduction requirement for Greece this year, but possibly also in the coming years? " No doubt he will, but it has been taken into account. Even a zero increase in 2013 and a further 2.5% year-on-year increase until 2020 has been taken into account. According to this forecast, Greece's debt ratio has fallen to 117% of GDP by 2020. Let us recall that the lion's share of this was already attributed to the write-off of private debt. I certainly do not have a better forecast for Greece. We are keeping our fingers crossed because, if the economy is going to the bottom, reforms are being carried out extensively, there is reason to hope that there will also be a recovery, as the experience of Estonia or Latvia, for example, which are more open economies, shows. On the other hand, in Greece, the disorderly nature of public finances is again so high that there are reserves that help to cover debt servicing needs. The second question: 'Can't there be a situation where Greece does not really cut its debt burden, but a reduction in debt will be achieved through a consistent write-off of bonds and a higher level of inflation in Europe? " The answer is no. This cannot be the case that Greece is not cutting. He's already cut, he's done it for himself quite effectively, impressively. In order to receive this new package, too, he had to make certain decisions. As far as European inflation is concerned, the dominant stance in Europe is, however, to control inflation. Estonia shares the same view. The central bank is, of course, primarily in charge of controlling inflation with its monetary policy. But it's fixed at the legislative level that he has to control inflation. Now, if you come back to Greece again, it is not the debt exchange or write-off that anyone wants to say, it was not an easy decision, and it is not a decision that is being repeated. In any case, the Greek solution is unique; this is not the case for other countries. Once again, however, Greece will receive each loan payment only conditionally. This will be followed by close supervision, including by other finance ministers, and the way they implement their programme will depend on both economic growth and getting new money. Question 3: 'How is Greece still implementing the Memorandum of Understanding? " It is valued on a quarterly basis, and they are still exerting themselves. The nearest official review is likely to be in May for finance ministers when the next Eurogroup meeting will take place. In the meantime, we also have a telephone conference, if anything extraordinary happens, more often than otherwise. In any case, before approving the second programme, Greece fulfilled the preconditions quite effectively. Where the laws or decisions adopted did not correspond exactly to what the Eurogroup requested, Greece has also corrected its decisions. Question 4: 'Do you not think that every new Greek loan payment and programme will increase decision-making times because Greece is not sufficiently fulfilling its objectives? ' My immediate impression is perhaps deceptive, because I have only been active in the Eurogroup since the beginning of 2011, as an observer since the end of 2010, but I would rather say that this time, when I myself have been more active, has been the time for speeding up decision-making. In the meantime, let's say, in mid-2011, there may have been a situation where we could talk about some sort of stretching, but in recent times decisions have become more effective. True, we do not know what the Greek elections bring, perhaps the biggest issue of risk. However, Greece has no alternative. Whatever the Greek extremists and populists say about the elections, they will ultimately need money and will not be given it if they deviate from what has been agreed. Question 5: 'The President-in-Office of the finance ministers of the euro countries, Jean-Claude Juncker, has said that the third package of aid for Greece cannot be ruled out. Our neighbours, Finns, have confirmed that Finland does not participate in any more aid packages. What is the position of our government? ' It is a completely realistic assessment that the third package of aid cannot be ruled out. Of course you can't rule it out. What one or another particular Finn says should be viewed in the context. Different politicians, political parties and governments will certainly say these things with different strengths, but, after all, Europe still tends to act in solidarity and in agreement. But the third aid package has not been discussed. This is more about the post-programme period and how likely Greece is to return to the private credit market. There are positive and negative examples. Ireland has been successful here, some missions have also been carried out by Portugal, for example, and Latvia has come out of the programme forcefully. The content of these reforms is very similar to that of Estonia, maybe they have just made up for the time lag. Basically, this model works when there is political will. I did not mention Iceland, but Iceland is one of the good examples of countries outside the European Union and the euro zone, of how a robust fiscal consolidation will have a positive impact not only on fiscal capacity but also on economic growth. Question 6: Has there been a position at the meetings of the European finance ministers, which is still supported by Greece, and at what point will Europe be able to reach its full weight? ' We have contributed to a scenario that has been agreed with Greece and which here still speculate. The measure is to complete the Memorandum of Understanding and to complete it. Much more speculation does not make sense, we assume that agreements have been concluded and are being executed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U57	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Please ask a question, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U58	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! On the fourth question of the question of inquiry, you briefly stayed in the Greek elections. What do the financial specialists in the other countries of the Eurogroup think about these elections? And most importantly, do we have a certain negative moment in the state budget strategy for next year in relation to these elections or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U59	Thank you. We do not need to forecast the Greek elections in the budget; we need to predict our contributions to the stability mechanisms, one of which will also be discussed by the Supreme Court in May. But if you ask what the finance ministers think, the truth is, everyone is a Democrat and an election when no one denies such an election, but nothing good really thinks of Greece's extraordinary elections. Everyone would be better pleased if the current technocratic government could be moved forward and political turbulence did not call into question the execution of the program.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U60	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U61	Thank you. Good minister! A sociological study was published today, according to which the Greeks are not very optimistic about the European Union, the euro zone and the aid packages. Has the Estonian state, regardless of the economic and political situation in Greece, made the first transfer or when it will be made and how is it compatible with our constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U62	Thank you. Estonia has not made any transfer. Optimism and pessimism, however, vary between nations. Greece must bear in mind that for quite a long time, there has been an illusory world, and the return to reality certainly creates pessimism. It is clear that reality is worse than illusion for a long time. There's no miracle here. At the same time, the Greeks are predominantly very much and very much in favour of Greece being able to stay in the euro zone. Here are the opinions that, in the end, this must be done. People are also able to do what has been agreed to in order to have the money at all. In the case of extremes, you never know for sure, and the risk is, of course, in the extreme left.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U63	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U64	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You have already pointed out some worrying pre-election attitudes, and one of them is that the Greeks are very much interested in the euro in the area of tourism, but they are not interested in its 'price'. I do not read Greek, but on the basis of what the Greeks themselves have said recently in English, there has been the idea that the euro will remain, some of the loans will be forgiven, and they will have a third chance, i.e. countries will not only forgive the private sector but also some of the loans, and Greece will be able to proceed normally. How do you feel about this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U65	Thank you. I think there are thousands, if not millions, of approaches. Of course, this approach is not appropriate for me. I do not believe that I would be given much time to be in office if I appeared before Parliament with a proposal to forgive Greece financially. I do not believe that other finance ministers are in a different situation. Parliaments will not forgive such a thing, states will not forgive, and all Greeks should know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U66	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U67	Thank you. Minister of Finance! In the latest IMF assessment of the second Greek aid package, Greece is expected to retain its ability to repay the loan, in particular by carrying out large national devaluations and having expectations of a reduction in the minimum wage. At present, the minimum wage is 50% higher than in Portugal and 5 to 6 times higher than in Romania or Bulgaria. Can you tell me what the rate is? How much should the wage be reduced to make the next packages come into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U68	Thank you. I believe that, compared to Portugal, you were very imprecise, rather close to the Greek and Portuguese minimum wages after the reduction in the minimum wage. If I am not mistaken, it is close to EUR 500 in Portugal, and Greece reduced it to 600. The level of Romania and Bulgaria is unknown to me. The IMF is always at the table, so we have to use their analysis, and we'll discuss it if we have to. And the IMF is not the only one, it is still the European Commission, it is the Member States and it is the central bank that coordinates its analyses and supervises Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U69	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. By the beginning of May, parliamentary elections have been announced in Greece. In this regard, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, what will happen when elected MPs are elected to Parliament, whose political and economic direction is different from that of the present. Are we ready for this, or is this memorandum enough that you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U71	Thank you. It is not possible to suggest a European hand to the results of the elections, but it is not possible to call such a programme or a different one economic. It is something populist and political certainly, but it is not economic, because Greece would be doing very badly with the economy. I do not believe that the Member States would forgive and that it would be possible to grant aid to Greece in the event of significant deviations. This would mean a sudden drop in their standard of living, a country's substantive inability to pay off basic needs from the state budget, with all the consequences for consumption and political life, and why not internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U72	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U73	We will go to the next question, which is the hearing of the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Heimar Leng, Kadri Simson, Lauri Laasi, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Olga Sõtnik, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toom, presented on 3 April (No 143). My colleague, Mailis Reps, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U74	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Unfortunately, in Estonia, the difference between women's and men's wages is one of the largest in the countries of the European Union. According to the survey in the "Sex wage gap in Estonia" collection by the Ministry of Social Affairs, wage dispersion is very high in both the private sector and the public sector. Men earned 30% higher wages in the middle than women, while the average gender pay gap in the European Union as a whole was around 15%. Moreover, when we look at the annual report 'Estonia's human rights' last year, there too, human rights experts have highlighted the very large pay gap between men and women doing equivalent work as one of the most painful moments. Unfortunately, in this difficult situation, the pay gap between women and men was also touched by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, saying in the 'Three Iron' on 8 March quite cynically that 'if we take the female teacher, the pay gap, it is not a bad salary'. In view of the current very sad statistics, including the rather sharp comments made by experts on this subject, this sentence from the Minister is quite astonishing. As a result, we have six questions for the Minister, the answers of which we hope to find out whether the Minister of Finance made a joke on 8 March on television, was cynical, or the government shares the Minister of Finance's view that the current situation is normal and does not have to make very great efforts in this respect. However, we would like to know how the Minister believes that the situation could be improved, what concrete steps the Government of the Republic could take to ensure that this pay gap is not so large. And surely we would also like an assessment of the programme referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U75	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. Once again, I would like to ask for the premiere of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! You start with insults, you say that my words were inappropriate and cynical. I call them entirely appropriate. The production of appropriate statistical comparisons is part of professionalism and the cynicism of this selective attack on statistical numbers can be called. It's like I'm ignoring some of the background information just to get somebody to like it. But social processes can't be analyzed like this if you don't use numbers and other background information. As for the show, by the way, I've been told it was a good show. Unlike many colleagues, I have not given up the attacking destructiveness of Mihkel Raud, as his style has given up, but have given up proper answers. I also brought regional comparisons on this subject. None of you have said, not even Marianne Mikko, that it was inappropriate to say that teachers in the middle earn more than the average earner anywhere outside Tallinn. No one has said that it is discriminatory and offensive to the whole of Estonia. No one has even called it discriminatory and insulting when I said that two thirds of earners earn less than teachers. Now, according to some gender trait, there is a ban on one specific statistical comparison that was included in one set with the others. With this comparison, I wanted to say, of course, what any benevolent interpreter would have understood: teachers will not be harmed to make their pay an example of the pay gap. That was my point. Paying salaries to teachers is paid equally to men and women and paid more than most earners. The issue of the gender pay gap I brought to the debate myself simply to show that this issue is important to us. But to the questions. 'How do you assess that men with the same responsibility and workload earn more wages in Estonia than women? Can it be considered reasonable that remuneration is determined by gender and that women should receive a lower salary? ' There shouldn't be such a thing, but statistically, of course, it has proved to be a fact. And it is a fact in all European countries, but there is a gap above average in Estonia. Somewhere there was a statement that women earn a third less, but rather this figure has recently been closer to a quarter of 26.7%, I think it was the figure. Of course, it is a big difference and it cannot be explained unambiguously. The difference that can be objectively explained is 4,4% according to one study, whatever that means. Factors such as sector, position, age, ethnicity, education, the existence of children, etc. have been taken into account here. Every study, of course, is in some sense a detective's face. This is just one position, exactly we do not know the mechanisms for creating a gap, but this gap is a fact. My own subjective opinion is that it is a social stereotype that is recovered by both men and women. It's no secret that men's self-esteem is more important than pay. Men value wages more than women from other factors at work. Nor is it a secret that a family relationship is a good situation where a man has a wallet and that women actually expect a higher salary from their husbands than they get. And if you think it's my fiction, read Saturday's Daily. I only found confirmation there, but like I said, it's a common stereotype. It's not something I approve of when I say it, and what I consider to be a good tendency. It's just a finding, and hypocrisy is unnecessary here, I think. If attitudes are to be changed, the first thing is to put an end to hypocrisy. There are other aspects to this gap. It is no secret that a greater effort on men's wages, no matter how I say that their work is of a higher quality, is rather demanding of the pay figure also when applying for a new post in the labour negotiations. This is also due to the sad fact that we have not only the biggest pay gap, but also the difference in life expectancy between men and women is one of the biggest. This fact, too, is not something that we should hypocritically exclude. It has also been observed that the social vulnerability of men is, in some ways, greater; they may be more vulnerable to finally falling out of society for economic reasons than women. There's no point in hiding your head in the sand in front of such a fact. These are some sort of social mechanisms that are not invented by one sex or by the government. Next question: 'What concrete steps is the government planning to reduce the pay gap between women and men? ' I am not authorized to promise anything on behalf of the government, but you know that the Minister of Social Affairs is preparing an action plan in this regard. However, my area is wage policy and, recognising the pay gap also in the public sector, I cannot say, for example, that it is really worthwhile in the Ministry of Finance. Our leadership happens to be very masculine, but 60% of department leaders are already women and their average salary, given that the responsibilities of ministries are very different, is quite the same. There's a difference of EUR 20 to deny to men, but statistically it tends to be around that percentage, not a quarter or a third. Next question: 'When do you think the pay gap between women and men in Estonia will decrease to the European Union average? ' You never know, because I think it is very much a matter of attitudes. If there's an attack on the Minister after one sentence, I don't think it's gonna help narrow the pay gap. Rather, it ridicules such a serious subject. Let's keep looking at things and admit that this minister on the Mihkel Raud show hasn't created a pay gap. Next: 'Does the statement of the above-mentioned position by the Minister interpret the attitude of all members of the government towards the pay gap between women and men? ' I don't know what you're talking about. Your interpretation certainly does not reflect this attitude. I'm also afraid that if your interpretation of this masculine society were to be discussed by only one woman there, there would be a high risk that there would be some kind of masculine jokes. That you can see the winch being turned over with one theme. Finally, the question is: 'Your above-mentioned comment may have been discriminatory for many Estonian citizens on the basis of gender characteristics. How do you rate it? " In my work, I come from the fact that men are neither stupid nor malicious, and I am mostly not wrong about it. Speaking of discrimination here, frankly, I feel discriminated. I do not believe that such a complaint would have occurred to some female minister who would have introduced the same statistics or would have happened to me if I had talked about men's wages. Stereotypes and processes are the same, the numbers are the same. Am I, as a man, supposed to be unprofessional and ignore the facts? But the fact, as I said, is that I do not believe that women teachers are discriminated against by gender. No one has contradicted that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U77	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now the questions. Please ask the first question, Mr Mikko.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U78	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance! It is obvious that as long as wages and bonuses are surrounded by mysteries, the pay gap and the disputes about its existence, nature and causes will not disappear. Only transparent wages can be compared with wages paid for equivalent qualifications and skills. This allows both women and men to claim a decent and fair wage when they get to work and when they are already working. It would make sense to start with the public sector, and I ask: when will the Minister of Finance, in his ministry, the Ministry of Finance and in his administration, make the salaries of all officials, with the extra charges, transparent or public?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U79	He's not doing this illegally, at least not the Minister of Finance. In my opinion, pay is a question that extends to a very large extent to the private sphere. And I have said that in the new Civil Service Act too, regulation should be made a little more transparent. This law could be accompanied by the disclosure of the pay range and the exact disclosure of the salary from a certain level, either from the average salary or from certain positions. However, in circumstances where there are very material values in society, in my opinion the result is the same pay gap, this is still an invasion of privacy. Also, from the point of view of equal treatment, I have come up with a thought-provoking question about what advantages will remain in the public sector if we there make all the benefits, as we have decided, similar to those of the employment contract. Is it that ironic to say that there's one good thing, and that's that the neighbor can see your exact salary? When we think about what I said here before, and for which I have not yet been attacked, while some people in this Chamber were having fun, I hope that they have now thought about and been serious, when we think about the self-esteem of men and that men's and women's expectations are more likely to be met by men's higher wages, no matter what our assessment of this is, the privacy that we offer is severely affected. Is that what you need? Is it necessary to hang it for EUR 1000 or 700, or for me, for a salary of EUR 500 or less, knowing that a number of people are condescending to it, so what kind of man are you? In the case of women, I don't think it's that serious. Disprove that statement if you can! But I was in a minority in the government, and I'm not ashamed to say it. And I'm not surprised when the Riigikogu does what the government does. Transparency could be realised through posts. If you know what job someone is in, you know how much he earns about it. However, it seems to me that even in the workplace it is not good for people with similar positions to sit in the same room, one of whom clearly has advantages in professionalism, experience, skills, and it has been written to him all along as a very accurate salary number. In my opinion, it could still be a public pay range and a title that would help to assess how much a person earns about it. The public, the taxpayer, could only be interested in how much the state pays for a specific level of positions, including those in management positions, but not how much one simple assistant exactly earns.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U80	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U81	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let me start by saying that no, you will not be discriminated against by questioning because you are a man.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U82	Thank you. It's easier for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U83	But there are few sayings like you promised yourself. I'm sure you won't be allowed to say that to yourself by the government's only female minister, not even with the aim of looking interesting on Mihkel Raud's talk show. Coming to the subject: you said that your area is wage policy. You said that there was nothing wrong with teachers' pay because they were female teachers, and you compared that many earners get less pay than teachers. I would like to know from you what you think a proper salary is for women workers who are subject to certain professional requirements. He must certainly have a higher education and, on the other hand, his work is of national importance. If a teacher does a poor job in educating young people, the whole country will suffer for the next several decades. What would be the appropriate remuneration for a graduate female worker in your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U84	Thank you. You woke up a month after this show. A month after the show! And I know why you woke up. You read an article by Iivi Anna Masso, where she put those exact words in my mouth. But I didn't say the teacher's salary was fine. On the contrary, I said both on the show and in the comments that I have made when this topic was up, that I do not think it is enough. I think it's a little short, and we want to pay more. But, of course, I didn't go public and say that 20% and a little more need to be added. That's not possible. As Minister of Finance, I'm not gonna go public with any Utopian figures. But read today's article by Iivi Anna Masso. I think that this is probably the story of the most radiant female opinion leader in Estonia, I think, now I'm saying something horrible. Its title, I haven't read the article myself yet, is very much to hope for. Think about it! Is your feminist religious attitude really appropriate, or are you able to think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U85	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for an intellectually very interesting debate. But I have another question for you. You have one very strong instrument in your hands to help bridge the pay gap and promote gender equality in general. It's a state budget. In a large number of countries, gender analysis is also used in national budgets to assess how budgets affect women and men and their incomes. How do you think: is it possible and necessary to analyse the budget of our Estonian state through the prism of gender equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U87	I don't know, my first point is that there is something again dangerously discriminatory about whether I can speak at all. Do we have to think here that we're going to do a revenue cell M and a cost cell N or what exactly? Or may I speak of the budget from the point of view of homosexuals and heterosexuals or ethnic minorities? In my opinion, this is not the main issue of the budget. Just today, before I came here, we were discussing the reform of the state budget, the reform of which, so to speak, a completely new shape, the formation-based transformation, the increase in transparency. But any gender distribution I really don't consider to be a priority. The pay policy is quite clear: there must certainly be no different pay scales for men and women. And in social policy, what to deny, women live much longer, their retirement age is still slightly lower. If you look at social costs, look at parental benefits and look at whom many other social costs go, they are like more personalised expenditure in the state budget, then it is rather women who are the main ones there. But, of course, there are also facts in which men have reason to feel guilty. The average pension, for example, is higher for men. However, the basic pension amount still tends to go to women, which is one of the biggest expenses. But we really haven't analyzed it. I think we should not go too far with this madness, that everything in this world needs to be made gender neutral somehow and to ignore all the differences between us. They're so different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U88	Please, my colleague Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U89	Thank you. Indeed, a good minister, the pay gap between men and women in Estonia is not illusionary, but real. And as was said here, the causes of the pay gap are unknown to us. The paradox is perhaps that our school system, our education system, rather feeds these stereotypical gender roles than relieves them. The same teachers, whose salaries we talk about very much, are deepening the gender roles that we should sort of overcome. We are now preparing a new Civil Service Act, where the Ministry of Finance will have a very important role to play in shaping the wage system of public officials. I would just like to emphasise: in shaping the public pay system. What opportunities do you think the Ministry of Finance has to design a wage policy so that this very unpleasant pay gap will continue to narrow rather than settle?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U90	We will certainly reduce the possibility of a pay gap by introducing wage bands corresponding to these agencies. Wages should not be subjective, but must meet the standards of the specifications of a particular position. However, I do not belong to a school that thinks that gender roles must be destroyed even by force, that they are all inherently bad. They still have to be distinguished. Some of them are so deeply caught up in what they are, it's not good to fight them. At least this is not effective. My own sons, myself, also wonderd about the ups and downs and downs in younger classes in the boys' class. I didn't understand the point, honestly, but when I think about myself now, I do sense that at a certain age, the class was all girls, and it was difficult for me at some age, so there were a lot of threes. After that, it went away. Something about all of this has been overreacted. At the same time, there is something serious and considerable about a different wage policy. In any case, this has been the focus of attention for a long time and, in my opinion, the possibilities of discrimination are still decreasing, because these attitudes are not approved. Moreover, there is no legal provision for any deviation in wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U91	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U92	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I am very sorry that, in the current unemployment situation, men are particularly caught by gears, because they do not want to go to work on a small salary. This is often the cause, although wages are currently secret, not public. My question is as follows. Women aren't embarrassed to go to work on a small salary. When they raise children alone, they are forced to work for a minimum wage. And there's a lot of women working on a minimum wage. When it comes to child support, the Social Democrats have wanted to triple it in order to help the children of families whose parents receive a minimum wage and have to cope with this money, with less than 300 euros a month. Why are you putting your hand in front of women's pay rise? I mean the teachers. Why don't you favor it? And second, why aren't you in favour of increasing child support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U93	Thank you. I didn't quite understand. You said a lot of things, but what was the uniting element of such different things? On one side, on the other side and on the right side, child allowance, minimum wage, teacher's salary, my activities. I did not understand very well what the point of this question was. Why don't you try it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U94	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, and then Heljo Pikhof repeats his question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U95	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will continue to ask the religious questions of the feminist, for that is what the minister thinks of the questioning. But I believe that when the Minister looks at the wording of this inquiry, he agrees that we asked for an assessment. In other words, we gave the Minister the opportunity to explain what he said on the show. We ourselves have also made an assessment using the wording on one issue that 'for many Estonian citizens' may have been discriminatory on the basis of the sex mark of the Minister's sentence. Personally, I thought that saying was inappropriate and cynical, and that is why we gave you the opportunity to talk about it here. Question: Does the minister responsible for wage policy see the problem that in areas such as education, social work and culture, where women are the majority, lower wages are paid in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U96	First of all, I object to the argument that you gave me a chance to explain. You started insulting me and stopped insulting me. Whether all ministers are like that, etc. You didn't expect any explanation to suit you at all. In any case, this is a relatively vicious statement, not a dialogue. And as I said, I didn't get any clue from you why this sentence wasn't offensive to two thirds of the earners. Why were these comparisons that I brought not offensive to non - Harjumaa? Why is this comparison particularly offensive, so it gives you the incentive to come and insult me with such assessments? Do I agree? For me, there are areas where my heart hurts even more because of what's happening, yes! I've seen women do a very difficult and very routine job. Those aren't graduate women. But I admit, yes, women work very hard for a very small salary. One of the toughest of these is indeed social work, and the other is the processing industry, for example. With regard to the simpler processing industry, we are definitely already dying out of competitiveness. These industries, which have very low wages, are moving away from Estonia, whether it be the textile industry or the processing of fish. The situation of these people has hurt me the most. As far as people with higher education are concerned, I cannot be so compassionate about them. As I have said, my close relatives are teachers. I understand their concerns very well, and I often have to listen to them, but a person with higher education still has a greater chance of choosing a job. When people take advantage of this opportunity, the labour market works, but if they take the opportunity to simply demand it is a very static situation where the desired results are less realistic. I would like to stress that, now that we talk only about teachers, we do not have a shortage of teachers. We have a problem with the fact that we have very high educational costs, in which the pay share of teachers is low. If we are able to restructure these costs, reform them, agree on changes in society, then the pay requests of teachers will also be more likely to come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U97	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U98	This comparison in this otherwise very nice show was painfully touched and seemed inappropriate for some viewers. It is precisely because a member of our government signaled to society that men are worth more than wages, because their self-esteem and social attitude require it. We certainly do not want to iron these valid views at any time in established and historical times. There is certainly no basis for them in the 21st century. And such a comparison by the Minister of Finance, who is a member of the Government of the Republic and should serve as an example to others, is not as easy a comment as perhaps there would be someone else's opinion. It's just that the Minister is less entitled, at least on a television show. When it comes to whether political correctness has gone too far in Europe, whether there is too much caution, as the Minister has pointed out here today, I would rather live in a Europe where people are careful not to insult people and try to look at things from the other side as well. As far as insulting and human rights are concerned, I believe the Minister also knows that in this case the question is not how the majority or the person in the position of power feels, but how the minority or the person to whom the particular remark is addressed takes it. For example, in the case of black people or a sexual minority or a national minority, their views should be based on whether they would be offensive to a particular target group in this context. As teachers are mostly women, the remark was that their pay is fair, inappropriate. I will stick to this position and I will certainly not be alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U99	Thank you. The Minister also wishes to participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U100	Not only am I sorry, but I am sorry that we cannot develop an honest debate on certain issues. No matter what I say, it will turn against me, my words will be distorted. And Mailis is done with it. I have never said that this is a good salary, though, never said! I've said I don't think there is, I don't think it's a lot, I don't think I should pay any more. But you come again and claim that I have said that this is a good salary. As far as Marianne's report is concerned, she took the story to other paths, that women accept places with lower pay. But that is not the issue of the pay gap, which was the question. I really admit that this is also a reflection of the stereotype that a woman should earn little and a man should not earn little. Of course, neither should earn little. But men take it a lot harder, give up a lot easier, give up. Women are much, let's say, more responsible in this sense. I admit that women are more responsible. Women are more concerned about future generations and their social status in an emergency. They'll survive, they'll take a bad job if there's no other way. A man gets discouraged and falls out of society more easily. You can't deny that. That's it. At the same time, if I look at who's driving around the world and I see the Nordic people most often, they're mostly men. They are the bearers of more professional responsibility. This is an objective distribution of roles in a society that I alone cannot change, for example, in Sweden and Denmark. That's the way it tends to be, and you just have to say it. Of course, I did not say that every person has freedom of choice. I said that people with higher education have more freedom of choice. I also said that we have no shortage of teachers. In terms of numbers, there is no shortage. The fact is that if we really want to raise their wages, we need to restructure the educational costs, which we have at the top of Europe, in favour of wages. And they cannot be restructured if teachers teach empty classes in large school buildings, just as there are many places here in Lasnamäe, Tallinn. They forcefully keep schools open and instill the people that it is some sort of human right to study at this school and in empty spaces. That way, you never get paid. But these are different things that I'm talking about. You're actually complaining to me about things that aren't there. Don't do that. I tried to talk to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U101	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U102	I would like to ask my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U103	Thank you. I'm trying to ask you clearly now. If a mother who raises children on her own receives a minimum wage, I would point out that this is EUR 290 ♪ and an additional EUR 19 per child for each of the two children, how can she get away with it? How is this possible if less than 300 euros is left? A large number of women just earn the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U104	This question began with you, I'm sorry, last time so feminist that I almost became speechless. The first statement was somehow that a woman could go to work, but see, a man doesn't go to work. Let's not set things up like this! Clearly, stereotypes that are rooted in society and in people themselves are not changeable by harsh command. But, in fact, you probably want to talk about child support rather than certain small salaries, which is the problem of specific posts. Sometimes some positions are fading because the sector's competitiveness is losing. At other times, though, man is a poor negotiator. If we go on the road to raising the minimum wage, we will definitely also go on the road to increasing unemployment. A higher minimum wage will not solve the problems you see in society. And the universal child benefit will not solve these problems either. In an attempt to justify universal child support, there has been talk of equal value for all children, but the result is that everyone is truly valued equally and that they are not supported to a greater extent by those children who need it more. In fact, I urge you to consider how to focus social benefits on the low-paid people and, in any case, on single parents, but not, for example, on the children of members of the Riigikogu. The more subsidies we spray, the less hope the low-wagers can take care of themselves. As a reader of the Estonian Express, I noticed that Urve Palo has a solution to how to solve society's problems: the waste must be stopped. In that case, let's start with where the most money is spent, where social benefits are wasteful. However, I would also include child benefit among the social benefits. Some may be starting to redefine it here, but I really think that even distribution of cash is a wasteful thing, because first it is collected from the same people as taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U105	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I listen to questions and I listen to answers, and I fully understand some of what you are answering. And if I don't understand some things, it's probably my problem. But I have this question. How is it, though, that if the salary is small and it is public, the woman is not ashamed, but if the man's name is behind a small salary number, then it is a great shame? In fact, it is probably a shame that we pay a very small salary at all, regardless of whether the recipient is a woman or a man. I've always thought we had to be honest about our poverty. It's what it is. Why, then, in the case of the public sector, are we saying that we are going to disclose the pay gap, then it is less of a shame, but on the pay day, the same people are still taking home this small salary? Maybe we can talk about it the way it is, and if we're ashamed, let's think about how we can overcome this shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U107	Yes, it is one wholehearted thought that, above all, we are ashamed that our level of prosperity is low, that very many of our wages are poor. They are low everywhere compared to someone's wages, but in our own circumstances, too, there are very poor wages in some areas. But I was talking about the sterotypes. I wouldn't break them alone, and maybe I wouldn't even focus on it. After all, these stereotypes are expressed in phrases like, "What kind of man are you? '. Does anyone say, "What kind of woman are you if you don't make it?"! '? You don't usually say that. It's a reflection of the stereotype, and it hasn't gone anywhere in our language. What kind of man's salary is that?! But no one's asking, what kind of woman's salary is that? I think it's more like something that has to disappear in time. I hope that when you process the Civil Service Act, you will argue this matter clearly and decide as you decide. I've said my point of view, I'm not ashamed to have a different opinion than most. I've never been ashamed of it in any of these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U108	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Finance. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague Olga Sõtnik in the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U109	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to appear here, but Mr Minister's answer to my question made me want to come to the speaker's desk. It made me very sad that, in the opinion of the Minister, there is no way in which the national budget can affect equality between men and women, the pay gap between men and women. In fact, it is the state budget that sets out how much money goes into the education system, for example, and what kind of pay will be paid by teachers, both women teachers and men teachers, how much money goes to national defence or internal security, because men and women also work there. After all, the way the state thinks, whose work is more valuable, depends on the salaries of these people. But there's one more thing I'd like to talk about. Our own Ministry of Social Affairs is dealing with this problem. On 2 March this year, they organised a seminar called 'Gender equality in budgeting and local life', and a book entitled 'State budget for women and men' has been published. Need-based budgeting in the public sector'. I very much hope that the Minister for Social Affairs will give a copy to the Minister for Finance, who will be able to use the tricks that this book will certainly contain when drawing up the state budget next time. Just a small quote from the introduction to this information day: 'Because of the different roles and social status of women and men in society, budgetary decisions have different implications for women and men. The application of the gender-sensitive method of budgeting can identify how public expenditure is distributed between men and women and whether it has a reducing or increasing effect on gender inequality. The application of the method is intended to contribute to ensuring that policies, activities and services financed by public funds meet the real needs of men and women and contribute to reducing gender inequalities. ' I recommend that the Minister read this book and use it when the next state budget is drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U110	Thank you very much. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U111	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Finance! You're talking about those professions that keep minimum wages as if they're fading occupations. It's like you don't need them anymore. However, if we take even the kindergarten teacher's allowance, which is set in the city budget, then there is nothing to demand from the kindergarten teacher. It is not possible for him to claim a higher salary, although it is mostly a minimum wage. And this job is very, very important to us. When it comes to universal child support and needs-based support for children, the Government Coalition Agreement provides that child support must be seen as needs-based. However, unfortunately, no good socialist proposals that reduce poverty in families with children have yet to be taken into account. At the same time, the high level of parental benefit cannot be considered to be needs-based. Now, on the argument that men don't go on low pay. It's like I'm talking my fictional story here. But research shows that men don't usually go to work on low wages. They're trying to get a better job, and if they can't, they're more unemployed. Now that they're asking you what kind of man you are when you get paid so little. Maybe that's what men ask each other, but I don't know if a woman would ask a man what kind of man you are when you get so little pay. You might rather ask what kind of man you are if you don't pay your children a living allowance or what kind of woman you are if you don't fulfill your child's maintenance obligation. Those would be the right questions! Today, many women are paid minimum wages, and many of them have to raise one, two or more children on their own. They are paid universal child benefit of EUR 19 per child and it is clear that these people live in deep poverty. The Estonian state has a lot to do here. If the child benefit is tripled, families where the mother receiving the minimum wage raises children alone should not apply for income support. At least that way, people would have some dignity. There is some level of poverty that nobody wants to live below. But in general, women go to work on the minimum wage, even because children have to be raised. There's nothing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U112	Thank you. Now, please, colleague Marianne Mikko of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Finance! Gender equality monitoring in recent years confirms that although both Estonian women and men are heavily engaged in work, the labour market has so far been separated by the hierarchy of sectors and posts. Estonian men are located on the ladder, while women are left with the honorable lower level of the ladder. There are only a little over a third of women among leaders and senior officials. The Estonian labour market has been sorted both horizontally and vertically. Women are primarily engaged in "soft" activities, as the Minister rightly said, such as health care, education, science, culture and social work. At the same time, man-made areas are construction, transport, logistics, etc. According to the classification of economic activities in Estonia, the share of women in health care and social welfare is higher than 91.3% and the lowest in construction is 9%. Women also have an advantage in professional, scientific and technical activities. In contrast to the lower position of women in the social hierarchy, the educational level of Estonian women is higher than that of men. In 2009, i.e. three years ago, 70% of women and 30% of men in higher education, but this gap is increasing. Last year these figures were already three quarters and only a quarter respectively. There are more men than women among people with primary and primary education, 37% and 25% respectively. Half of women have either secondary education or higher education. It's 43% of men. Men, however, are more successful in the public sphere than women with the same education. There are eight times as many men as there are among the top leaders. Of men with higher education, 40% are employed as managers or chief specialists; of women, pay attention! - 18%. Educated women work in Estonian medical, cultural and educational institutions, who do underpaid work due to their competence. It's not a secret, it's been written a lot in the media lately. Now: The town of Viljandi has a large number of single mothers living in low or even poor conditions. The possibility for a single mother to provide a child with a higher education is extremely limited. A lower pay for women means that poverty will be compounded in the future, because old-age pensions depend on pay. Therefore, women return to the streets because of the pay gap. This will take place on 19 April, when the Estonian woman earns the same salary as last year, which the Estonian man earned on 31 December. We're gonna end up turning to the government for a Thursday pict. Last year we tried to give our address directly to the Prime Minister, but he did not want to see us. This time too, we would like to talk to the Prime Minister. Let's see if it's important for him to narrow the pay gap or not. If so, he will meet with representatives of women's organisations, if not, then you will draw your own conclusions. But hope dies last. Greetings to the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U114	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mailis Reps, would also like to speak again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U115	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Marianne Mikko, has already pointed out significant figures, which we have talked about here several times before. Statistical indicators are certainly worrying. In view of the fact that many areas depend very directly on our national budget, it must be noted that much more can be done than we do in the design of the state budget. Whether in the field of culture, social affairs, especially social welfare, or education. If you go to today's discussion, the minister said that every person can choose their own job today. I very much hope that we do not share this attitude here at the level of the Riigikogu. If we look at teachers, social workers, people dedicated to the work of social welfare institutions, it should be our desire to do everything in order that these people do not choose another profession. I hope that this is what the members of the government want. Your own and all of our acquaintances, children, parents and all the other old people need very dedicated people in everyday life, and to tell your best people now that you have a free choice of another specialty, is certainly not what we expect of the government during the budgetary procedure. Now for self-esteem. Indeed, it is very difficult to find a school's male teacher. It is even more difficult to find a man as a kindergarten teacher, while quite a number of Western European countries have set an example for us in this regard. Their very strong goal is that boys are taught by men, including men in kindergartens. And so much so because in our very fast society, fathers tend to deal less with children at home. In order not to continue this endless circle of dead ones, which may give rise to somewhat strange values, quite a number of countries, including, for example, Sweden, have launched special programmes to shape proper attitudes to life in boys with the help of men. Fathers often can't do that. That's what our question is about. After all, in very different circles, including very much at the invitation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, at the invitation of several political groups, the members of the Riigikogu, organisations, non-profit associations and journalists, even at the initiative of Mrs Masso quoted here today, have raised these issues precisely in order to discuss what its concrete outputs are. What are these outputs and how we could change attitudes and tendencies in society, so that in ten years' time we do not continue in the same spirit that women who receive less pay are to blame for this and could make other choices. We could probably do much more at national level. Maybe we should start by admitting the problem. I was very sad today to hear the answers from the Minister of Finance. And why? Because I had the impression that even though the discussion lasted quite several minutes, the Minister of Finance did not actually understand until the end why some people, including members of the Riigikogu, considered his remark inappropriate. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U116	Let's go to the last question that the members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Aivar Riisalu, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korb and Viktor Vassilyev submitted on 4 April with regard to the withdrawal of euro coins (No 144). My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U117	Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our question concerns the rumor that the European Union is discussing the abandonment of certain euro coins. A few weeks ago, there was also a separate section in Estonian Television economic news about this. The 1 and 2 euro cent waivers planned in the European Union have already gathered a number of arguments in favour. For example, there are certain costs involved in coining small euro coins, and these costs have already been optimised by a few euro area countries themselves. In the Netherlands and Finland, Euros 1 and 2 are not used as cash, but are taken into account for transfers. The second argument has been that it is difficult and uncomfortable to settle with euro coins. It must be said here that, in fact, the wallet is not made difficult by Euros 1 and Euros 2 cents, but rather by the fact that the smallest paper money is EUR 5, which, in the old Estonian money, is approximately EEK 78. This means that most of the daily settlement is metal-based. But the inquisitors want to focus on the other side of this plan, what happens if the 1 and 2 cents disappear. Since Estonia joined the euro area, we have had very high inflation, even the highest inflation in the euro area. Estonian inflation was 5.1% this March. This was higher than the euro area average of 2.7%. After Estonia, Greece was the second largest in the euro area with a inflation rate of 4.3% and Luxembourg in the third place with a inflation rate of 4%. The loss of the smallest coins from circulation is dangerous for countries with lower incomes, like Estonia, where the disappearance of 1 and 2 euro cents would further boost inflation, as the disappearance of small coins would probably mean rounding up prices. This has been demonstrated even though Estonia had a major campaign a year ago that euro prices would not increase, life has increased considerably since the currency change. That is why we are asking the Minister the following question. Has Estonia already formed its position on the disappearance of these coins? What's the position? In total, there are four questions that I am not going to read separately, because it will be easier for the Minister to answer if he can read these questions himself before giving the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U118	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Now please, dear Minister of Finance, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, it should be made clear that I do not think that I am Estonia. I fill a specific position in Estonia and, in fact, the central bank deals more directly with cash and inflation. However, I will try to comment on this subject to you. Why did I start like this? I stress that I cannot be responsible for everything because I am not the decision-maker in everything. Maybe some knowledge of me will prove untrue in the future. But now this first question about what Ivari Padar has said and how are the plans for these 1 and 2 euro cents? Eesti Pank confirms that the withdrawal of 1 and 2 euro cents has not been discussed in the euro area. The Estonian Government has not discussed this either. Ivar Padar knows what he knows. I have not heard his comment on this subject, if you heard it, please specify. However, in some countries, rules have been laid down under which cash payments are to be rounded up to the nearest 5 cents. This does not mean that 1 and 2 cents are not in circulation. You can pay with them. The second question also to Estonia: 'When the euro came into circulation in Estonia, it was said that the price of the euro would not be increased. How would you assess the impact of the abolition of small euro cents on the price increase in Estonia? Is that a baseless fear? ' I'd like to start with that first argument. Who said, though, that the price of the euro will not be increased? I'm very sorry, but this little phrase is being abused. I think it is a shared responsibility of all of us to explain where this phrase comes from. 'The euro does not raise the price' was a voluntary campaign by merchants. It was a slogan which meant not that the euro did not raise prices at all, but that they did not increase prices because of the euro. We could all have an obligation to explain it to people. There have been very many speeches on this subject, as if the government had confirmed that the euro had no price-enhancing effect. I myself have always said what I can say afterwards: rounding has the effect of the euro on the price increase in percentage tenths. It's happened. I've been talking about 0.1 to 0.3%, and the only official estimate that has been made is that the Statistical Office has given it, it turned out to be 0.2%. I said my assessment earlier, based on the experience of other countries, and I did not have to withdraw from that assessment. However, the euro will certainly have some effect by accelerating economic growth. As confidence increases in the economy, investment will also increase, and Estonia's economic growth last year also played a part in the acceleration of inflation. But in general Estonia is the main source of inflation in the foreign market. Fuels and food prices have increased over the last two years, and these have been key factors in the price increase in Estonia. So as far as the euro changeover is concerned, the impact of rounding on prices is in any case marginal in comparison with other factors such as the increase in fuel and food prices on the world market. Therefore, this assessment is not unfounded, but it is in vain. This change is so insignificant compared to other factors that we should not devote time to it. For my part, when we went to the euro, we knowingly made this decision that we would leave small coins in circulation, so that no one could give rise to this factor either as a pretext or as a reason for the rise in prices. Question 3: 'Several euro area countries have abandoned the use of small euro cents (e.g. Finland). How has the abolition of small coins affected price increases in these countries? ' These countries, as far as I know, are Finland and Holland, but they have also established rounding rules. In Finland, it has been put in place by law, while in the Netherlands, it has concluded agreements between stakeholders. These categories are merchants, credit institutions, consumer associations. Just like that 'no increase in the price of the euro' was an agreement, not a government promise that nothing will happen under the influence of the euro. The final amount of cash payments simply uses the so-called 'Swedish rounding', I would stress: it is cash payments. Prices ending at 1, 2, 6 or 7 shall be rounded down and those ending at 3, 4, 8 or 9 shall be rounded up in the case of cash payments. This method has been used successfully by a number of countries, allowing the impact of inflation to be minimised, even though it has already a modest impact. It should be borne in mind that rounding is not applied to the price of each product separately, but to the final amount: if you buy a basket, the final amount is rounded. This is not a rounding-up of prices but cash payments, so the sales price of the products may still be at the end of 4 or 9 which, in the case of cash payments, will be rounded to 5 cents. In Finland, the Consumer Protection Agency has defined that EUR 1 and 2 cents are legal means of payment and that merchants may refuse them if a notice is made in the visible place. This is also the case in the Netherlands. In this case, rounded to the nearest 5 cent. Finland introduced rounding rules at the time of the changeover and also at the time of the previous currency, while rounding was used at the time of the mark. In Finland, the assessment of how the abolition of small cents has affected inflation is made difficult by the fact that the timing for the introduction of the euro and, as has been said, by the rounding of the euro before. Although the impact of the introduction of the euro was slightly higher in the second round, according to the European Commission, than in the first round, it cannot be firmly linked to the wider use of small euro cents. While in 2002 the inflationary impact of the introduction of the euro in the various countries was estimated to be between 0.01⁄2% and 0.3%, in Finland it was estimated to be 0.27%. Experience in other countries shows that the withdrawal of low purchasing power coins from circulation does not raise inflation much. Hungary stopped using 1- and 2-forint coins on 1 March 2008 and used rounding rules. It estimated that if all prices were rounded up, the inflation effect would reach a maximum of 0.3%, but if Finland were to be rounded up, the impact would be less than 0.1%. These figures confirm that cents have a very modest impact on inflation, in fact on the price of a larger basket of foods, especially when compared to the prices of oil or cereals on the world market. According to Dutch experience, rounding did not lead to an increase in the price level as rounding down and up took place to an equal extent. Fourth: According to the TNS Emor survey last year, 59% of people prefer to pay by card for daily purchases. Is the abolition of smaller euro cents rounded down to both bank cards and cash payers, or, for example, the price for the card payer remains 4.97, but for the cash payer it will be rounded up to EUR 5? ' As I said, the previous answers would not have allowed you to ask here in this way. Firstly, there is no such plan in Estonia. I don't know about that. But there's always been a question of what to do with these 1 and 2 cents, how important they are. Secondly, in those countries where these decisions have been taken, they are still rounding up cash payments. I think it is unlikely that Estonia will go along with such comforts. However, the main mechanism could be the abolition of cash at all and the switch to electronic payments. This would be of great help in crowding out the shadow economy, and this rounding-and-centeering concern would also disappear. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U120	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U121	To speak in a free microphone round please register after my hammer strike! Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The constitutional nature of the calculation of the period of unemployment insurance has been extensively addressed in the last week, and already on Wednesday the House will have to present its position on the corresponding proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. So there is a question of whether the calculation of unemployment insurance periods is in conflict with the Constitution or not. The current law probably treats people who pay unemployment insurance differently, depending on whether the employer has paid the salary and, with it, the unemployment insurance contributions throughout the calendar months or not in a few months. This leads, in limited cases, to a situation in which a person loses his or her unemployment benefit completely or receives it for a shorter period of time. The unequal treatment takes place in order to ensure the effective functioning of the unemployment insurance system and the easy control of the data on which the benefit is based. These targets, in turn, serve the purpose of using the money of the unemployment fund in a sustainable way, as they help to prevent irregularities and fraud in the payment of unemployment insurance benefits. When considering whether the achievement of these objectives is more important than the damage caused by unequal treatment, it must be taken into account that the unemployment benefit at the rate and for the period it is currently in force would exceed the rate that the state should ensure for the unemployed person under § 28 of the Constitution. As regards the provision of § 28 of the Constitution and the minimum allowance in the event of a shortage of unemployment, this allowance is guaranteed by various measures and their interaction. In particular, it is unemployment and income support, health insurance, etc. On the one hand, unemployment benefit could therefore be a benefit guaranteed by the State on a voluntary basis through a public financial obligation. A person receives the minimum prescribed for him or her in the event of a lack of compliance with the Constitution. In the case of such advantages, the legislator generally has a wider discretion as to whether a person is treated differently or not, on the basis of a reasonable consideration in principle. However, unemployment insurance benefits do not constitute general social benefits financed by the State's tax revenue, which simply exceed the minimum required by the Constitution to their extent or duration. In the case of unemployment insurance, the element of compulsory insurance has a decisive meaning: it is the compensation payable when the risk of compulsory insurance materialises. The state has made it compulsory to have a certain insurance relationship where the person, together with the employer, pays insurance premiums from his or her salary. Thus, a person has a legitimate expectation that if a risk materialises, i.e. if he or she becomes unemployed, he or she will also receive compensation if he or she has paid his or her payments. The state must not have much discretion here to consider whether, for reasonable reasons, some of the people who have paid the payments might be deprived of compensation. The exclusion of persons who have lawfully paid contributions from the beneficiaries is, as if, the expropriation of their assets without a fair compensation. The objectives set here should not be weighed up. Firstly, facilitating administration, when compared with the damage caused, cannot be a sufficiently important objective. Secondly, the same objective, i.e. the prevention of fraud and irregularities, can also be achieved by other means. An example is the mixed cash-based and accrual-based accounting system in well-defined cases. They may not be as effective and may cause inconvenience, but they do not mean a return to an accrual-based system, nor do they enormously increase the administrative burden on non-administrative persons or the administrative burden on themselves. However, they shall ensure that the person is entitled to the benefit for which he has paid the insurance premiums. Consequently, both I and the entire Committee on Constitutional Affairs hope that the Riigikogu will agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the current calculation of unemployment insurance is unconstitutional and will change the law on unemployment insurance accordingly. After all, the protection of fundamental rights is a hallmark of a strong rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U123	Thank you very much, Mr Borodich. I would now like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U124	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have some very sad news to tell you. As with the latest bad news, it has to do with the Ministry of Education and Research. Colleagues, I'm sure you've heard that every year the international mathematical chaos Olympics, where the best child mathematicians from all over the world come together. 500 to 600 wise young people, accompanied by 200 to 300 teachers, great! The Estonian team took part in this event for the first time in 1993 and then reached 56th place out of 72. After that, the number of participants started to increase and the place of the Estonian team started to rise. For more than ten years, Estonia was the fourth or fifth tenth. The highlight arrived in 2001, when the Estonian team reached 37th place. Unfortunately, the situation has changed in recent years, with the Estonian team remaining 73th among 97 participants. We could analyze our level from the next angle. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, 15 independent countries formed where mathematics was originally taught according to the same system. When we joined that math champ club, the first time we were defeated by nine countries, the three of us were defeated. The best result was again in 2001, when only five of us were ahead of us, and we cannot joke over them, because they included Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus. But in recent years, the situation has already been that in 2010 the Estonian Olympiad received 63rd place and all 14 independent countries formed after the collapse of the Soviet Union were ahead of us, including Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan. It shows a general tendency. But actually, I'd like to talk about something else. See, this table is taken from the website of the University of Tartu. On Saturday and Sunday, the final round of the mathematical sympathy took place there, and I will tell you what took place at the tenth class test of power. I would remind you that these are students who will be required to take a mathematics examination in two years' time throughout Estonia, and they will have to receive at least 50% of the possible points, because otherwise the examination will not be considered to have been carried out. That means they can't get the final test. So, 24 students took part. The level was very high because there were seven students from the Tallinn Real School and ten from the Hugo Treffner Gymnasium. Any contestant could get 35 points. On average, 7.4 points out of 35, which is 21%. I congratulate Kohtla-Järve Järve Russian Gymnasium, whose boy Valeri Randalainen reached first place. I wish congratulations to Narva Pähklimäe Gymnasium and Maxim Lavrov, who got third place. But the first place was obtained by 16 points, or less than half of the possible! This means that our tenth grade mathematics is completely... You know where I'm not gonna say that word. This means that two years from now, these tenth classes, if the situation does not change drastically and very quickly, will cause disaster in our education system. This is a madhouse, what's going on! You can't imagine that! There has never been such a thing in the mathematical chasmps that the winner has received half of the possible points. Typically, the result is 31 to 35 points. I have to say directly to the Ministry: this is the result of your reforms, the result of crazy and killing reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-16_U125	Thank you. There's no more calls. That means the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.51 p.m.
