ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U1	Honourable fellows! We will begin the first Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce to you the draft that I will hand over on behalf of the Centre Party Group. This is a draft law amending the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, with which we wish to clarify § 21. Paragraph 3 of this section is the subject of heated disputes over the past four to five years. To date, it is clear that this paragraph is very vague in its wording and that there have been a number of problems. We therefore believe that it is essential to amend this section. In cooperation with specialists and lecturers at Tallinn University, we have developed a proposal that in municipal upper secondary school or in its individual classes, where the language of instruction is another language, the school must ensure, together with the state, that teachers have a very good knowledge of the subject and knowledge of the Estonian language at least at C1 level. In addition to the knowledge of the subject, the teaching of Estonian literature, social studies, music, Estonian history and human geography or entrepreneurship in Estonian will be ensured in support and practice of Estonian language. This list of subjects is necessary in order for the state to be able to support the preparation of methodological preparation, premiums and educational materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U3	Good fellows! I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide on its further proceedings. I'm going to go to the messages now. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The members of the Riigikogu formed an Estonian-Slovenia parliamentary group yesterday. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. There is one clarification on today's agenda. During the debate on the first item, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Urmas Klaas, President of the Committee on Culture. During the second item on the agenda, the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, will also make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U4	Good fellows! We are going to the agenda items for today. The first item is the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 16 on adequate access to education in Estonian. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Is upper secondary school education available in Estonian enough for everyone and who should be good for accessing it? I ask you this question because of some of the attempts made by Estonian local governments to provide upper secondary school education in Russian, although § 37 (1) of the Constitution provides for everyone's right to education and paragraph 4 says that everyone has the right to be taught in Estonian. According to § 14 of the Constitution, ensuring fundamental rights is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. No fundamental right must remain in the air; fundamental rights must be real. As we all know, the transition to the Estonian language of instruction in Russian schools has been legalised since 1993 when the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was passed. Still so that everyone can receive instruction in Estonian. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, adopted in 2010, follows the same approach and provides that the language of instruction in municipal upper secondary school is, as a general rule, the Estonian language and, exceptionally, may be taught in other languages. That is only if the government of the Republic has permission to do so. It is known that the Government of the Republic has not always granted such permission. In spite of the government's ban, however, there are local authorities who try to provide education in other languages with public money, making their form of activity from public to private and establishing a private school. The foundation of a private school is based on the conviction that acting in a private form does not link the obligation of local authority to ensure the availability of upper secondary school education in Estonian. Such a belief has been founded by the Private School Act, which allows private schools to be established by public authorities through private persons, and § 15 (1) of which provides that the language of instruction in private schools is to be determined in the statutes of the school. I therefore analysed this provision in the constitutional review procedure. I found that education in a private upper secondary school governed by public authority instead of teaching in Estonian in another language is not constitutional if it has not previously been verified whether the right of everyone to receive education in Estonian in a foreign language is guaranteed. Let me explain my position a little bit. The aim of education is, as we know, to ensure that the benefits of a person are achieved by personal development, the opportunity to participate effectively in society and other important things in society, and, on the other hand, the benefits of society: social development and cohesion, the functioning of democracy, cultural diversity, tolerance, growth in wealth. As the education provided must be of benefit to both man and society as a whole, the right to education would be meaningless if education was not provided in the state language provided for in § 6 of the Constitution, i.e. in the language of organisation of social life. In order to ensure that the right to education is not merely a word and that education benefits both the person and the society who educates the person with their own expense and letters, the state is justified by § 37 of the Constitution and is obliged to provide everyone with the extent of teaching in Estonian, which gives the person a tool in the form of a language in order to organise his own life and the life of the society. In accordance with § 14 of the Constitution, this obligation must be fulfilled equally by both legislative and executive powers, as well as by local authorities. In doing so, the legislator is obliged to create a legal framework that ensures that everyone can learn the Estonian language. However, in establishing § 15 (1) of the Private Schools Act, the legislator has not acted in accordance with these constitutional provisions. The Private School Act allows the local government to decide the language of instruction itself when choosing the form of activity. In this way, the state does not control that everyone's right to receive instruction in Estonian is guaranteed. In the absence of control, there may be a situation where at some point the Estonian upper secondary school education is not available to everyone, so there is a violation of the Constitution. In order not to do so, I ask the Riigikogu to bring § 15 (1) of the Private Schools Act into line with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U6	Thank you very much, Chancellor. You have questions too. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U7	Your Honor, Chancellor! Speaking of the legislator's will, what do you think the legislator's will is in the case of § 21 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act? Is that just what you say in your proposal? I quote: 'The aim of submitting the choice of language at upper secondary school to the permit procedure is to ensure that everyone actually has the opportunity to receive instruction in Estonian. " Is this the only legislator's will for this paragraph? In this context, your proposal gives the impression that the government refused to grant an exception to some schools in Narva and Tallinn because, in this case, everyone's right to study in Estonian would not be guaranteed. On what basis do you base your position and are you in possession of any government analysis that shows that making an exception would have limited the availability of Estonian-language learning in Tallinn and Narva?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U8	Thank you for your question. The Chancellor of Justice acts on the basis of the Constitution and the legislator acts on the basis of the Constitution. Paragraph 37 states very clearly that the provision of education is supervised by the State. What does that mean? This means that education issues are matters of state life. Consequently, the state decides through its executive body, through the government whether or not education in Estonian is available. This is the competence of the government and it cannot slip into the hands of the local government, either directly or under the current § 15 (1) of the Private Schools Act. It's important! This is a matter of two powers. Secondly, access to education is also of constitutional value. The right to education in Estonian, as I said, is not just right; it is also the duty of the state to ensure it. This will be ensured at national level through government decisions. The specific answer is that it is a direct consequence of § 37 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U9	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U10	Mr. Chancellor of Justice! In my view, the principle that public authority must, in any case, pursue public objectives, irrespective of the legal form in which it operates, is at the heart of the whole issue. Thus, even if public authorities create a private structure, this structure must in any case also pursue only public objectives. Is this principle clearly and unambiguously written in any Estonian law, or should it be viewed as self-evident? Perhaps it would be necessary to make it a very clear principle somewhere, so that this case does not become a precedent and there is no hope that, once it is done, in some other case, private objectives will be pursued in the use of public authorities in another form.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U11	Yes, whatever form of public authority, i.e. the state or local authority, is operating, it must not abandon its main objectives. That's one. Secondly, in this case, the aim is to ensure the availability of education in the Estonian language in § 37 of the directly fixed Constitution, in very clear words. There is no need to derive this, it is clearly stated in the Constitution that the state organises education, as well as that the local government cannot refrain from guaranteeing a fundamental right in accordance with § 14. Thus, in a particular case, the principle is very clearly enshrined in the Constitution, which is mandatory for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U12	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U13	Mr Chancellor of Justice! If, in practice, the basic school does not guarantee the proficiency of the Estonian language at a level that would allow special subjects in upper secondary school to be acquired at a high-quality level and in the volume specified in the curriculum in Estonian, and the government does not allow the exception allowed by the legislator, how can everyone's constitutional right to education, including upper secondary school education, be guaranteed, which is the responsibility of the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U14	It must be borne in mind that the purpose of my proposal is that § 15 (1) of the Private Schools Act should not circumvent the provisions of § 37 of the Constitution. That's all that matters. However, in the case of primary school, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and in particular § 21 thereof, has given the municipality the power to determine the language of instruction. So, in principle, this mandate exists and it falls outside my proposal. I haven't checked the subject, and I'm sticking to my proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U15	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U16	I now follow Mr Allik's words. I had the same question, but I did not receive an answer from Mr Alli. I understand if you rely on the first sentence of § 37 (4) of the Constitution guaranteeing everyone the right to receive education in Estonian. We know that compulsory education is nine classes in our country. We also know that we have a very large share of Russian-speaking primary schools. Do you think that by keeping these basic Russian schools, we are ignoring the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U17	As I said on the previous question, this issue goes beyond the framework of my specific proposal. However, to some extent I have already answered that question, but I repeat now. § 21 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides that the language of instruction in basic school is to be decided by the municipality or city council. Thus, in principle, the State has granted this power of attorney to the municipality. With the question we are discussing today, we cannot compare it directly, technically. Whether this rule is constitutional or not, I have not analysed. If the author of the question considers that there is a contradiction with the Constitution, this is the subject of the future debate. But I haven't analyzed that yet. Formally, this provision of law exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U18	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U19	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I'd like to ask you the same thing again. When we read § 37 of the Constitution, it is clear that everyone has the right to be taught in Estonian. I'll make a comparison to the fact that I'm entitled to ask you right now, but that's not my responsibility, is it? But I ask you, is right equal to duty if the school wishes otherwise? How does justice suddenly become an obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U20	Very good philosophical question! These rights, enshrined in Chapter II of the Constitution, are fundamental rights. Fundamental rights are not merely a declaratory right that I am entitled to something. Paragraph 14 of the Constitution expressly states that fundamental rights must be guaranteed. And this is guaranteed by all public authorities' institutions, both the state and the local government. This means that the law adds to the public authority's obligation to ensure it. What we are talking about now is that public authority is not fulfilling its obligation. The right must not be declaratory; it must be real when it is enshrined in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U21	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U22	Honourable waitress! I think that the Riigikogu should really unthink this section and better align the Private School Act with the Constitution. But if you don't mind, I'm going to expand the subject a little bit, and I'm going to deal with school arrangements more generally. The subject of private schools is strongly linked to the subject of the language of instruction, as municipal schools are being prepared for private schools so that public education policy can be circumvented. My question is as follows. We've been analyzing Keila's school case together. Couldn't there be any way to slow down municipal private schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U23	I've analyzed it pretty thoroughly. As my proposal shows, I finally concluded that I do not, in principle, exclude the possibility of a local government setting up such a private school. It would be very difficult to say that a local authority could not set up private schools, which would probably lead to a number of disputes. There would probably be a question of a very strong interference with the autonomy of the local government, and I doubt that the local government could be prevented from doing so. That would be quite questionable. In the case of Keila's school, problems arose a little different. There was a question of doubting that perhaps using this form would attempt to impose tuition fees. As far as I know, this has not been established.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U24	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U25	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I want to ask you about the next problem. When we discussed the changes of the PGS in the previous Riigikogu and the problems of the Russian gymnasium in this connection, the question arose as to whether there was sufficient resources of teachers in Estonian in Ida-Viru County, and the answer was that there was no. It is still a problem that Russian-speaking students do not receive high-quality Estonian language learning. What can be done because the quality of their children's general education falls? Years can be argued, suggestions can be made, but each year high school graduates feel that the quality of their education is not what was, for example, five years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U26	Indeed, the transition to Estonian was decided in 1993. In my opinion, the root of the problem is also that one amendment, in essence, compliance with the Constitution, has been postponed all the time. At the same time, reasonable steps could have been created to gradually resolve this task. But the problem has been up so long that I think it has to be solved eventually. And to that end, there is our public authority, both the state and the local government, who must find a solution to how to solve this real issue in essence, so that the Constitution is also fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U27	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U28	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The issue of learning in Estonian is not the only problem the city of Tallinn has tried to solve in a different way than the Government of the Republic. There is now one provision of private school law that you propose to amend. I am very grateful for your proposal. This section needs to be amended. But the so-called Tallinn Ombudsman is in office in Tallinn. Have you met this officer and discussed this matter with him? Hasn't he been able to call the government to order it to carry out its public duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U29	This question goes completely beyond the proposal under discussion, but I am also trying to answer it. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice is a completely open institution. Anyone who wants to come to the reception can come. I have also met the Ombudsman of Tallinn and discussed various topics with him. Basically, good administrative practice has been the subject of discussion. I do not see the problem of the local authority setting up the Ombudsman's office. This is very common elsewhere in Europe. Of course, it is always a question of rational use of public resources, but if local authority finds it necessary, then I think local authority has the right to do so. This is a matter of autonomy for local authorities. However, I have not discussed this issue with the Tallinn Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U30	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U31	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I understand that your proposal concerns private schools, which are founded by the local government. If a private school is a purely private institution, it can decide for itself which language it teaches. Do you think your proposal will fully solve the problem you have put forward or not? If, for example, a local government establishes a private company or an NGO which, in turn, establishes a private school or allocates support to a private school that is founded on purely private capital, is the language issue resolved or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U32	My proposal, indeed, concerns only private schooling by the state or local government. How long this chain is, it does not play a role in this case. If the holder of a private school is a private person, it is a different legal regime, but these schools must also comply with the private school law, which § 15 (2) concerns the language issue. But they have greater freedom, and I consider it very reasonable. The right to establish and maintain a private school comes from the Constitution and gives our school organisation the necessary flexibility. But my specific proposal, yes, only concerns the operation of public authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U33	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U34	Mr Chancellor of Justice! I remember those sessions and discussions about the adoption of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in 2010. Then no word was spoken about private secondary schools, and it has not been done in the next two years. My question is: why did the Chancellor of Justice just suddenly come to the Riigikogu with his proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U35	Each proposal requires a prior legal analysis. This isn't a hip shot. I still need to analyse the Constitution's thoughts and provisions properly, I cannot make any proposals without analytical work. I cannot be an executive who is actively involved in the legislative process and points to problems. Institutionally, the Chancellor of Justice is still an ex post provider and reviewer. In some exceptional cases, the Chancellor of Justice really intervenes before, but then they start talking about various aspects: whether there will be a resource, whether because the Chancellor of Justice has said something, there will not be a situation that has been issued some kind of suspension and that no further follow-up can be carried out. So the Chancellor of Justice is a follow-up officer who has to do analytical research.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U36	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U37	Your Honor, Chancellor! First of all, if I may, I will make a small remark before I ask the question. You opened up the job and said that when it comes to private school, he can work in other languages, not in Estonian. However, I dare say that this is not the case, because a private school must apply for a training permit. When deciding on a training permit, 60% of the curriculum is checked for completion in the national language, which is likely to mean that the Ministry of Education will not simply grant a training permit to a private school if it is working in another language. It would be really nice if you could take it a little bit more specific. But here's my question. Everyone has the right to a good, high-quality upper secondary school education, but at present not all schools are prepared to do so. As Chancellor of Justice, what can you tell parents who are concerned about the quality of their children's education?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U38	First of all, this clarification. I said that the private school law guarantees a certain degree of flexibility, but of course it cannot differ from the general Estonian legal order. I also referred to the second paragraph of § 15, which determines this framework. That is not what I said that some schools could completely ignore the standards that have been set. Cases of refusal to grant a training permit are also defined in relatively narrow terms. But that's it. Now the question is that public authorities in certain cases cannot guarantee quality education. In this case, however, the question arises of the reform of the school system, which has been the subject of heated disputes. After all, we all want our education system to provide everyone with a good education. Consequently, the system must be changed, it must be developed. I don't think anyone's gonna argue with that. There's a reason to argue about how to change. But the fact that we need to change to guarantee fundamental rights is, in my opinion, a statement that has nothing to argue about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U39	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U40	Your Honor, Chancellor! I take your last word for it was 'fundamental rights'. I believe that one of the fundamental rights of a person is the right to be educated in his or her own language. And if there are many representatives of another nation who want to study in their own language, why so firmly prevent them by law? Let them learn if they want! You could have a municipal school like this set up if you wanted to. It's a response to the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U41	But that right, too, is guaranteed. At basic school level, this is clearly stated in the PGS, as I said. In addition, 60% of upper secondary schools are subject to the requirement of education in Estonian, not 100%. I mean, it's guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U42	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your proposal and your presentation, as well as for your answers. No further questions. Dear colleagues, within the framework of this item, a member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask each of the rapporteurs an oral question. After that there will be a round of negotiations in which all members of the Riigikogu can participate. I would now like to ask for the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 10 September, in which Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, and Counsellor of the Head of the Department of Justice, Kärt Muller, had also been invited, who gave appropriate explanations and answered questions from members of the Commission. The problem raised by the Chancellor of Justice has two aspects in a broad sense: the constitutional and legal aspects and, on the other hand, the organisational aspects of education. That is why we also have two presentations today: one from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the other from the Committee on Culture, whose area is the organisation of educational life. That is why we concentrated our debate on the autopsy of this problem from the point of view of the Constitution and at all from the point of view of the law, leaving organisational issues out of the debate, even though they are interrelated. If you look at what the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is and what he requests, this request is quite directly related to the interpretation of the Constitution and the law. That's the way it's supposed to be. When we recall what is written in the Constitution, we read from its preamble that the Constitution and its laws must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. Next, § 6 of the Constitution confirms that the official language of Estonia is Estonian. Paragraph 3 states that state authority is exercised solely on the basis of the Constitution and the laws compatible with it. In this way, we will come from the general principles to the specific recognition that everyone has the right to be taught in Estonian. This is stated in § 37 (4). If we add here the principle that guaranteeing rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities, it will be more or less clear what the will of the people has been and how it needs to be realised in specific laws. We concluded that the Chancellor of Justice's argument is justified and convincing from the point of view of constitution and legality. There is no need to go over it here. I would just like to point out that the obligation to ensure the realisation of rights and freedoms is, to an equal extent, the responsibility of both the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. Local authorities must not use you to circumvent these obligations or to distort or interpret the content of these obligations in a different way than is stated in the Constitution. We therefore considered that the attempt by some local authorities to exercise the powers of public authority to create a private institution to circumvent this requirement is not in line with the meaning or the provision of the Constitution, because according to the meaning of the Constitution and also the provision of the Constitution, the local authority must pursue the general objectives of the public authority. How to do this is a matter of organising educational life, and this topic will be further enlightened in its presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Our brief summary is that we consider the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to be the right one to support the reasoned proposal. There were five members of the Commission in favour, two against and three abstentions. The Commission appointed a rapporteur on behalf of the Commission here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U44	Thank you very much, good fellow. You have questions too. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U45	Mr Maruse! The Chancellor of Justice writes to us that education in a private secondary school governed by public authority instead of teaching in Estonian is not constitutional if it has not previously been verified whether the right of everyone to receive instruction in Estonian is guaranteed when providing education in a foreign language. But if the municipality that wishes to set up a private school in another language proves that there are enough places in its administrative territory or in the private school to be established to ensure education in Estonian, is it constitutional? It makes sense from the text of the Chancellor of Justice that it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U46	Good questioner! The whole point of the problem is who establishes such a private body. Depending on whether it is set up by a local authority or by a group of private parties, the legal situation is completely different. There is a difference between whether individuals have set up a school on a purely private basis or whether they have done so by public authority in order to circumvent their constitutional obligations. In the case of a private initiative, the assessment depends much on what the founders of a private school foresee and record in the founding acts. The establishment of a private school has its own requirements and is also subject to state control. If the power of the state, in the form of an executive power, considers that what is stated in the act of constitution is in line with the objectives and specific norms of the Constitution, it is difficult to comment on what can come out of it. It's a hypothetical situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U47	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, 461 students graduated from primary school in 9th grade in Narva. They took the final exams for language level B1 and the result is that the average score was 49 points out of a possible 100. 108 students received a degree certificate, i.e. less than one quarter. At the same time, the state is responsible for having fully qualified teachers, decent textbooks, methodologies, etc. Does it not seem to you that this is a violation of fundamental law if three quarters of children who learn nearly 1100 hours of Estonian are unable to meet the conditions set by the state when they finish school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U49	Good questioner! Indeed, the objective we are talking about is that education in the state language is available and not only ensures that we receive a certificate, but also that we have the opportunity to participate fully in society, understand this life, go along with it and act everywhere in Estonia. If there are shortcomings in securing this, to which you referred, it is a matter of organising educational life. The situation needs to be corrected. Perhaps the ideal situation will never come, but I admit that cooperation between the Ministry of Education and local heads of education in this area can perhaps be improved. However, this does not mean that it is not necessary to take account of this general objective as such and of the need to keep educational life in line with the meaning and provision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U50	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U51	Good waitress! Here's the question. I so understood from the reply of the Chancellor of Justice that the existence of Russian-language comprehensive schools does not violate the Constitution because the legislator has wished to give local authorities the opportunity to choose the language of instruction. If the legislator were to give such an opportunity in the case of upper secondary schools, would you not consider that we would not be in breach of the Constitution in this dispute?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U52	I repeat, the situation is different, depending on whether the school is set up by the local government or by a group of private persons. If this is a private school established by a local government, I do not see the possibility that this school will be allowed to ignore the purpose and provisions of the Constitution, for example, in such a way that the Estonian language, or state language, is taught as a foreign language. The teaching in Estonian must still be guaranteed, because § 37 of the Constitution says directly that everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian. If all the conditions, including this 60% requirement, are met, for example, then perhaps things are in order from the point of view of the training licence holders. I do not know exactly, it is already a matter of organising educational life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U53	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U54	Mr. Maruse! I learned from your presentation that the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was not consensual. Did the Commission also mention that perhaps the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is erroneous and that this provision in private school law is not unconstitutional? Or did they suddenly say that the provision was wrong, but God, let him stay wrong? Were there any reasons for the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U55	Thanks for asking. Motivation as such was not mentioned. The whole problem created quite a debate in the Commission, but rather the subject of discussion was the organisation of education and not so much the violation of the Constitution. However, we tried to remain within the remit of the Commission. What motivated people voted and shaped their position, it is everyone's own comment. I don't know what to say about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U56	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U57	Dear waitress, I am asking you the same question that I asked the Chancellor of Justice before, that is about the will of the legislator. The Chancellor of Justice did not want to answer me because he only talks about the private school law in his proposal. At the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs certainly analysed the matter more complexly and discussed what the legislator's will was to lay down § 21 (3) of the PGS and how the constitutional right of Russian-speaking children to a high-quality education is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U58	It wasn't exactly what we were discussing in our committee. Once again, it is more a matter of organising educational life than a question of constitutionality. We dissected the problem from this surface, as the Chancellor of Justice raised it before us. We can't go any further than that. But when this question is raised, the following processes will be launched to deal with it, in which answers will have to be sought. However, I repeat: it is not just a question of getting an education in one language or another, but rather of getting a good education in the national language, especially in order for a person to be a full member of society. It is in the interests of everyone and of society. Personally, I am a little sceptical about whether the local government can set up schools whose language of study is not the official language. However, local authorities are obliged to comply with the objectives and provisions of the Constitution. It's his duty, not his right. The right to set up schools with a second language of instruction extends to private individuals, who have freedom of association and other rights, which are also protected by the Constitution. But, yes, I don't see much of a perspective in this move that the local government is setting up a private legal entity in order to pass the Constitution quietly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U59	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U60	Honourable waitress! As we talked about, students have a fundamental right to quality education. At the moment, the situation is such that it does not allow it. There is legislative power and organising executive power, there are requirements and controls. Understood! But in order to put the whole thing together, we still need to explain our responsibilities somehow. It turns out that for years, the responsibility of the state towards the students, as we have talked about, is unfulfilled. How do you think? Students' rights are right here, but our responsibilities are somewhere away, we are currently dealing with requirements and controls. Somehow there is no balance on this issue. What's the most important thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U61	Honourable questioner! This is more of a question of organising educational life. I agree with you that, by setting certain conditions, the state must also ensure that they are met. Perhaps there have been shortcomings or mismanagement for several reasons. But this is a more organisational problem, which does not mean that it should be accepted or approved. It is a continuous process where the readiness of society, development opportunities etc. must also be taken into account. And this is not a unique situation here in Estonia. In such situations, there are other countries where, for example, immigration has brought in a large number of people who do not speak the official language or know the local culture, yet they must be educated. I think that the state must guarantee the necessary resources and create opportunities to ensure better education for everyone. I have nothing to say that this must be guaranteed, but in cooperation with the local authorities, not under the conditions of their retaliation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U62	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U63	Dear waitress, The Reform Party and the Centre Party are both liberal parties. Now I have found on the Internet such a phrase that the Reform Party promotes in its programme classical liberal values such as individual freedom and choice, its supremacy. Please tell me whether, in your opinion, this proposal does not involve a desire to restrict the individual's ability to choose what school to put his or her child to study. Is it not the aim of restricting the autonomous right of the local government to decide which schools to establish, and does not all of this limit to some extent the freedom to conduct a business? Do you think this proposal is consistent with your liberal values?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U64	Indeed, these values are all on the table. But I tried to explain to you that what the Constitution says about the realisation of rights and freedoms is also the responsibility of the local government. Thus, the situation in which a local authority establishes a private school in order to avoid the realisation of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution is not normal and must be brought into line with the Constitution's provision and the spirit. Where a private school is set up by private persons or by persons belonging to a minority, the situation is different, the situation shall be assessed on the basis of the issue of training permits and other conditions. I therefore believe that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal does not restrict in any way the freedom to set up a private school. This freedom extends to private parties, not so much to local authorities or public authorities. They have their limits. But the freedom of establishment, the freedom of association, it is primarily a right of private law, owned by individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U65	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U66	Dear waitress, I was right on top of your last answer. I have followed your debate, as well as the discussion of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this subject. Now, if you look at this analysis, you spoke back a little bit. Because, in fact, what are we discussing? Both the Chancellor of Justice and you have said that the freedom to set up a private school will remain so that municipal schools can be created in the future, just not to say honestly that the school will be set up to overlook the 60% or 40% imposed. So, in principle, if Tallinn or Narva had created a municipal school and claimed that this was the way to provide a better art education, it would have been justified in every way. But if you get into the essence of it, I have this question. How would you analyse from the perspective of the Constitution when it is important that a young person gets a very good knowledge of the national language, a situation where, for example, physical education is not taught in six different Estonian languages, but only eight subjects are taught in Estonian? Is that constitutional enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U67	The level of education, the quality of education is more a matter of organising education life. But I agree that the restriction must not go so far as to prevent local authorities from establishing educational institutions. However, we are talking about language learning and its level. The situation in which a state language is taught at the level of a foreign language in an educational institution is not in line with what is stated in the Constitution and what is required by the Constitution. If, at present, this 60% requirement has been imposed as a system of state policy, it is to be fulfilled. You can't sneak away from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U68	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U69	Dear waitress, I'm interested in the political context of today's discussion. It will sound like criticism of local governments trying to circumvent the Constitution. At the same time, for several centuries it has been the task of local authorities to resist certain efforts of the central authority if they are unacceptable to the local population. Looking at things through the prism of Tartu, my dear hometown, I have produced a series of statements from performances where the Reform Party Mayor has promised during the school discussion that the city of Tartu will be so rich as to organise even one private school in order to maintain its education in Russian. I have also listened to the words of the current President of the Council of the IRL, who has also confirmed that the city is also finding the means to support education in Russian through private school reform. On the basis of today's debate, can I sum up: they are attacking the Estonian Constitution with their statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U70	I wouldn't go that far. I do not think that the mayor of Tartu and other people of Tartu are attacking the Constitution. This issue you have been talking about is, on the one hand, the issue of organising local education, but if we look at this problem from a broader perspective, the state versus the municipality, then we must try to find a reasonable balance. At present, national education policy must ensure that at least 60% of education is provided in Estonian, on the basis of the Constitution, its compatible laws and acts of executive power. This should provide an adequate response in society, an understanding of what is happening in society and an opportunity to have a say, and this requirement must be met. This is not harassment of a local government, it has a general and reasonable purpose and a basis. I believe that there has always been, and will always be, a tension between local authorities and the state, but we must also not forget the general interest and the general good behind them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U71	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U72	Honourable Rait Maruse! I am not interested in the political side of this issue. It's obvious to everyone, it's ugly, not to say disgusting. I'm interested in the legal side of this. If we have a constitution and laws that also impose obligations on local governments, how can it be said that the establishment of a private person relieves someone of the obligations he has in the exercise of the Constitution and the law? If, figuratively speaking, the municipality forms a private living school as a foundation, for example, it does not avoid the obligation to pay subsistence allowance to vulnerable families. How can it ever be said that by setting up a private entity, we can avoid fulfilling the obligations imposed by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U73	As an overall assessment, I agree with you: this is not the way to get rid of obligations. However, there are still two possible situations: I have talked about this several times. If a private institution, it is an educational institution or any other institution, the local authority, which is part of the public authority, is responsible for guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of the residents. Where private parties do the same thing, the situation is slightly different in law and the compatibility of a school or other body set up by private parties with the Constitution, the suitability of the objectives of the institution, etc., is assessed by the State by issuing or not issuing a training permit, establishment permit, etc. So, legally, the situation depends on whether an institution is set up by a public authority or by a group of private parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U74	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U75	Good colleague! The Chancellor of Justice's explanatory memorandum states that the transition to the Estonian language of instruction has been legalised since 15 August 1993. At present, we see that the law already regulates the language of instruction by setting 60% and 40% requirements. That's what my question has to do with it. Did the committee discuss when the Estonian state would be ready to switch to the Estonian language of instruction and what would the law require from 1993?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! As we have said, the main problem is that Russian-speaking students do not receive high-quality education. There are also charts and charts for this. Mr Stalnukhin gave an example of the last year, and you agreed. The situation needs to be improved, we all know it very well. How do you assess the Chancellor of Justice's proposal that we are discussing today? Does that improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U77	Thank you. The Committee on Culture made its decision to the extent that the Chancellor of Justice proposed it. These were the frames on which we brought today a proposal from the Committee on Culture. As regards the organisation of schools and the availability of high-quality education directly linked to it, these are certainly topics that we, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, and the government must continue to deal with. I do not know on what basis and how our committee members voted. We are not doing any conscience or political control. But it is clear that the sowing of legal nihilism should not be tolerated in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U79	Thank you. Good colleague! The main dispute is about whether 60% of Estonian-language education is guaranteed in Russian schools. I wonder what this 60% requirement is based on, whether any methodology has been used here. If, for example, this requirement were 55%, would it be more or less compatible with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U80	Thank you very much. I must repeat myself once again: although the discussions in the Committee on Culture went beyond the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, we did not specifically discuss this issue. That wasn't on the agenda. But why is that ratio 60:40? There must be firm views on the basis of which such decisions have been taken. The willingness of schools to do so has been appreciated. Whether it has been done right or wrong is another question. We can discuss this in the future when we are discussing private school law and basic school and upper secondary school law. But please, colleagues, let us note one thing. The share of Estonian-language learning and the transition to Estonian-language learning will not come to anyone, either to these schools, to the Ministry of Education and Research or to local governments, as a "lightning out of the sky," but it has long been known that this is the direction to move in. In my opinion, this should have been done more effectively in the past. I'm not gonna gold anyone, and I'm not gonna hurt anyone more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U81	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U82	Thank you, good manager. My colleague from the Commission, I apologise in advance. I myself was present on the Commission and therefore cannot ask about the issues that were not discussed there. However, in the light of the developments of the last few days, I have had enormous curiosity and I ask: if we are moving towards the United States of Europe, perhaps we will not cut off the opportunities for our young people to obtain education in English on a much broader scale than is possible now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U83	Thank you very much, my dear colleague. You will certainly have the opportunity to ask such a question at the next meetings of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U84	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U85	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Culture! First of all, it should be noted that we spoke quite a lot in the Committee on Culture also on substantive issues. Indeed, we did not recall 60% and 40% of the consideration. But it might be useful to say that there is actually no analysis behind this, but it is a political decision. In the last discussion of the PGS, this was the only chapter we didn't talk about. The decision was made that we would not discuss it. On the subject, I will ask you the same question as last time. We see that not all Russian schools are prepared to offer this amount of education in Estonian. For example, some schools have said that they are short of three teachers in order to allow 60% of the study to take place in Estonian, and they have asked for some extension. They have said that they are now ready to take about 20% of their studies in Estonian, and next year they will reach 40%, etc. When analyzing the substance list, it's adequate. Is this an unconstitutional act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U86	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U87	Mr President, thank you. No further questions. Good colleagues, I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really happy to speak here today to protect the Estonian language and normal democratic regime, especially in a situation where a deputy mayor of Tallinn has already threatened to break the windows and steal the cologne because of this debate. We are actually discussing a really everyday issue here today, although some colleagues seem to be confused about the difference between private money and public money, justice and duty, or what is written in the Constitution at all. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, with which the Chancellor of Justice has approached us, is, in fact, the use of public money for non-purpose purposes, not in accordance with the procedures prescribed for that purpose. This concerns a particularly important area of responsibility for adults, namely the education of our children. After all, the question we are discussing today is equally understandable for every schoolboy. For a moment, let us imagine a situation where a father sends his son to a store to buy two litres of milk and brings a euro to that end. My son goes shopping, but he buys a lollipop because he doesn't care about the requirement to spend the euro for two litres of milk. Lollipop, of course, is a beautiful dubious value for health and teeth, but that is not the main issue. The main issue is that milk was not purchased, the money entrusted to the boy to buy milk was used for other purposes and not for the healthiest. Yes, it is true that everything that is not allowed to be held in public is essentially prohibited. Tallinn has behaved similarly irresponsibly with taxpayers' money. Taxpayer's money has been used for a purpose that according to all studies is not healthy, because without good national language skills, the future prospects of young people are much more limited; these young people have been deprived of the necessary start-up capital for life. Moreover, the City Government of Tallinn has used all taxpayers' money for this and it has used it incorrectly. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union are of the opinion that in the interests of these very young people, in fact all our children, the legislator must take the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice with all seriousness. However, the question has also been raised several times in this Chamber today of whether lollipops should be prohibited at all, so that no child would spend any money on buying lollipops for future purchases of milk, once again using this simplified comparison. The clear answer of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association is no. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association supports the diversity of the education system and the diversity of choice. Since the 1992 programme of Isamaa, the equivalent support for private schools has been one of the flag letters of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. We support learning any foreign languages and consider that in upper secondary school, young people must also have broad opportunities to develop themselves in the field of language learning and knowledge of other cultures. However, this must not be done by not buying milk. It's as simple as that. I am not comparing private schools with lollipops, I am asking you not to misunderstand, I am over-emphasising just in case, but I have just illustrated the possible twists of the use of public authority money, which I hope will be adjusted in the Committee on Culture after the Riigikogu has decided. The preservation of Estonian language and culture throughout history is very important to us. When amending the Private School Act, it must be ensured that the school system that is supported by public money in Estonia really guarantees every young person a good knowledge of Estonian culture and excellent language skills. If in addition to good Estonian language skills, for example, Russian language and culture are to be taught in depth in private schools, this is only to be welcomed. As a parent, I would be very pleased if Tallinn really had a strong Russian lyceum and one of my children would go there to learn in order to gain an in-depth knowledge of Russian language and culture. As Mr Sooäär has already said, we probably also need to learn Chinese and Japanese and many other languages and cultures in depth, linguistic diversity in upper secondary school, without compromising good national language skills. Equal treatment is also very important for the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Let us remind the City Government of Tallinn that supporting private schools with public money is of great value, but children must not be distinguished by whether a private school is established by local government or by private persons. If Tallinn wants to support private education, which in itself is very grateful, this should be done equally, i.e. by offering all private schools operating in Tallinn a building and the full maintenance of the school building and the school staff. When speaking about private schools, however, it is not private schools established by the local government, but private schools established by private persons. For them, the possibility of setting up private schools is meant to be. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U89	Thank you very much. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chancellor of Justice! First of all, I want to stop at the origin of the problem that we have presented today. The Government of the Republic confirms the national curricula of basic school and upper secondary school, which set out the competences in the various subjects that students must achieve when completing the relevant school level. The law states that in a school or class whose language of study is not Estonian, the study of Estonian is compulsory from the first class onwards. The school ensures the organisation of Estonian language learning at a level that enables comprehensive school graduates to continue their studies in educational institutions with an Estonian language of instruction. According to the curriculum, this means that a graduate can speak Estonian at least at level B1 and upper secondary school at level B2. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides that the study language of the upper secondary school in the Republic of Estonia is Estonian. At the same time, the Act allows the Government of the Republic to grant permission to upper secondary schools or individual classes exceptionally to conduct studies in a foreign language, i.e. to teach less than 60% of the volume of the curriculum in Estonian. If, in practice, all these requirements were met, we would probably not be discussing the problem before us. The Private School Act has been in force since 1998 and so far it has not been possible to interfere with the Constitution. In practice, however, we see that a large number of graduates of the Russian-speaking primary schools of Tallinn and Narva do not speak Estonian at B1. On the other hand, it is doubtful whether it is possible to acquire the high-quality knowledge required in the upper secondary school curriculum in Estonian at this level too, because level B1 means that you will understand what you hear in the communication situation when a conversation takes place on a familiar subject related to everyday life. The curriculum, by the way, does not require biology, mathematics or any other subject to be taught in Estonian, but clearly separates language skills and subject skills. I don't know anyone who doesn't think that a young person who went to school in Estonia should not be able to speak Estonian properly when graduating from upper secondary school and at the same time have the knowledge required in special subjects curricula on an equal level with a young person in Estonian. What, though, can be done in a specific, obviously controversial situation? Two approaches are possible here. Social Democrats consider it appropriate to significantly improve the teaching of the Estonian language as the first foreign language in primary school so that all Russian-speaking schools can finally meet the legal requirement so that primary school graduates can continue their studies in Estonian-language educational institutions. The Ministry of Education considers the second solution right: forcing students who do not speak Estonian properly to study 60% of the special subjects in Estonian in upper secondary school. Whether such coercion will result in the Estonian language being mastered on an appropriate level when graduating from upper secondary school, we do not yet know. However, we can be sure today that the level of knowledge of such students in the special subjects they learn in the Estonian language will not increase the competitiveness of these young people in accessing higher education. We have repeatedly expressed the fear that making such a coercive happiness could ruin the fate of a number of young people and make them enemies of the Estonian language and of the Estonian state. Local authorities exposed to the real situation in schools made a request to the Government of the Republic to grant 14 upper secondary schools the exception permitted by law. Apart from the German upper secondary school and two upper secondary schools for adults, the government refused to do so in other schools even in individual classes, without wanting to understand the situation of specific young people and their families who are not guilty of failing to comply with the basic school and upper secondary school law requirements. The municipalities of Tallinn and Narva were therefore forced to do so. They found the idea of establishing private secondary schools in Russian for young people who are unable to acquire 60% of the curriculum in Estonian at a high quality. I would point out that in these upper secondary schools there is also a requirement for a state curriculum to acquire Estonian language at B2 at the time of graduation. The Social Democrats are not enthusiastic about this way out of the meaning of the law, but we understand that it is forced by the decision of the Government of the Republic to refuse to grant the exception permitted by law. The proposal discussed by the Chancellor of Justice today also wants this opportunity to be closed to local authorities, based on the argument that public money must not be spent bypassing the law. At the same time, the reasons given by the Chancellor of Justice are that education in a language other than the Estonian language is not constitutional if it has not previously been verified whether the right of everyone to receive education in Estonian is guaranteed in a foreign language, probably interpreted in various ways. I would like to point out that the Constitution sets out in the section 'Fundamental rights, freedoms and obligations' as the right of a citizen to study in Estonian, not as an obligation. The obligation to provide this education to everyone is, of course, for the municipality and the state. But I imagine the municipality can prove that it has granted everyone the right to receive instruction in Estonian either in other municipal schools working on the territory of the same municipality or even in other classes of this private school. Such a legal dispute would probably be resolved by the Supreme Court, where the Chancellor of Justice would have been right to turn with his suspicion. It seems to us that this issue has been brought before us today, not so much for constitutional reasons, but rather for day-to-day policy reasons, with the wish to do so to the city authorities of Tallinn and Narva. This is a complex pedagogical and even more complex political issue, which is why, according to the sots, it is completely inappropriate to use the Constitution as an instrument of political struggle in such a situation. The conflict between local authority and state would be easily solved if the government were to comply with the law and allow for an exception in upper secondary school for young people in other languages who are currently simply not yet able to acquire subjects of high quality in Estonian. This would certainly take away the desire of municipalities to set up private schools in other languages. Mr Chancellor of Justice! Excuse me, but we think you've been torn into a faceless, years-long show of power between the government and Tallinn. Its previous stages were the reformulation of the Local Government Council Election Act and Land Tax Act, which, by the way, ultimately benefited Tallinn's current power. We predict that, if Parliament provides for the ban you want, it can be assumed that, based on the requirements of life and the real needs of young people, municipalities will still find a new way to ensure high-quality upper secondary school education, and then the government coalition will again come to the Riigikogu with a bill that will try to prevent it. We believe that the current and very important educational policy issue should be resolved, in particular in the interests of students, which is also an opportunity under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, by empowering the government to make the specific exceptions required by life. However, if we look at the use of public money as a whole to support private education, we can see that it needs complex processing, and the solution is certainly not just a formal legal ban that municipalities cannot set up private schools in other languages. As we believe that Parliament should deal with the substantive positive solution of the problem and not once again with the simple removal of the local governments, by closing their eyes to the real problem, the Social Democrats do not consider it possible to take part in the vote on this issue, because any vote simply means participating in the infinite political show between Toompea and Tallinn, forgetting the real Russian-speaking gymnastics who need understanding from the state and certainty in order to continue their education in the Republic of Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U91	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U92	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am in Riigikogu for the fourth time, but for the first time I will inform you that I will perform today as a language teacher, not as a politician. To put it simply, I took down my party sign and I'm talking to you now from the position of teacher. I'm going to show you a pretty common tenth grade math problem. Three players A, B, C will play the next game. Each player has a sheet of paper on which the name of the player is written at the beginning of the game. Player A selects one player from the rest, deletes the name on his paper and writes the one on his paper instead. Next, player B will make the same move, then player C will go back to player A.The game ends when all players' pages have the same name and the winner is the player whose name it is. Do any of the players have a winning strategy (the strategy by which he wins in the event of any counterplay against the opponents)? If we take away all of these different letters, i.e. if there were just text without these red, green and purple letters (the stenogram contains the under- and superscripts of text instead of different colours, and the underlined lines of text, the italics and everything, if not, you would see the picture as if it were seen by an Estonian child. He takes the text as a whole because it is his native language, in that language he speaks all his life. Although it may seem strange to some in this hall, the speaking process and the processes that occur in the brain are actually quite closely linked. Stereotypes that have developed in the brain during life help one person learn, or they don't bother him, but they disturb the other. What do you see now? You will see how this exercise is seen again in the sense of a Russian child who is studying mathematics in Estonian at a gymnasium. What does he have to do besides just mathematically solve this problem? Look, there's some word compounds in the greasy shrift. These are the places where the order of words does not correspond to the order of words in Russian. This means that when he solves this problem, he has to fix and translate these places for himself, otherwise the result does not correspond to what is expected of him. In this little text, there are places like this after six sentences of seven. Could you bear the pressure? Now it's different. There are about 70 words here (I didn't exactly count). Among them are 17 words, the beginning of which is uniform. Their strain is the same, but there's actually some strings of words, and some are inverses, not to mention that in one place the des-form comes in. All this information needs to be plucked out of his brain. So he doesn't solve a mathematical problem yet, he solves a linguistic problem for himself first. Next. Look at these red, purple and green stars: these are different endings. But there are many places where there is seemingly one end, but the meaning is different. It's language logic, it's language psychology. A person is unable to complete an equivalent upper secondary school education in a foreign language other than his or her mother tongue. If I had more time, I would like to give you examples of physics, chemistry, history and literature. As a language teacher, I understand what you're doing. You don't want to force the Ministry of Education to put in place proper language training. See, these figures below (2011: 461 students, B1 exam, 49.01 (2.89)) refer to the previous year. I specified this morning that these data were received last June. To be exact, there were 479 students and 108 of them received a certificate of proficiency. This means that only a quarter of them are able to study in Estonian at upper secondary school. As a teacher and as a human being, I want to ask this half empty, actually almost empty on the right side of the hall: what are you doing, do you not understand that it is simply hatred of children, hatred of certain children? You're just taunting them. You do not want to deal with the fact that there are proper teachers who will teach Estonian from the first grade, and that we have 479 students and 95 balls here and have a certificate of proficiency for everyone. Why don't we want to deal with it? By taking advantage of the occasion, I invite you to visit on October 25th. I will probably bring here a kindergarten in Narva where language learning is done by a person who, unlike the Ministry, knows how to do it, and those who wish can see the result. Why don't you want to pay attention to the fact that the Ministry of Education employs complete dilemmas who can push but can't teach? Why do children have to suffer? But I gave you an explanation. Children encounter these problems every hour every day for three years. If you ever ask yourself why, as happened with one class, which I personally know, where 32 children studied, 18 of whom left Estonia after graduation, and another 7 or 8 are unknown where, probably also outside Estonia, there is no one to blame but yourself. I'm not calling for anything, I was just showing you what a picture looks like when those who understand it take part in the debate. I have a request to the verbatim service that the text of this task be included in the verbatim, because otherwise it is not possible to understand what we have been talking about here. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U93	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Allik has already presented the position of the Social Democrats on the subject under discussion, so I will only add one nuance. The Chancellor of Justice is right to say that everyone's right to study in Estonian is protected by the Constitution and that the organisation of education, or the fulfilment of this particular purpose, is under the supervision of the State. No one is questioning this, of course, nor is it that Russian youths can speak good Estonian when they finish school. As regards the motivation behind this proposal, i.e. the plans of the Tallinn and Narva authorities to establish a private school, this is obviously not the most beautiful move in law, but is clearly due to the fact that the government has not allowed some schools to continue their studies in Russian at secondary school. The Chancellor of Justice writes: 'The aim of submitting the choice of language at upper secondary school to the permit procedure is to ensure that everyone actually has the opportunity to receive instruction in Estonian. " If only this were the case, i.e. if the government had decided whether or not education in the Estonian language of this particular municipality would remain available after the establishment of this private school or the continuation of Russian-language education! Take Tallinn, for example. What are we talking about? If eight schools were granted an exception and continued Russian-language education, how would it affect the availability of Estonian-language education in the capital? It is, of course, the political unwillingness of the government to create a sensible and flexible system that guarantees both good language skills and a high level of knowledge of the subject. Such a system would certainly not hit all schools with one tree, but would take into account the regional and educational characteristics of schools and pupils. Some of my colleague Stalnukhin was just talking about. In Narva, Mustvee, Valga and Pärnu there are very different integration environments and they should not, of course, be subjected to the same legal provision. This, of course, has not been done by the legislator, but has allowed exceptions under Paragraph 21 (3) of the PGS, if possible. I would like to stress once again that the rigidity of the government, which is also a slave experiment with Russian youths, has not been the will of the legislator. What was the legislator's will to legitimise exceptions? The Chancellor of Justice did not want to answer my question because it is out of the scope of his analysis. In my opinion, it is not possible to analyse § 15 of the Private Schools Act and its constitutionality without analysing the PGS as a whole and, in particular, § 21 (3) of the PGS. On the other hand, the Chancellor of Justice in his proposal, however, is operating with the will of the legislator, which he did not explain to me. The proposal states that the authorities of Tallinn and Narva hope that through the creation of a private school, they will be able to ignore the decision of the Government of the Republic and thereby ignore the will of the legislator. Please note that the government's decision here is equated with the will of the legislator. My question was answered by the Chancellor of Justice that, since the organisation of education is under the supervision of the State, it is organised by the government and the local government cannot rely on the paragraph by which the legislative power allows an exception and must obey the government. In this speech, the state is equated with the government. I find it very interesting to hear such a statement from the Chancellor of Justice of a democratic and parliamentary state. While we are accustomed to hearing certain statements of this style, such as 'State.. it is I' or 'Tallinn it is I', I hope the Chancellor of Justice was simply wrong in his formulation and still considers the decision of the legislator and the government to be two different things. As I have already said, without analysing § 21 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, i.e. the whole issue of exemption and, of course, the possibility or impossibility of providing high-quality Russian-language education in general, I do not think it is possible to take a position on this particular issue. As long as there is no holistic approach, this is a purely day-to-day issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U95	Mr President! I will bring out some of the principles on which the Reform Party Group will take its decision in the vote today and I will talk about what has been discussed in the Group. Firstly, I will comment in a few words on the previous speeches. I am very sorry that some colleagues are trying to drag the honourable Chancellor of Justice into the day-to-day policy of the institution. Such action and such speeches are certainly deplorable. The Chancellor of Justice referred to the inconsistency of a provision of the Private Schools Act with the Constitution. In the opinion of the Reform Party Group, this is a very fundamental issue. It is whether or not the local authority fulfils the obligation imposed on it by the Constitution as a public authority, simply trying to trick and circumvent that obligation. This principle, which is enshrined in the Constitution, is sacred, the Constitution is sacred. We unequivocally believe that rejection is not tolerated, and we agree with the Chancellor of Justice that private school law must definitely be brought into line with the Constitution. Public authority has its duties and responsibilities in the exercise of state authority and must be respected. Clearly, there are a number of problems with our school arrangements. These problems have also been highlighted in this Chamber today, including the problem of preparing for the transition to education in Estonian. But we call on all colleagues in the plenary hall and the local government staff to work together and to work together to achieve the goal of transition to education in Estonian. All of us must aim to ensure that the people of Estonia can do as well as possible by living and delivering their lives in Estonia and that everyone can contribute to enriching Estonian society and also to organising their own lives in a better quality. So please, let us not oppose, let us not make political statements at the address of the Chancellor of Justice or by heating passions at the address of Russian youth! The Reform Party Group supports the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U96	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U97	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't actually planning on coming here, but I had a strong desire to thank Liisa-Ly Pakosta and with her all of you who press the green button right away for still worrying about my child getting milk in the national language you bought. Thank you! But believe me, I can teach my child the official language without someone twisting his brains in a tenth grade physics class in a broken language. Here today, a reference to the Constitution and the Preamble of the Constitution has sounded at least five or six times. I'll remind you of this preamble, just in case. I have this feeling that we all remember only the preamble to this place, which speaks of the need to ensure the preservation of Estonian nation and culture through the ages. In fact, this preamble reads: 'The unwavering faith and unwavering will to insure and develop the state created by the undying justice of the state self-determination of the Estonian people and proclaimed on 24 February 1918, founded on freedom, justice and the right to defend internal and external peace and placed on present and future generations for their social success and overall benefit, which must guarantee the survival of the Estonian nation, language and culture through the ages, on the basis of § 1 of the Constitution, which entered into force in 1938, the Estonian people adopted the following constitution in the referendum of 28 June 1992. ' I believe that a country founded on freedom, justice and justice is what we must keep in mind all the time and which we should not go over with political authority. As a member of the Riigikogu and a representative of the Russian community, I find that we are currently violating justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U98	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U99	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! In recent years, the future of a school in other languages (or, as has been mentioned here today, a Russian-speaking school) in Estonia has been under constant political debate. Unfortunately, the issue of education or the real situation in schools is often completely sidelined. Today, too, we have spoken in this complex legal language about who, and for what reason, must not deviate from the obligation that upper secondary school classes should be transferred to the Estonian language. We have also talked about percentages. However, the Chancellor of Justice has not today answered the main question of whether all children will be given a good education that can enter the labour market and the ability to further study in higher education. Once again, we are forgetting what our primary goal is. The aim of upper secondary school education is high-quality education and knowledge in all subjects corresponding to the national curriculum. Thus, we need to provide students with knowledge, in particular, in subjects. The second, and for many, the main and not at all controversial issue is certainly a very good national language skills. That's what everyone wants. Everyone and undoubtedly everyone wants a good knowledge of the Estonian language, that is what the Russian-speaking young people are talking about, as well as their parents. Therefore, no one disputes the principle that in a gymnasium where Estonian is not the language of instruction, Estonian language education is compulsory and the graduate should be able to pass the Estonian language proficiency test successfully. The Estonian language and subjects in Estonian must be taught on such a scale and quality that the graduate can go on to higher education in Estonian or to work. If our goal is for children to have a very good knowledge of the Estonian language from language lessons, and this has been the case since kindergarten (I recall that this obligation has also been agreed upon), then it is possible, and many people also feel, necessary to support language lessons with practice by teaching several subjects in Estonian. Since the 1960's, some subjects have been taught in foreign languages in deep schools. We have pedagogical and methodological knowledge; we can use them successfully. After all, many people who work at a Russian school or university have had experience in Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden, Great Britain and elsewhere, how and what can be taught successfully in a foreign language. We must understand together that it is not practical or possible to teach other foreign languages in Estonian as a foreign language, such as English, French, German, Spanish, or Chinese. Nor does it make sense to consider the teaching of various courses in physical education, for example, even in a very fluent Estonian language, as essential language learning. Several scientists have also proven that very many students are not able to acquire natural and physical subjects in a foreign language at the level they are able to acquire in their native language. This is why, in 2002 and 2003, in cooperation with university faculty and subject specialists, it is precisely those subjects that are currently included in the compulsory indexes and provide students with good language practice and vocabulary, but at the same time do not prevent them from acquiring the subjects prescribed in the curriculum or successfully taking state examinations. The calculation of the percentage of compulsory subjects does not guarantee a high-quality Estonian language learning organised uniformly at national level. At national level, there is a need to organise in a systematic and uniform manner the teaching of subjects in Estonian as a foreign language in upper secondary schools in other languages, which ensures a uniform quality through teachers' continuing training and nationally developed teaching tools, and provides feedback to the state as well as an opportunity for verification. Especially talented students will always have the opportunity to continue their studies at the Estonian-language gymnasium. The steady decline in the number of students in upper secondary schools in the Russian language shows this trend. At the same time, the current policy of intimidation creates a worrying situation where in Estonian subjects are often taught ruggedly in a very flawed and subjective way, and in the end it does not guarantee either the knowledge of the Estonian language or the knowledge of the subject. A uniform system at national level gives the schools confidence and the opportunity to find new teachers for these subjects, also thanks to public support. We must all aim to support schools in other languages, give them opportunities and listen to them. I believe that everyone understands that if some of the strongest upper secondary schools in Estonia, such as the Tallinn Tõnismäe Reaalkool and the Narva Pähklimäe Gymnasium, which students bring us international recognition from the substance olympiads, say that they are not yet ready to teach in Estonian at 60%, but, for example, 38%, they must be listened to. We need to step out of the political debate for a moment and ask why this is the case, what is missing and how we can support these schools. The compulsory list of subjects submitted to the upper secondary school contains a number of subjects that cannot be taught to each young person in Estonian or which are acquired by very few. Secondly, there is a large volume of foreign languages here, as I have already said, and physical education. But there are a number of subjects whose instruction in Estonian can be combined with the state of the art, and that is primarily a national interest, to prepare the interest of all of us in essence. I hope that the aim of all of us is to provide people who speak other languages as their mother tongue with an excellent knowledge of the Estonian language without suffering from their knowledge of the subject. In addition to studying Estonian, it is compulsory to study Estonian literature, social studies in Estonian (I remind you that this is also the basis of the citizenship kexam), music teaching, Estonian history and, for example, human geography or entrepreneurship education, which is new subject and quite well prepared. This ensures that young people can practice the Estonian language, read in Estonian and develop their vocabulary. Schools, however, are given the assurance that the state's aim is not to fine or intimidate, but to support and advise. It is very important that, in this peaceful atmosphere, students are able to regain confidence in their country, the Estonian state, and in them they want to contribute to the future of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U100	Thank you very much. I have listened very carefully to these issues, which mention the problems of school organisation. I am also aware, because of my earlier work, that such problems exist. Of course, this road is complicated, so-called thorny, but it must not be denied. Certainly, these things need to be dealt with very seriously and in a variety of ways. But this road is really complicated. The Committee on Culture formulated its decision today, I would like to emphasise once again, within the framework proposed by the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U101	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U102	Thank you very much. These schools are working. I don't know if it's Chinese, probably not. But the establishment of private schools, as well as international schools, is quite acceptable. They're working, and they're very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U103	Honourable questioner, this was not discussed in our committee. The law also sets out the purpose pursued by the state or the people. It may have been manifested as an objective in 1993, but it has taken time and effort to carry it out in practice. This is also understandable because it is a long-term social process where resources are needed, organisation and consensus are needed. For this reason, the implementation of the plans has been delayed. I don't know for sure, but I think that's how it's been. Whether the ratio of 60 to 40 is justified or not is the question of feasibility assessment. At a particular point in time and in a particular situation, it has probably been found that this is precisely what can be done. We live in the time we are in now and within the limits of the possibilities we have to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U104	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U105	Dear colleague, first of all, I would like to thank you for your legal and very meaningful answers. But we know that the decision taken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not consensual. I want to ask: do you think those who opposed this decision voted politically?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U106	I don't know how to comment on that. You have to ask the people who voted like this. It's beyond my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U107	Dear Rait Maruse, thank you. No further questions. Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U108	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On the agenda of the Committee on Culture, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal for adequate access to education in Estonian (No 16) was on our session on Monday, 10 September and Tuesday, 11 September. On the first day, we listened to the Chancellor of Justice's report. He was assisted by the Head of Department of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice - Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Kärt Muller. We had also asked the Minister of Education and Science, Jaak Aaviksoo, and the Chancellor of the Ministry, Janar Holm, to provide explanations on this matter. On the second day of September 11, the Committee on Culture made a decision. According to this decision, the Committee on Culture agreed with the Chancellor of Justice and considers that § 15 (1) of the Private Schools Act is contrary to the Constitution and the Private Schools Act needs to be brought into line with the Constitution. There were 5 members of the Committee on Culture in favour of this decision, 1 against, 1 abstention and 2 abstentions. That was our decision. In the Committee on Culture, as in this Chamber today, the Chancellor of Justice made a thorough presentation. It makes no sense for me to go over it and repeat it. The questions that were put to the Chancellor of Justice and the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu in the Commission were broadly the same as were put here today in this large Chamber, although today's questions have been much more nuanced, because there are also an incredible number of questioners here than in the Commission. It is important to note that the Minister of Education and Science agreed to the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and also considered it necessary to analyse and amend the provisions of the Private School Act. I will briefly summarise the Commission's discussions and talk about these issues. The issue of organising education is currently very seriously on the agenda. The government is about to initiate an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The question therefore arose as to whether to make corrections to the problem raised by the Chancellor of Justice in the Private School Act or whether it is sufficient for us to make them in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which is open for amendment. There was a debate about this. We also found and formulated our decision in such a way that this issue must be resolved in the context of private school law. Local government tasks were discussed in depth. Does the local authority perform public authority tasks in the context of schools or are they other tasks? In the discussions, however, the view remained that the task of the local government, guaranteeing the right to education, is the responsibility and responsibility of the public authority. Indeed, here too, you asked the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about the situation when it is a private school and the local government is involved. You asked whether it was quite correct that this route was being attempted by a very clear-cut and indeed by the transition to Estonian-language learning, which was already on the agenda since 1993. The Committee on Culture did not shape its decision here; we did not vote on this narrow issue. But it is quite clear that these educational issues will be examined more closely now that we are opening a private school law to amend. Of course, we will also discuss them in the course of the procedure of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In this context, the issue of issuing a training licence was raised. The question was, if a private school applies for a training permit and there are tricks being done here, and the local government is trying to get past this 60:40 requirement. Neither the Minister for Education and Science nor our committee formulated as an imperative the principle that it is unacceptable and that the principle of 60:40 principles must be followed very clearly when issuing a training permit. However, the Minister said that there is probably also a need to review the procedure for issuing a training permit. It is probably not enough to rely solely on the development plan for the issue of a training licence. But I stress that it was only a debate; the Commission did not make a decision here. The Commission also discussed the issue of whether we should regulate the activities of private schools more precisely at all, whether we do not even have too many, and whether there is no certain anarchy in establishing private schools and private schools. The activities of the higher education institutions have narrowed down; we no longer have more than 60 private universities. But this, too, was only discussed at the level of discussions. Here, too, the Commission did not make a decision. In conclusion, I can say that during the debate on this item, there were a number of issues of organisation that we did not consider possible (this would not be practically possible) by evaluating the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 16. These issues of school organisation arise in the process of processing the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which is currently in the government's coordination circle. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U109	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You are certainly much more familiar with this than the honourable Chancellor of Justice or Mrs Maruse. I mean the educational side. The Chancellor of Justice's analysis has such a beautiful sentence: 'All words and their meanings, including hidden meanings, are not taught in foreign language lessons. Nor do these classes reveal the deeper meanings, the meanings and (historical) background of sentences that are understood by Estonians. ' But we know very well that these subjects, with the exception of Estonian, are usually taught by Russian-speaking people whose Estonian language is unfortunately flawed. I would simply ask you to remind your colleagues, for clarification, which subject the national curriculum provides for teaching Estonian at B2 or C1 at upper secondary school level. Is it physics or some other subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U111	Thank you very much, my dear colleague. I said at the beginning of my speech that, when the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was dissected, the Committee on Culture was still trying to do so within the framework of the question of whether or not the relevant section of the Private Schools Act was compatible with the Constitution. Indeed, in the course of the debate, there were also broader issues, but we did not become so specific on this issue that you have now put forward. I do not want to make the debate too broad on this item, but I am saying that I understand perfectly what problems you are referring to. I've been to Estonian schools. The Committee on Culture recently visited Narva, and although educational issues were not the most important, they came up. So we are well aware of these issues. The problems you are referring to are certainly there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U112	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I discussed this year with my colleague Marus, last year, and I will offer you this for discussion, for 2012. This year he graduated from comprehensive school in Narva and passed the B1 exam with 454 students. These are people for whom the state must ensure the acquisition of the Estonian language at B1. The average score was 43, which is six less than last year. Only 108 people received a certificate of proficiency. Tell me, please, how can you seriously talk about the proficiency of Estonian at upper secondary school level if children cannot achieve a B1 level in 1100 hours in primary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U114	Thank you, dear colleague. I can answer you, and I must say that the Committee on Culture did not discuss this particular issue on this agenda, and that could be the point. But let us put three points and say that, for example, the Committee on Culture has taken seriously the subject of teacher training and teacher preparation, including the problems of continuing teacher training, with which we come to this great hall. This is, for example, one area in which the problem you have presented can be addressed. But the facts on which you stopped are, of course, serious. It seems to me, too, that the Ministry of Education and Research and local governments together, not in contrast, but together, must find a way to enable students to receive the best possible education in school, which would enable them to cope in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U115	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U116	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I do not know if the Commission was at all concerned with this issue, but according to the current logic, another ethnic minority, even the Chinese, could also set up a small private school in Estonia. Estonian media tells of Tuuli Roosma's family moving to Siberia. I think that if a young Estonian family could get a very good offer so that they could move to China in a few years' time, it would be quite useful for this family to put children in a Chinese-speaking school. Would schools of other ethnic minorities be an option in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U117	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Good fellows! Before we prepare the final vote, I will say a few words about it. As President, I am voting on the question of who is in favour of the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, since there is now a little more of us in the Chamber, I repeat that, as President, I will put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. There are 44 votes for and 20 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Committee on Culture to initiate a draft to bring the private school law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U118	We will go to the second item on the agenda, which is the debate on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 17. The proposal concerns the absolute requirement for a permanent stay in Estonia when applying for citizenship. Good fellows! Before we go to the item on the agenda, let me brief you on the procedure for this. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice's report, which lasts up to 20 minutes, follows a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, which also lasts up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. After that there are negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. After the negotiations, we will vote on the question of who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As is clear from the proposal that I have tabled, which I am not of course going to recount to you, I would ask you to bring the conditions of citizenship in the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution in terms of locality censorship. In particular, § 6 (21) and (22) of the Citizenship Act in conjunction with § 11 of the Citizenship Act, the absolute requirement for non-disputed locality censorship is contrary to § 29 of the Constitution, which provides for freedom of occupation and occupation, and § 11, which states that rights and freedoms may be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. If you support my proposal, these provisions of the Citizenship Act should probably be brought into line with the Constitution in such a way as to add a margin of discretion to the norm or norms, namely as regards specific cases. I have been approached by publishers who have lived in Estonia for decades and have permanently linked their lives to Estonia. Both wish to become Estonian citizens, but because of their work, they cannot fulfil the absolutely established locality censorship laid down by law. According to the current law, in order to acquire Estonian citizenship, a person should essentially give up his profession. At the same time, however, the Constitution lays down the right to freely choose the field of activity and also that persons must be treated equally, regardless of their profession. I admit that, in general terms, no one has a subjective right to naturalisation for the citizenship of a particular country, since the formation of citizenship policy is considered to be part of the sovereignty of each country. However, the State should not treat persons arbitrarily or fully disregard other fundamental rights without consideration and strong ground. Similarly, according to the Constitution, a person still has the right to consider a particular case in order for the State to assess the circumstances of the case when making a decision. The state's legal order, the norm should be such that a balance can be found between the state and the individual. I believe that localism can contribute to creating a close link between the state and man, but localism should not be provided for as too rigid, as absolute, so that it does not allow for exceptions, without consideration. Citizenship policy should not exclude becoming a citizen of people who are essentially members of Estonian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U120	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. There's a question for you. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U121	Thank you. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! For self-education and also for the verbatim report, I ask this question: does the current provision not make it possible to interpret cases such as the case of a long-distance driver who performs his duties as an employee of a company registered in Estonia, or the case of a sailor who performs his duties on a ship flying the flag of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U122	The current Citizenship Act, yes, does not allow these cases to be interpreted in this way. It is precisely the presence of Estonia that requires a very rigid degree of locality. These are the cases that I described in my report. In fact, I described the case of long-distance sailors who were not physically present in Estonia during the required period of time in the Citizenship Act. As has been said, the current Citizenship Act does not allow such an interpretation. In this sense, the law should be amended to take into account, for example, the representatives of long-distance seafarers or other professions, who have a family in Estonia and who also pay taxes here. Locality should not, in essence, be an obstacle to the creation of citizenship as a connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U123	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your report and your answer. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 10 September, where Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder and Chancellor of Justice Helen Kranich were present, who provided appropriate explanations on the proposal. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal, as he explained, has come about in two specific cases, at least one of which I know has also been through the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg (shipmaster's case). However, since the European Convention on Human Rights does not provide for the right to citizenship, we formally rejected it there, but it did not solve the problem. There's still a problem. This case is based on two individual cases, but at least hypothetically the same problem may also arise, for example, for pilots or air crews, as well as for expeditions or transport companies, if drivers are forced to stay outside Estonia for more than 183 days and for a continuous period of several years. Thus, the conflict between legal regulation and real living needs is evident. The principles of Estonian citizenship were established in the early 1990s and have been unchanged in substance until today. The current law provides that a person must stay 183 days, i.e. half a year, on the territory of Estonia for citizenship, for five years in a row, without any exceptions. So this is a rather rigid condition. But time and world have changed around us. Everything has become more globalized and people have started to move more. In addition to what the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out, there is also this element that there is a principle of free movement of labour in the European Union, i.e. everyone has the right to move around freely and to take advantage of the opportunities for self-realisation. Therefore, European Union law, like that, would require that we cannot impose such a condition of rigid citizenship. The Chancellor of Justice rightly emphasised the right of everyone to exercise themselves freely and that all people, regardless of their nationality, must be treated equally. However, the current regulation and practice do not allow this principle to be fully and purposefully implemented. We found that the Chancellor of Justice's argument is well founded and in line with the objectives and provisions of the Constitution. For this reason, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 17. We did so unanimously, perhaps by consensus, as we are told. I also call on the Riigikogu plenary to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U125	Dear waitress, thank you. You have at least one question. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U126	Thank you. I ask you a little bit more to break hair: is there a certain difference between those seafarers who work on a ship flying the flag of Estonia and those who work on a ship flying the flag of another country who are more than born on the Estonian land territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U127	Good questioner! Yes, the ships flying the flag of Estonia are the territory of the Estonian state and therefore this problem does not exist very much on these ships. However, there are a very small number of ships under the Estonian flag. This case has to do with the fact that a man found a way to work on a ship owned by a company in another country in a free way of self-realization. In fact, the situation was similar for the other person who was simply a member of the crew. The current situation is that people move around the world and have the right to apply for positions that they like. This should be taken into account by the legal regulation. Our current rigid regulation does not allow this. In fact, from the point of view of the protection of rights and freedoms, it would be reasonable if, in individual cases, a margin of discretion had been established, which the Chancellor of Justice also suggested and on which he relied in making his proposal. Individual cases shall be traceable and verifiable. Not only should we look at the formal requirement to stay on the territory, but also other things: whether a person has a family in Estonia, whether he has any other ties to which he or she pays his or her taxes, etc. It may be that you are physically located on Estonian territory, but your heart and spirit are somewhere else, and may be the other way around. In short, these things should be individually assessed and monitored. This would not change in any way the essence or content of our citizenship policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U128	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U129	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! In order to break this broken hair once more, I ask one very specific question: is the cargo ship flying the flag of Estonia always the territory of the Republic of Estonia, or is it only valid if the ship is located in international waters? While in the port of another country, this ship should, as far as I know, become the territory of another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U130	So let's start arguing about the Law of the Sea. The general principle should still be that if a ship flying the flag of Estonia is in international waters, it is the territory of the Estonian state, if it is located in a port of another country for landing and unloading, then the law of that other country will also apply there, but under the control of the captain. That has nothing to do with this. Let's put the details aside. That is not the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U131	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with all the arguments put forward by the Chancellor of Justice and presented by you. But I have a fundamental question. Yes, we are talking about exceptions and discretion. Could the basic concepts not be obsolete in today's sense, i.e. the word'stay' be replaced by 'living'? Maybe I live in Estonia, for example, as we were saying, I have a family here, I pay taxes here, but 365 days a year I work for the Estonian state in Brussels as an interpreter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U133	Thank you! It's possible we're going to specify terms. But I think that the word "living" doesn't solve the problem. That's gonna keep the point of arguing. What does living mean? As practice shows, officials tend to interpret matters more narrowly than more widely, rather than taking more account of people's rights. So it is rather the right way to give the right to such consideration that, in addition to living or staying in Estonia, other important factors that may be determined by the legislator, such as the existence of a family, social ties, ownership of real estate, etc. are taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-13_U134	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can therefore go to the preparation of the vote on the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to initiate a draft to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Good fellows! The second item is closed. There are no other items on the agenda. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 12.24 p.m.
