ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning and a beautiful spring start for all! We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have to submit a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities'. The reason for the change is that Indrek Raudne is no longer a member of the Riigikogu. According to this draft decision, it is proposed that Mr Andres Herkel be replaced by Mr Ülo Tulik as alternate member.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U3	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven of my colleagues, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns a major project that Estonia is planning in cooperation with its southern neighbours, i.e. Rail Baltic and its impact on the city of Pärnu. The possibilities of waiting for Pärnu railway traffic and train have been put on hold for this major project. This waiting period has lasted a long time since 2003 there has been no railway station building in the city of Pärnu. There is still no clarity, as the exact location of the railway station building is not specified in any plan. In this context, we have five questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The answers to these should probably shed light on the Rail Baltic project and also on how it will affect the city of Pärnu in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to process the bill in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. If an inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 21 March, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please, Raivo Järvi, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U6	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I don't want to come to the old things at all, but in relation to the way the media has reflected the unprecedented situation that occurred last week, in which there was a shout in the Chamber 'Get the fuck out'! ', I'm forced to do it. The press has interpreted it as if my criticism of another speaker had sounded. The reason is very simple: if we read the verbatim, we will see that the cryout is unidentified. When we think about history, is it appropriate for the Estonian state and its parliament's reputation to hear anonymous calls from the hall? Maybe later the stationery will fly. We're used to taking responsibility. Therefore, I call on the person who is the author of this reply to contact the board and identify himself as the author of this cry, then we will be in history as a normal and responsible association. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U7	Thank you very much, Raivo Järvi! This was not a procedural question on the agenda and functioning of today's sitting, but we are moving on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 91 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 10. Let's clarify the agenda. The Centre Party Group is asking not to discuss the fifth item on today's agenda, which is the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group 165. The fifth item is therefore out of the order of business today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U8	We come to the first item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report the amendment to the Penal Code Bill 140, which is an amendment to the Criminal Law against Trafficking in Human Beings, as we call it. I would like to remind you that on 7 March, the second reading was interrupted with the aim of improving the wording and asking our partners for an opinion, which is a number of organisations and ministries. As a result, today you have before you the text of the second reading of the draft 140, on which five amendments have been tabled during this period. Let me brief you on the mid-term work. The Commission held a substantive discussion on 18 and 19 March. Tanel Kalmet, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, Margus Kurm, Chief Prosecutor of the Viru District Prosecutor's Office, Maila Pardla, Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Kristiina Luht, Adviser to the Department of Gender Equality of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Merje Jõgi, Investigator Ardo Ranne of the Prefecture of the North, Eda Mölder, Representative of the Ümartable of the Estonian Women's Association and Eha Reitelmann, Representative of the Association of Women's Lawyers, Jana Kitter and Krista Paal took part of the meeting on 18 March. As you can see, the number of members of the Committee on Legal Affairs was high. The aim was one: to listen to all the parties involved, their proposals and their justifications. I will briefly present the main proposals made by the partners on the 140 text of the draft law. Very many were concerned with the wording, the use of different expressions and their comprehension. Perhaps it cannot be said that the views of all partners were taken literally into account, but as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I dare say that their content has been taken into account in most cases. For example, the Committee on Legal Affairs had a discussion on how to formulate vulnerability as one of the factors that traffickers take advantage of. Vulnerability has been formulated differently in the European judicial area as well as in the international judicial area. In the final vote on the 19 March proposals, our committee maintained that a vulnerable position within the meaning of this section, i.e. human trafficking, is a situation where a person does not have an actual or acceptable opportunity not to comply with any of the obligations mentioned in subsection 1 of this section, i.e. in essence we are talking about forced labour, prostitution, begging, etc. The concept of vulnerability in our draft law has been formulated using the European Union Directive on trafficking in human beings. There is also the wording of the United Nations or Palermo Convention. Because of the Common Law system, the wording is a little broader in them; in our law, this direct, word for word description is foreign. If the explanatory memorandum to the Council of Europe's Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings defines vulnerability as physical, psychological, emotional, family, social and economic vulnerability, which may restrict the victim's chances, then we expect that, in the shorter wording of our draft, vulnerable status will cover all the same physical, mental and emotional conditions as well as those arising from the economic situation, which will affect his ability to actually understand the situation around him and to continue living in this situation. Vulnerability as a definition came from the composition of human trafficking as well as from the coercion of donation, as there too, vulnerability may be a factor in man's submission to such coercion and, for example, to give up an organ, cell or tissue against his or her real will. The amendment, which was the subject of a heated discussion, was the proposal to abolish the word 'prostitute' from the draft. That is also understandable, because it would mean labelling the victim, and in general, in the European area of justice, we do not have the term 'prostitute'. In order for the same victim, who has actually gone against his will rather than to label it, the Commission discussed a number of options. There were really many variants, some of them did not seem to be the most appropriate in Estonian, such as prostitution and the tendency to prostitution. At the vote on 19 March, we finally reached a consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs to use the term 'prostitution' in the draft, which we also propose to you. The second party was also discussed in the composition of the pimping, which, although the draft had already been at second reading on 7 March, was'sex buyer'. This'sex buyer' also gave us a heated debate because when the current Penal Code talks about buying sex, it is a narrower concept than buying prostitution, for example, because prostitution includes other forms of sexual passion than direct sex. We have therefore come to the Commission's understanding that if, on the one hand, there is a person involved in prostitution, then it makes sense that the other party with whom the pimp brings him together is a customer. So in the wording of the draft before you today, pimping is the organisation of a meeting between the person involved in prostitution and the client. Another important issue was the amendment of § 118 as a result of the change in the composition of the coercion. Paragraphs 2 and 3 were added to this paragraph, the content of which is to lay down the liability of the legal person for serious damage to health and the basis for the application of extended confiscation. The reason is very simple. There may also be cases in life where, for example, the same person who has already been forced to donate is disfellowshipped in hospital, so all illegal activities may have taken place under the cover of a legal person and may also be an important part of economic activity. That is why we added both responsibility for the legal person and extended confiscation. It is also important to note that in the draft section 'Pushing Donority', the wording of the second reading of 7 March 'distribute tissue or cell' is added to 'elund'. This makes perfect sense and extends this membership to all illegal donation. Now, when we come to the Commission's last, or Monday's, meeting decisions, the Commission members Marko Pomerants, Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere took part. The amendments were voted through and all adopted by consensus. The decision was to propose that the second reading be stopped, and if the second reading is completed today, i.e. on 20 March, the draft law will be referred to the third reading tomorrow, 21 March. That would be all for short. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U10	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U11	Thank you very much. Thank you for these fine nuances. I'm interested in a subject that was discussed in the report. This concerns, in particular, the purchase of sex and the future designation of a sex buyer as a customer. More specifically, I'm interested in criminalising the client. My question is: what tone was it discussed and how far did this debate come in the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U12	Thank you. Good questioner! Yes, we had this discussion in the Commission. The representatives of NGO Eluline raised this issue, especially in the case of minors purchasing prostitution services. We have come to realise that we need to move towards criminalising sex shopping, which is self-evident in the case of minors. This can't be normal, even in spite of what's happening around us. With regard to our minors and our future, there must be a clear signal in society that such behaviour is not tolerated. In this draft law, we did not yet have time to sign it in, because otherwise we would extend for weeks the entry into force of anti-trafficking provisions. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to come back to this issue. This requires the writing-in of the relevant section. Neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Legal Affairs Committee had it in its version, but the Committee on Legal Affairs realised that such a provision should create a legal space, and we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U13	Thank you. Good waitress, there's more questions registered for you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask about the first paragraph of § 1332 of the bill, where you claimed that the term 'prostitute' was inappropriate, that it was replaced by 'prostitution', such a long and dragging name. Did the Commission not consider replacing this long term term with a much shorter term, which means roughly the same and which has been in circulation in society for centuries? The second part of the question: can this approach not mean that in future traffic law, for example, no longer 'car driver' but 'car driving person'?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U15	Thank you, my good colleague. All the issues you were talking about were quite acutely raised in the Committee on Legal Affairs, including perhaps the use of historical expressions. However, we decided to remain in the European judicial area, and there is clear talk in Europe about prostitution. The use of other expressions is not practical, even if they are historic, and our penal code also makes it very clear what prostitution is. However, such labelling is not used for the very simple reason that the vast majority of these people do not come into this situation voluntarily. The driver's gonna take us to the wheel on his own. Those who are forced to engage in prostitution do not do so with great joy and satisfaction. There are certainly exceptions, I cannot deny it, but the vast majority of people, whether they are men or women, still find themselves in this situation of inadequacy, are forced by life. And for them to be easier to rehabilitate, bring them back to society, such small but important nuances often play a role. They should still be regarded as victims, because I would point out that, with this legislative amendment, all these sections, including support for trafficking in human beings, pimping and aiding prostitution, have been brought under the cover of crimes against individuals. Those people who are being traded here are victims, and tagging the victim makes it harder to get him out of this situation. Surely it is not practical if we say yes, often frankly, but not in the mind of a person's future, that he is a prostitute. That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs came to realise that let us both remain Europeans and use the term 'prostitution', but on the other hand, let us think that this person is, for the most part, forced to engage in prostitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! I understand the subject has given rise to a major discussion in places, but the buzzing in the hall is too big. The next question is Paul-Eerik Rummolt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U17	Thank you. Paragraph 133 refers to placing a person in a situation where he or she is forced to work under unusual conditions. If this paragraph is applied, how can this customary or unusual working conditions be defined?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U18	Thank you, good questioner! This is one of the issues that was quite acutely raised in the Committee on Legal Affairs in previous sittings. Our explanatory statement says that working under unusual conditions may involve working free of charge, marginally paid or otherwise enslaved conditions, such as keeping wages or taking away identity documents, forcing them to work and other exploitation situations. So there is certainly a need to look at the background system here, and there is still a great deal to be decided by the judges. But the unusual, as the word itself says, are the conditions that are not, in themselves, traditional or acceptable in this room. Yes, it may even be discussed here that some of the conditions that we have normal conditions may be unusual in Finland, for example. The wording of this law is, of course, the work of the explanatory memorandum and, on the other hand, the case law certainly has its influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U19	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U20	Thank you, Mr President. A good colleague from the Committee on Legal Affairs! With this draft, the Committee on Legal Affairs has indeed worked very hard, and you have also done a good job. However, during the procedure for this draft, there have somehow been such signals slipping into the media, as if the penalties were not severe enough and some qualifications might not be good. How do you rate it as a professional? As a former practitioner, are you satisfied with the result, what about these penalties and qualifying features?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U21	Thank you, my good colleague. I'll be honest with you. I'm happy. If we take it back a little bit, we go to this media issue, I dare say from this remote point of view that the original draft that reached us in the Commission was relatively general. He served a very important purpose emotionally, but in committee, you and other colleagues and practitioners, when discussing this issue, we realized that alongside emotions, it was important for practitioners to be able to suppress human trafficking. It is also understandable that the Penal Code is not a tool to solve problems in society that are much deeper than just the business of a criminal. This may be due to the globalisation of our Estonian state, may be due to the socio-economic background, everything else. The Penal Code is primarily aimed at deterring criminals who take advantage of the weaknesses of society. I think that the current text will certainly explain to those who implement this law in much more detail who is who and what actions are punishable when criminals have exploited something because of the ignorance of the person, the helplessness of the situation, the vulnerability of the person. Now, if you come back to this media issue again, maybe it's because you often don't listen to each other. When these first articles said that sexual exploitation of minors is only punishable by a fine, it is simply a matter of remembering the context of this moment. At the time, we put together different paragraphs and, for example, at the meeting where the media misconception came from, we had not really talked about these penalties. There was some other sentence and it was incriminating on it. Now, if we look at the same thing with regard to minors, I dare say that a human trafficker and a subjugator in the bad way could still think three times before he starts such a criminal business. Punishment for this is up to ten years of imprisonment, two years to ten years, no mention of a fine. It must be taken into account that there are other things in this section, not just prostitution. I take this opportunity to say from the remote that we have taken one very important step unnoticed. Paragraph 175, which is a symbiosis of several sections on exploitation of minors, has been amended in comparison with the existing Penal Code: in the case of erotic exploitation, the age limit is currently 14 years, we bring that limit to 18 years. There is also a serious discussion here, for example, for today's modeling programmers, whether it is erotic or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U22	Thank you. Marianne Mikko, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U23	Thank you very much. As you pointed out, you had many guests in the Committee on Legal Affairs who, with advice and force, contributed that this bill would be a good law. May I ask how many victims of human trafficking have been estimated in Estonia, who in the 21st century could be called sex slaves, and what could be the mother tongue of a sex slave?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U24	Thank you. We did not talk about this directly in the Commission. Last week I made a visit to the office of NGO Eluline, but even they can't answer that question. One thing is those who go through criminal proceedings. There are statistics about them, which depend very much on the number of police officers involved. You can count them on the fingers of one hand in the North Prefecture. They'll never know the real statistics, because this crime is hidden, and to detect it, the police will have to deal with all the information that comes in. The second thing is those people who want to be helped, and the third category is those people who don't even know that they can be helped. Although I say that customs, which is involved in this area, is still taking the initiative to find these people. In the case of Estonia as a whole, we are definitely talking about hundreds of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U25	No further questions. Thank you, Andres Anvelt! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The amendments have been examined and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 140. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U26	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the draft Act amending the Employment Contracts Act, subsection 178 of the Employment Contracts Act is deleted from subsections 5 to 10 and § 190 (4) is deleted. Technically, this is a slightly difficult draft, because in fact, the provisions of §§ 6, 8 and 9 of the Unemployment Insurance Act relating to the payment of unemployment insurance benefits upon termination of the contract of employment or service and upon termination of the contract of employment on the employee's initiative or termination of service on the initiative of a civil servant are amended. In a very simple sentence, perhaps, the regulation whereby voluntary or conventional leavers could start receiving unemployment benefit will be repealed. As we know, the above-mentioned provisions had to take effect from 1 January 2013, which means that these unemployment benefits are not currently in force, i.e. they are not available to those leaving voluntarily. And, as I said, the purpose of this draft is not to start paying these benefits in the future. The main reasons why this draft was presented are firstly to ensure the sustainability of the unemployment fund, i.e. the availability of resources for the implementation of the measures currently in force, both in the case of unemployment for compensation and in the case of labour market measures, and, of course, to maintain reserves for worse times. Secondly, this is certainly an important prerequisite for lowering the unemployment insurance rate. I am not going to dwell on this at this point, this debate has been held for a long time, and I am pleased to note that the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will meet in the near future, and this issue will certainly be discussed there. It has been said by the Prime Minister that this rate could be 3% next year. Through this, the current draft would have a positive impact on the wallet of all the people working, and we would not just focus on those people who simply decide to change their jobs and will be rewarded for it. It is not very difficult to calculate that the average family, where both adults work and receive a fairly average salary, would win about 160 euros. And if we do not pay compensation in the event of voluntary departure, we will also not encourage artificial withdrawal or exclusion from the labour market. We are already hearing about employers' concerns that there is not enough skilled labour, not only in smaller locations but also in larger centres. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law sets out a list of countries which do not pay such compensation. I am not going to go over this again, but I would like to remind you once again that our northern neighbours, Finland and Sweden, do not pay such compensation and even the much-spoken Greece, do not have such a benefit. I would also say that in social security there is a voluntary risk of unemployment that the state can cover, but it is not obliged to do so. Nor is there a contradiction with international obligations, i.e. the European Social Charter or the European Social Security Code, which Estonia has, as we know, ratified. I would also reject the fears that the opponents have spoken about. It is as if in practice there are many cases where employers simply force 'unwanted workers' to leave work of their own accord. I think that maybe there was more of a situation like this before 2009. I cannot, of course, rule out 100% that it does not exist at all, but certainly the amendments to the Employment Contracts Act that came into force on 1 June 2009 made it significantly more flexible for the employer to dismiss the employee. In this sense, there is no need to apply any form of pressure, as it is really not very costly for an employer to dismiss an employee if the employee is not fit for work or does not have enough work to do. Some of the agreement reached with the social partners on 23 April 2008. There has also been talk about this in the media and the author has been accused of this draft as if it were violating this agreement. I would like to draw attention to one point in this agreement, which states that the total level of payments will not exceed 1,5%. We know that for the time being, the total rate is 4.2%. That is why I would say that in 2008, we had all kinds of agreements and good ideas, as well as laws that, unfortunately, we have not been able to realise because of the economic crisis and we have had to reassess things. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 13 March. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, adviser Anni Tooma, Head of Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Merle Malvet, Head Specialist of the same department Marina Jefrosinina and Lawyer of the Estonian Employers' Confederation Marek Sepp took part in the discussion. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation was represented by Chairman Harri Tali. In the Commission, the Minister also informed us of the OECD's position that such compensation is not justified. The Minister supported the draft. We did not yet have the government's position, but it came last Thursday, as we know, and it is also supportive of the bill. During the debate, Harri Tali proposed to consider whether the implementation of this compensation could be postponed for a few years, but this proposal was not supported. There were also opinions that maybe leave the departure by agreement between the parties and stop paying on a voluntary basis, i.e. on a voluntary basis. However, the Commission decided to send the draft as it did to the first reading on 20 March, today and to conclude the first reading. Five members of the Commission voted in favour, with four against. The deadline for the amendments was set by consensus on Tuesday, 3 April and Kalle Jents was appointed as the referee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U28	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Eagle, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft act, one of which you are the author, states that the payment of unemployment insurance benefits in the event of voluntary unemployment results in a reduction in unemployment insurance funds and requires savings in the funds received in order to ensure the sustainability of the unemployment fund. The unemployment fund's reserve by the end of this year is known to amount to EUR 500 million, and with this draft you want to save EUR 32 million a year. Please explain this arithmetic about how the 32-million-dollar cost of the 500-million-dollar reserve threatens the sustainability of the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U30	Thank you. According to my information, the unemployment fund has a reserve of about 341 million, but I agree that this reserve is quite sufficient. But I'd like to give you an example here. When we paid unemployment insurance in 2011 in the order of EUR 36 million, I am not looking for an exact account right now, a year ago, in 2010, we paid 76 million with something. The total amount of these high-rate payments, which is currently EUR 2.8 million, is around EUR 120 million. If we now also take into account this possible voluntary leavers' compensation, there will be little left over on the road. This reserve is big and good, I agree with it, but remember, only a few years ago we were faced with the fact that the money just wasn't enough. I think that now we should be smarter, think that these reserves are and will remain, and we can calmly lower the rate of payment. We don't know, maybe worse times will come again. Today's projections are, yes, relatively optimistic. I also heard about one economic forecast, according to which the Estonian economy will grow by around 4% per year until 2016 and unemployment will be less than 5%. This is positive, but we do not know if this is going to happen and what will happen in 2017. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: After all, the unemployment fund also has other costs, including labour market measures, to which part of the money goes, operating costs. So I think it would be better if the reserves were large and perhaps in the future this rate of payment could be further reduced. But I wouldn't want to get out of my role here. What this rate is, above all, a proposal from the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and falls within the competence of the Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U31	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U32	Thank you. Good performer! I'm going to ask the same question a little differently. You said you were saving that money for worse times. Tell me, how bad do you think these times are gonna get? Even if unemployment increased by even more than 100% today, which is not the case, the unemployment fund would still be 'positive', we would produce more money. It seems to me that your position has been very overdoing. Is it not rather that you want to keep this money simply to show a better balance in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U33	Thank you. You remember that was quite recently when unemployment was more than 100% higher than today's levels. I think I figured that out. When we say that unemployment is now around 7%, it was only 14%, so it was twice as high. I gave an example that in this case we would more or less come out at the current rate, but we would no longer create reserves. Remember what optimists we were, I wasn't in the Riigikogu at the time, we spent a lot of money in 2008 and we made all the mistakes. And how suddenly, how quickly things changed! Now we have all acknowledged this, starting with the Prime Minister, other ministers and Members of Parliament. I was the mayor at the time, I was thinking about how the thunder would get better, and then it all went the other way. So the global economy is very unpredictable. We do not know what awaits us here in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U34	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Social Democrats in this Chamber seem very excited about this subject. But I found a quote from the then Minister of Social Affairs, Eiki Nestor, in this very Parliament's verbatim. This has been said a few years ago, but he talks about exactly the same subject, talking about unemployment insurance in case of voluntary departure. He says this: 'When we talk about insurance, the theory of insurance says that we cannot insure a risk that depends on the person himself. Maybe my comparison is inappropriate, but he's very accurate. For example, if you make sure your house doesn't burn down, no one will pay you insurance if you set your house on fire and tell me you've burned down your house. No one will ever offer you that kind of insurance. ' Yet the Social Democrats are now demanding exactly that kind of insurance. Can you explain the reason for this change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U36	Thank you. Now it is only the first reading, I am not sure at all today what the socialist spirit will be when it goes to vote. When we draw conclusions from the Commission's discussions, the Socialist Members of the Commission did not really support the draft. As far as this quote is concerned, it is a quote from a wise, experienced politician in very beautiful terms, I will sign it with two hands. I would hurt my colleague, Eiki Nestor, perhaps now, because I do not know what his position is today, maybe he will support this bill; it will only be seen after the vote. This quote dates back to 2001, and I have read it too. But in answer to this question, I would point out, for the sake of truth, that a year later the Minister of the Centre Party, Minister of Social Affairs Siiri Oviir, presented a draft which supplemented the draft law on unemployment insurance, which excluded the agreement of the parties. I mean, at first, when Eiki Nestor brought the draft to Parliament as a minister and the unemployment insurance law was passed, this voluntary departure scheme was not in the law, the justification in this Chamber was as quoted, but the agreement of the parties remained. At this point, perhaps the answer to the ideas expressed in the Commission too: therefore, this year has shown that the agreement of the parties must also be deleted. I actually see an encouraging word here for the left side of the hall, so I would expect support for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U37	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U38	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your examples, you went so well behind ten years and beyond. However, I am interested in the time of the negotiations on the current Employment Contracts Act three years ago. Those sections that you want to delete from the law now were those that were negotiated and where the trade unions achieved their goal. Can you tell me if there is anything left in this law that trade unions have achieved in the Employment Contracts Act, in this agreement, which still makes it easier and cheaper to lay off workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U39	Thank you. Unfortunately, as I said, I was not there to negotiate, although as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia I do remember that this was a very important law, and as a head of government, I followed these news back then. I can't say in that detail right now. In the Commission, Harri Tali said that at that time he felt a compromise was reached between the flexibility of this law and the security of the workers. That it was such a principled decision, or such an addition, that the weight would somehow be in place. I realized that it would rather be even today, I hope that I will not harm Harri Taliga with such a slightly fundamental question that it was decided in this way, even though it does not concern a large number of workers. In fact, I did not say one pretty good idea in my opinion, which Harri Tali also said that maybe you should take a little look at this part of the responsibility of the Employment Contracts Act when we talk about some coercive and illegal behaviour of the employer. Maybe it's a place where you can increase your employee's security. But this is, of course, a separate subject, one that cannot be dealt with in this draft. But now, once again, to this agreement. I spoke to the Justice Minister at the time, whose signature is down there, and I asked him to comment on it. He claims that the background story, of which the parties are now speaking differently, was indeed that if all things fit in by 1.5%, it could be like a compensation. But since real life has changed so much, today the payment rate is 4.2%. The other thing is that we do not really know how many people and how it will be used in practice. There have been two kinds of prognosis here. In our draft explanatory memorandum, the cost was 32 million; the unemployment fund also has another, later forecast of 20 million euros. Maybe it's more than that or maybe it's a third sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U40	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U41	Thank you. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the trade union representative proposed to postpone the abolition of these provisions from the law. I understand this in this way that the trade unions are basically in favour of abolishing these provisions, but with some argument I do not know, they would prefer to postpone it. Did you hear what those arguments were as to why it should be postponed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U42	Thank you. I would hurt the unions if I said so, and I didn't say so. This was probably a compromise proposal made by them for two reasons. Trade unions have stated that they support, in principle, a reduction in the payment rate in order not to undermine this presumption. Secondly, by making a small reverend towards the state and given the impact on the balance of the state budget, the compromise they made was that it would be possible to postpone the payment of compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U43	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U44	I still wonder how the Committee on Legal Affairs came up with this draft. I therefore ask what the purpose of unemployment insurance is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U45	Thank you. Let's keep going. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U46	The purpose of unemployment insurance? Unemployment insurance is a compulsory insurance and the law provides for ways to insure the unemployed of working people. I said it kind of really... I didn't quite understand the point of the question. Do you want to test me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U47	Thank you. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the aim is to reduce differences in labour demand and supply. As I understand it, it is the opinion of the initiators and authors of the draft that if a person receives 40% of his salary within a period of time, he will not be bothering to look for a job. In the case of a member of the Riigikogu who receives four Estonian average salaries, this may indeed be the case. But if you were to receive one of Estonia's average salaries and then receive 40% compensation after leaving the job, would you also think that you would not be very motivated to look for a new job? And the same question goes the other way: do the drafters think that people will be more effective in finding a job if they do not have any financial support to survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U48	Thank you. It's all about people's income. I've been talking to a lot of people. Consider, for example, a family with children trained, even in a family of people my age, where one of the spouses earns very well, while the other half takes some time off. I'm gonna urinate a little bit, but I'm sure there are options. Of course, this is not such an absolute argument, but, as I said in the report, we should still encourage people to return to the labour market quickly and find a new job. It may not be necessary to change jobs so lightly, but to really change jobs if it is very well-founded if the new job is better and with better working conditions. I'm sorry, I forgot the other half of the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U49	It was a philosophical rewording of the question, but it can be asked again if necessary. We're moving on right now. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U50	Thank you. First of all, a little reminder. I myself stopped working in the private sector in 2009, just about the time this bill was discussed here. I was a little excited too, I knew I'd volunteer to go away, and I thought, "Oh, how nice, the state or the unemployment fund is paying me some more money. I would have taken that money, but I don't think it's right. I believe that this measure is rather labour market tourism, which must be paid for by the unemployment fund. But now the question. Have I misunderstood something, nobody is particularly concerned with this issue, but has the government not promised to reduce unemployment contributions from 4.2% to 3% in connection with this legislative amendment? And doesn't that mean that every person, every working person in Estonia, gets an average of 200 euros more per year? Now, if this is all of a sudden true, what do you think is more interesting to people, whether it's voluntary departure compensation or 200 euros more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U51	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U52	Thank you, dear colleague. The fellow group obviously did not listen very carefully to my presentation. I really touched on this subject in my presentation. According to my calculations, this amount is between EUR 160 and EUR 170, and that is what I said. It really depends on what kind of pay we take it, but the order of magnitude remains the same. So really, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U53	Thank you. I would, of course, be happy to ask some of those people who have dealt with this law in several parts of Parliament and remember in detail how these matters have been dealt with here. But I ask you then: why has it now become so that all such social issues, most of the work topics, go immediately to the Committee on Legal Affairs and not to the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been put into practice for them? And also: why have all the ministers of the Reform Party supported this proposal in the past, and why has there been such a cardinal change now? Where's that change of position coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U54	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U55	Thank you. I didn't quite understand the question of a change of position. Just as you have initiated a number of legislative proposals, it is also my right and the right of colleagues from other political groups. Why the Committee on Legal Affairs? As I said at the beginning of my report, these legislative changes here are quite difficult to understand or monitor in terms of technical terms. I would say that it is really very difficult for a non-lawist to make these changes, perhaps for one reason. However, I did not understand how our ministers did not support the draft. As I said, our ministers and the government support this draft. Maybe I didn't get you right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U56	There has been talk about how this change would be a prerequisite for lowering the tax rate and how much more money will then be left to anyone. But let's take, for example, the person who is proposed to leave the job with the agreement of the parties during the next year, he agrees, the employer also pays him a month's allowance and then he becomes unemployed. How much does the average wage recipient lose every month, the person who no longer has that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U57	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U58	Thank you. If the employee leaves with the agreement of the parties, he or she must make an agreement with the employer that satisfies him or her both financially and otherwise. And if this compensation, the one-month wage compensation, as you have pointed out, is not satisfactory, then the employee probably should not leave or the employer should indeed lay off if that is possible. If the staff member is made redundant, he or she will first receive the redundancy allowance from the unemployment fund for one or two months, according to his or her seniority, or if the agreement of the parties does not satisfy the leaver, there is no point in concluding an agreement between the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U59	Thank you. The rapporteur from the Commission. I'm interested in the origins of this bill. I see that Marko Pomerants has signed as chairman of the committee. However, you have said in several replies that this draft is necessary for the government, that once this draft is adopted, the government will be able to go back to the table with employers and employees and allow the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. Why did this draft not be initiated by the government, which has negotiated on these points, who actually has to go and face the contractors as well and say that such a draft has received their support? Why didn't the government want to launch such a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U60	Thank you. As I said earlier, my fellow Member, you have initiated very many drafts and we, on the other side of this Chamber, also want to justify the trust of our constituents, we also have the legal right to initiate drafts. I can't say the government didn't want to. Yes, the way in which this bill came about has been asked, and it has also been pursued in previous questions. I think that, just as you obviously are discussing very many problems in the group that have not yet turned into a draft, we have also discussed which ideas have moved and on which the draft should be launched. And at some point, along with the representative of the coalition partner IRL Marko Pomerants, we did indeed come to the drafting. Of course, we had discussed this, it didn't happen that either I or Marko woke up this morning and we thought we'd start writing a bill. All things are still born in discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U61	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U62	Dear waitress, During your long working life, you have repeatedly been in the role of both employer and employee, both during the current and previous formations. How much has your practice been faced with the mutual desire to end work relationships in such a way that it has not been quite voluntary, but was the employer's initiative? What do you think would be the percentage of such coercive volunteering today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U63	Thank you. Yes, I have been an employer in a private company during the Republic of Estonia for 16 years, and I have been a local government manager for four years. What do I say? I admit quite honestly from this remote unit: if you take the time of the local government leader, the Civil Service Act provides for particularly high benefits, unlike the Employment Contracts Act, and a number of employees who had already reached higher age and who could actually have started looking for their guilty behaviour, they could not have done their job, eventually got laid off and received very good benefits. On the basis of my company, which I ran before I became the head of the local government, I say that I really don't remember such a case, and I don't know that my colleagues would have had it very much either. Although, let's be honest, there's a bunch of workers who don't really do their job, don't bother or don't want to do it. We rely all the time on the fact that workers are 100% good and employers are evil. In fact, some of the contractors have to look in the mirror, and we don't have to reward them if they don't want to, don't bother, can't do their job. They must be responsible for this and maybe work better in a new job. I don't really know a lot of examples, and now I don't know much. I have said that if an employer needs to pay compensation for one month in the event of layoffs and then the unemployment fund already pays, it is really easier to lay off the employee than to start twisting his hand somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U64	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! One of the reasons why the unemployment insurance contribution was raised to 4,2% was the assumption that compensation would be paid to those who ceased their employment or employment relationship on their own initiative or in agreement with the parties. On the basis of your report, they are now seeking to withdraw this agreement. What is the proportion of this 4.2% compensation to be paid under the agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U66	In total, about 190 million of these payments are received from employers and employees according to today's rates. I don't have a computer here. You can calculate a percentage for that. As has been said, the cost of this measure is estimated to be EUR 20 or EUR 30 million. But here it must be emphasised, as has been confirmed by the specialists of the Ministry of Social Affairs, that there is no practice. We can predict from past years' practice that so much unemployment is forced and so much goes on the cost side, but there may also be some third amount, maybe 40 million, but maybe less than 20 million. So this is a little bit of speculation. As regards the reduction of the rate of payment, this debate has lasted for a long time, it has been the wish of all other parties, both trade unions and the Confederation of Employers, it is in the interests of all workers and employers. I think that all the steps we are taking in this direction are still positive and concern a much greater number of people than those who are going to receive this new compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U67	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Justice Kristen Michal has said in the media that the right side does not mean recklessness. In 2008, when the social partners saw the need to make the labour market more flexible and agreed on certain measures, they also agreed to ensure security in order to strike a balance. To date, all these security arrangements have expired. On the basis of what the Minister of Justice said, too, I ask: do the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs in the right parties intend to initiate in the near future also drafts that would balance these flexicurity-enhancing and non-security-enhancing matters, i.e. drafts that would increase the security of the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U69	Thank you. I would not speculate on the drafts that we will launch in the future. After all, all good proposals, initiatives and also drafts are always welcome. However, I would argue that the abolition of this provision will significantly reduce the safety of workers. First of all, we are still talking about a very small part of the workforce. Secondly, we are talking about workers who make their decision voluntarily. Forced unemployment is a whole different matter. He's good, he's working, but the company's doing bad, and he's losing his job, and he hasn't counted on it. Here, we really have to put on the shoulder to make the employee feel safe. But if there is a voluntary decision, a voluntary departure, why do we reward people who can handle themselves, i.e. they have a job, they have a salary, which, yes, is perhaps not great. However, I think it has a small role to play in ensuring a sense of security or balance; this effect is not very great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U70	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U71	Thank you. Dear waitress, In answer to my question, you spoke again about the impact of compensation on the high-wage earners. Mr Randpere also spoke about how he did not need this compensation. Your husband may really take some time off and raise children, but unfortunately, the fact is that most Estonian mothers and fathers cannot afford the privileges of Mrs Jents. The question, which was not philosophical at all, is this: do you think that people who have to worry about how to keep their family alive during their job search are more effective or less effective jobseekers? Do the jobs thus found correspond to the will of these people and are also the best in terms of our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U72	Thank you. It's probably a little late for me to get kids, but thank you, I'll take that as a compliment for my age. I would emphasise once again: we are talking about voluntary termination of employment, not about people who are unemployed, who are looking for a job and who we seem to be taking something away from. This is indeed a very difficult question as to how much the salary should be, not that the person is rich, well-off or wealthy, but that salary number should start from where. I have just stressed that we are talking about people who have jobs and who make decisions voluntarily, not those who are looking for jobs who have not found jobs, who are unemployed. We're talking about voluntary departure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U73	Thank you. As President, as regards the previous question, I would like to make it clear that if you ask the floor and you have one minute to ask the question, that does not mean that two, three or four questions must be asked within this minute. A more concentrated answer can be given to one question. We have developed such a practice that as many questions as possible will be asked during this minute. I am simply reminding you of the law on home and working procedures: one question at a time. It's very good that you could ask again. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U74	Thank you. I totally agree with that. I actually asked the same question in two different ways so that the respondent could understand it as easily as possible. Maybe asking my question wasn't the most successful one the first time. I'm sorry about that!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U75	Thanks for that line. I did not specifically try to stab you, but to remind all my fellow Members of our law on home and working procedures. But thank you very much and let's go! Please, Heljo Pikhof, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I've been involved in writing my own labour laws years ago, and I'm totally embarrassed to hear your report here today. You don't give a shit about labour laws. If we listen to what you say about redundancy, what you say about your own will and the parties' agreement to leave, you're gonna be fucked up like munchies and cabbages. What you're saying is, it's like an employee is a stronger party in an employment relationship and says that if I leave on my own, I want to get five months' money, for example. In fact, this voluntary departure is a forced departure. I want to ask why government departments don't like to keep their word. Maybe you'll go over the arrangements that employers and employees made between each other, then you'll find out more about what was agreed upon.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U77	Thank you. I don't quite understand the first part of the question or your arguments. I understand perfectly what it means to leave the job at will, to leave the job with the agreement of the parties and to dismiss the employee on the initiative of the employer, one of the options of which is redundancy. But okay, let that be your own opinion. As I said before, it was assumed in this agreement that both these forced unemployment benefits and this new measure would amount to 1.5%. It was April 2008, when unemployment was, I dare say, less than 5%, about that or even lower. Evidently, these expectations and hopes were based on this, and agreements were made in that knowledge. I'm not going to talk about everything that's happened again, there's been some talk about it here today. It has not been possible to comply with this agreement. As I said before, a number of good agreements and initiatives that were concluded in 2007 and 2008 and were carried out in a completely different sphere, I am not thinking about labour legislation now, unfortunately, have had to be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U78	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U79	Thank you. I'll ask for a verbatim and in the interest of the public. Kadri Samson's question may have given the impression that this bill had been prepared somehow over the head of the government or against the Government's will, or so on. Please specify whether there is a government assessment of this draft, as is appropriate for the drafts being prepared in the Riigikogu. Has this assessment been obtained, and what is it like?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U80	Thank you. As I said before, the government supports the bill, it was on Thursday, the meeting of the government on 15 March. We got that information later. When a Commission meeting took place, there was no official government position yet, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs expressed their support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U81	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I would remind you that unemployment insurance is still 4.2%, 3% would be enough to legitimise the point we are talking about. So the place of thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U83	Thank you. I know it's 4.2% right now, and that's what I was talking about in my report. I also said that in 2013, it is planned to be reduced to 3%, but it is not up to me or, by law, any of us in this Chamber. Perhaps this is also a question of the future of whether deciding on this rate could come to Parliament, for the time being it is the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U84	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! During the debate, there was a quote that Eiki Nestor once said years ago. It was about securing your home and going away on your own. Have there been any changes in time and space in the intervening years that this quote is no longer valid today, or is it still topical?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U86	Thank you. Indeed, I have always admired the highly experienced politician Eiki Nestor, him as a very good speaker and his very good ability to express himself. It is difficult to say better when it is said to justify your own draft. But here is a very good classic example of how understandings can change, depending on whether it is a responsibility for governance, if it is conditionally responsible for this big wallet, or if it is in opposition, and it is just to shoot at the coalition's drafts, to give the impression that they are bad, unsafe, unprincipled, whatever. This would be a classic example of political textbooks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U87	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! A purely mathematical question. The explanatory memorandum to the draft prepared by you and Marko Pomerants states that 32 million savings will be made. The unemployment fund's opinion speaks of 20 million. So what's the right amount? We are saying that one of the important objectives of the law is to save unemployment insurance money? Which is more correct, and which calculations were the basis for the explanatory memorandum by the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U89	Thank you. I briefly touched on the fact that both forecasts came from the unemployment fund. We asked the Social Ministry officials for these figures. I have also asked afterwards why we received such a forecast, to be honest, I read for the first time in the paper that the second estimate is 20 million. This is justified by the fact that one is based on the Spring Summer Forecast of the Ministry of Finance for the whole economy. According to this, the unemployment fund has done one analysis. But there is also another basis, some autumn forecast, which is in a sense more optimistic, and finally there has been an opinion, as I said before, that there is no practice. It's a little bit of an apple prediction. So let's talk about size classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U90	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U91	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! Several questions raised by members of the Reform Party concern the dynamics of change of perception. So is mine. In 2009, the Reform Party and the IRL supported the understanding that it is justified to pay unemployment insurance benefits in the event of voluntary unemployment. Today, you've turned those arguments on your head. Why, then, such a change of heart in the principled viewpoints of the two great parties in the right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U92	Thank you. I have already answered this question on a number of occasions in principle. I repeat, then, that unemployment was very low at the time, and the other party demanded it, certainly not the initiative of the Reform Party or the IRL at the time to take on voluntary departure compensation. You know, politics is always the art of compromise. I remember from then on that was a signal to the public, that was one of the points of compromise where the agreements were finally concluded. I repeat that the agreement was concluded in April 2008, I have examined it ex post, the law came into force on 1 July 2009. The situation had changed a lot this year, and I am not going to go over it again. It was just that we were brought back to earth. Unfortunately, yes, we are not so rich, and if countries far richer than us do not pay such compensation, then we should not pay such compensation either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U93	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U94	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You mentioned in your answers that the Centre Party has also tried to bring some draft laws into the hall. And it has literally happened that the Centre Party has submitted a draft and has signed this bill. You said you wanted to justify the trust of your constituents. Why did this bill come from the Committee on Legal Affairs, why didn't the IRL and Reform Party initiate it? Why are you hiding?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U95	Thank you. I don't understand, I haven't been hiding anywhere, even though I read somewhere in Delfi that my esteemed colleague, Eiki Nestor, has even called us a 'tank' tank. I don't know, I think a member of the Riigikogu has the legislative right to submit drafts. Indeed, in theory, the Group of the IRL and Reform Party could have submitted a draft together, the Committee on Social Affairs could also have, and the Government could have. But the drafts still come from different sources, somehow in the course of the work. Just like you do work, you hold meetings, you discuss problems, and then you finally come up with a bill. You could always ask why you're asking why they didn't. So here I really can't say anything but that is our legislative right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U96	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U97	Thank you. My second question relates to the position of the government. It is usually the case that the draft is also assessed by the Government of the Republic. You said that there is no official position at all, there is some kind of support or no support. In the interests of clarity and verbatim, I ask: what did the Government of the Republic say about this bill, and what did the Minister of Social Affairs say?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U98	I'm going to go over what I actually said. At the meeting, this draft was supported by the Minister for Social Affairs, the Government held two days later, on Thursday 15 March and the Government supported it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U99	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Let me remind you that only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul as representative of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A month ago, Mr Marko Pomerants, one of the draft authors stated that this bill is such an uncomfortable draft that it would not want to be dealt with immediately and be in the Chamber during this debate, rather to be sick or hidden in the bathroom. He can be understood because this bill breaks promises made earlier. This amendment proves that the road roller, which is driving over both workers and opposition, is starting to reach the edge of the abyss itself. I'm really asking you, what are you afraid of? Recently, you do not dare to bring any drafts related to the subject of work, to the Committee on Social Affairs, a committee which has been set up for this purpose and which is behind it by the Ministry. What is it, after all, is the sound of a match? This can only be due to the hope that such drafts can be dullly pushed through in the 'own committee'. Marko Pomerants will certainly remember 2004 when he brought the Employment Contracts Act here to the Riigikogu and this was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. The minister himself was often present. But indeed, this bill was of quite poor quality, so it had to be rewritten. At last, however, we made it so good that it could also be appreciated by the 'worker's side', but it was finally put under a raft. And in the previous Riigikogu, this bill was immediately rejected by the Legal Affairs Committee. We didn't quite understand who was carrying it from the ministers. At first Mrs Maripuu did so, but then it was found that perhaps Rein Lang rolls as more efficiently as she does demagoguery. If you remember, we also had a night sitting in connection with the draft law on employment contracts under the leadership of the Central Party Group. We were really opposed to this, and this law made it faster and cheaper to get rid of a working person, reduced social security, reduced dismissal protection considerably, and made illegal dismissal very attractive and cheap, lost evening hours and double pay on Sundays, etc. I'm sure you remember. You can now be e-mailed, texted, sick or on holiday, etc. At the time, we were a little surprised that the trade unions criticised relatively little of the draft and agreed with little in our opinion. But the little that was accepted was very important. On the upside, there was an amendment formulated by the Ministry of Maret Maripuu in the document 'Main messages and benefits of the Employment Contract Act'. It was very clear that unemployment insurance would also be provided by a person who would leave work of his own accord. The amount of the benefit is 40% of the average salary and the entitlement to the benefit arises when at least four years' contributions to the unemployment insurance fund have been made for the staff member during the last five years. Yeah, well, it's been postponed once. In 2009, when it was postponed, Rein Lang said that it would just be pushed to 2013; we just have to wait a little bit. And then the Minister of Social Affairs, Pevkur, said that we would wait a little while, by 2013, the tax base has stabilised and then we will do it. I would like to remind you so much of history that in 2008 Maret Maripuu said that it was precisely by this point that the opt-out would become 40% of the average wage that the Employment Contracts Act was made very attractive. That people want us to work, and this point of this bill guarantees flexicurity. So now we want to cancel this point. I really ask: where is the gentlemen's agreement? How can we even trust those men and women who were then in the Riigikogu and who are still in the Riigikogu and who are doing it with their own hands?! It's, I repeat, breaking the deal, it's cheating on working people. The explanatory memorandum to the bill is rather feeble. Once upon a time, it was precisely because, as we all know, in some cases, the employer may force the employee to leave using a "soft" pressure tool that was considered to be important for voluntary compensation. However, it is now stated in the explanatory memorandum that the argument referred to is incomplete and there is no reason to assume that most of those leaving the job will leave the office if they so wish or if the parties agree to do so, as a result of the coercion. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip also believes that, even if such injustice exists, it should not be paid for with money. Well, I don't know what else? Secondly, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that this bill ensures the sustainability of the unemployment fund and the availability of money. We had a long story today that there were very large sums of money in the unemployment fund, about 350 million. That would be enough, even if we had a 100% or even more increase in unemployment now, the unemployment fund would still be in surplus. Otherwise, the government would not have 'nationalised' this money. At the same time, it is the money collected by employers and employees themselves, and I do not think it should be carried out by a single member of the Riigikogu. This fund is designed for a situation where the unemployed must be insured. The Centre Party Group is certainly allowed compensation for workers against cuts. We strongly condemn the government's breaking of words and propose that this draft be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U101	Thank you. Marko Pomerants will be able to respond within two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U102	Thank you. I won't hold your time for that. I simply assure you that, during the procedure for the drafts, I will always be in the hall and I will only use the bathroom for special purposes, not for hiding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U103	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Tankists, tractorists, zootechnics, parish elders, mayors, Komsomoli- and party characters out of here from the last time! First of all, I would like to inform you that the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading. There are two reasons. The first is that the draft should be discussed with the social partners. And when the solutions found there are brought to our table, we are always willing to accept them. However, secondly, because unemployment insurance, as such, loses its point, the idea is to help a person who does not have a job and who is looking for a job. It must help him to cope so that he can learn a new profession, for example. Well, let's say, good manager, I certainly can't do it in five minutes, so I'm gonna be eight minutes away.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U105	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U106	There are two things I would like to talk about: rights and money. A colleague here asked a very good question: what has happened here in ten years? Eiki Nestor once said one thing here, today says the opposite! Two big things have happened. First, the Employment Contracts Act was amended and made more flexible for employers. Under this agreement, some things had to become safer for workers. This is the first and most important and the biggest change. Another thing in which I mentioned the members of the Riigikogu with every possible background seems almost impossible is the fact that an agreement was made. There was no such agreement when unemployment insurance was created. I can tell you that when it was concluded, all the different options were discussed. There are even countries where the right to unemployment benefit is also for people who, in simple Estonian language, get rid of their work for a misbehave. It's just that since they've paid in, they're entitled to the money. We did not enter into such an agreement when creating this insurance, as all parties felt that it would not be right under the conditions of Estonia and in this case would not be prepared to pay. The second principle on which the law was based was that the parties to the agreement must have the right to compensation. Unfortunately, before the first people started receiving compensation, the next government changed this section and deprived them of that right. There was also a long dispute over the treatment of persons who themselves leave work, whether they should be entitled to compensation or not. There was no such agreement at the time because it was not wanted by any of the social partners. Hence the statements and explanation of the Minister who defended this draft, because he was based on the knowledge that the agreements were in force. It was also very correct to note here that have the thoughts of the two right-wing parties changed now? After all, in 2008 they entered into this kind of agreement. That's right! Indeed, at the time the agreement was concluded, the coalition found that the agreements had to be honoured. Right now, there's a coalition that doesn't think it's necessary to comply with the agreements. The first point of this agreement, which was annulled, was the same rate of payment of 1,5%. This clause was written in order that, if the new benefits raise the unemployment insurance rate, it should not exceed 1,5%. This point was canceled by the government itself. It annulled the fact that we do not have any higher benefits, as agreed, we do not have the opportunity for the parties to agree to receive unemployment benefit and not for those who choose to leave. But the payment rate has been 4.2% for several years. Well, it's not 1.5%! Who's ruined it? At that time, a consensus was finally reached between the social partners in deciding on this rate of payment. I think it's really ugly to start playing with that number. Now for voluntary departure. I have been pleased to hear, honourable members of the Riigikogu, that your fate has been such that you have not had to sign up for the unemployment fund as a job seeker, because this is the total unprofessionalism you are showing here. It is not possible to go on a monthly salary of EUR 1000 and simply register at the unemployment fund and hope that you will now receive compensation. Such a thing is simply not possible! A person must be an active job seeker in order to be dealt with in the first place in order to receive the same benefits as he or she is entitled to because of his or her redundancy. It's not like just someone has decided to take some time off for some kind of money. There's no such thing in real life. Ten years have shown that in actual working life people are forced to leave on their own initiative, and so it was agreed in 2008 that volunteers must also receive compensation in Estonia. This agreement needs to be fulfilled, for pay attention! These people have already paid their money for it. This is the compensation for which they have paid on the basis of a higher rate of payment. A little bit of money. In 2008, an agreement was concluded, which provided for a higher level of compensation at the beginning of the possibility of receiving a higher level of compensation, i.e. 70% of the salary and, later on, a lower proportion by agreement between the parties and by their own request. Unemployment insurance would have been balanced in terms of income and expenses, even if the payment rate had been 4.2%, the same as today. That's 120,000 people at unemployment. All these years of crisis would have been able to guarantee the security agreed at the 4.2%. To this money, the government found another goal, and this money is now working in the wrong place. It has not been used for unemployment insurance. Speaking here, by lowering the payment rate, somebody wins 200 euros a year, gold friends, the person who quits the job with the agreement of the parties, loses 400 euros a month! One wins EUR 200 per year and the other loses EUR 400 per month. I have a proposal that the Commission seriously thinks when it puts forward drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U107	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Margus Tsahkna Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U108	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on voluntary leave-of-work compensation has been very attentive to the public for the last few months and rather often based on emotional positions rather than a meaningful autopsy. One of the main arguments against this legislative amendment has been that something has ever been agreed and that this promise must be fulfilled, even if it is beyond our country's control. There have been various calculations, but the order of magnitude is more or less clear for everyone: it would cost approximately EUR 32 million per year to provide this specific compensation. The exact amount cannot be calculated because such a measure has never existed in the Republic of Estonia before and we do not know how the labour market, the social partners, could react to this measure. There are also various reasons why this measure would be used. One argument is that perhaps this measure will be misused. So, in fact, in order to get rid of their labour costs, employers, instead of being laid off, start agreeing to receive compensation, which is coercive. This is indeed not the purpose of this measure. The IRL drew attention to the fact that this measure may not be a viable measure for our country, even when it was agreed or actually included in the law. We have overcome the very difficult economic situation and the very high level of unemployment without this measure. I would like to stress once again that this measure, the voluntary departure compensation measure, is not currently in force in the Republic of Estonia. This is provided for by law from 1 January next year. So nobody gets anything taken away. I would also like to remind you in particular what was agreed upon. The Delegation Agreement, concluded on 23 April 2008, contained very specific clauses relating to the new Employment Contracts Act: as a result of restructuring, unemployment insurance does not increase by more than 1.5% to the employer and employee in total; the state does not provide additional public funding. It was also agreed that an analysis of the impact of extending the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and the amount of benefit would be carried out three years after the restructuring took effect. All this concerned the entry into force of the new Employment Contracts Act and its additional points. This agreement has been signed by all social partners and government representatives. So you can remember that, which is exactly what was agreed. However, the IRL has been discussing this particular issue and we have a proposal for the Committee on Legal Affairs to carry out a substantive analysis before the second reading, concerning the circle of people who are most vulnerable on the labour market. For example, we are talking about people who are raising children up to three years of age alone at home or who have more than three children in the family, i.e. families with many children and single parents, as well as those whose family is a person with deep or severe disabilities who must be cared for. The circle of these persons should be specifically fixed, analysed the burden that a change would impose on the unemployment fund and consider whether it is possible to introduce voluntary severance payments for these persons as from 1 January 2013. This is a step that would, in particular, ensure that the main objective of the measure, which is stated in the letter, is met in the case of the most vulnerable persons. I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will do this and that we will all discuss it in substance, based on the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance. Finally, I will also state the position of the IRL Group concerning the sense of justice in society and compensation for the voluntary departure of members of the Riigikogu. The position of the IRL Group is that we also need to review our voluntary severance benefits Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U109	Thank you. Please, Mr Randpere, representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U110	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think at first that I was going to take the floor here today, but there were some things that were left to scratch my heart during the previous discussion. Firstly, one question that the opposition representatives constantly raise about the activities of the Committee on Legal Affairs: who initiated, why started, started, etc. The same was said about the amendment of the collective agreement law: who did it, whose initiative and who wrote it. I would remind you that the amendment to the collective agreement law we made was because it was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. We amend the Employment Contract Act because it is simply a luxurious measure that overwhelms the Estonian state and does not really have any practical meaning. And as the previous speaker has already said: this is not some measure currently in force that we are taking away from someone. The same question was asked what the Committee on Legal Affairs would do next. I think it's family law next. We are going to change the family law on the care of disabled people, and questions have arisen as to whether it is rational, whether it is suddenly too complicated, too bureaucratic. I mean, the whole system that's in place right now. However, the question has been raised whether the previous agreements mean nothing. The same agreed people come and change them?! I still don't think it's the same people. I do not know how many members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for example, were in the previous composition. But I have had such hesitation that one part of your problem, who very much protests against these changes, is that you have been in the Riigikogu for too long. People who have been sitting in the Riigikogu for 20 years may have lost contact with reality. I come from real life, I come from real business... [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. I come from business, and I actually have the same question that has arisen here. Some say with absolute certainty that voluntary departure is never voluntary; it is always forced; others cast a shadow of doubt on it. In so many cases, I have agreed with people that they will resign with the agreement of the parties. If it's been my initiative, I've always agreed with people that I pay them three months' wages, and I assume the same logic applies everywhere else. I see no reason why people working in Estonia should accept forced departure under the sign of voluntary departure. They don't need to do this. There has also been talk about the argument that, as unemployment insurance is currently high, this money could cover voluntary severance payments. In fact, the same logic applies here, which a colleague of the Riigikogu, quoted above, spoke about burning the house ten years ago. He said if you still burn the house, then the insurance won't make it up to you. Should the logic be that when insurance premiums grow, you get paid when you burn down your house? It's not like that! One last thought: this whole discussion is still dragging in today, that you, in particular the opposition representatives, are forgetting two categories of people. Firstly, those who work and, secondly, those who are really forced to work. You only want to protect people who have volunteered and made their own choice. I don't think we have much to protect those who burn down their own house. We will protect those who are really in trouble, who have somehow been forced to quit their jobs, as well as those who are working, and thanks to this decision, as has been said, will receive more than 200 euros a year in the middle. I think it is more important for the Estonian working people than for us to support luxurious job tourism measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U111	Thank you very much. That concludes the negotiations. Two proposals have been submitted to the Board of the Riigikogu. The first is from the Estonian Centre Party Group, which proposes to reject the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act 180 after the first reading. The second is the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal and it reads: 'We propose to reject the draft 180 SE at first reading. ' We must vote through these proposals. I shall treat them as one proposal, which we shall vote on at a time. Let's start preparing the voting procedure. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the proposal of the Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to reject bill 180 after the first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 38 votes in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of 180 amendments at 4 p.m. on 3 April. First reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U112	The next item is the first reading of § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I would like to introduce you to the draft Act on Supplementation to Social Welfare Act § 222, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. This is the third attempt by the Social Democratic Party Group to ensure that universal child support reaches the children of the families who need it most, also to children living in deep poverty. Namely, we initiated a similar draft in the previous Riigikogu in 2009, in this composition in the autumn of 2011 and, as you can see, I am again before you with it today. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice's review of children's ombudsman's duties clearly states: 'Alleviation of child poverty should be a matter of national importance. " Child poverty is a major problem and a threat to the sustainability of society, which must not be delayed in the future. Since children themselves have little opportunity to improve their situation, it is the duty of the state to support parents in raising their children. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child requires the same. Not only to alleviate child poverty, action must be taken as quickly as possible to reduce the damage that the last and one year-on-year developmental gap is causing to a growing child and a youngster. Jüri Kõre, the assistant mayor of Tartu, who has worked for a long time as associate professor of social policy at the University of Tartu, wrote last week in Tartu Postimees: 'In a statistical sense, poverty has already been analysed quite exhaustively in Estonia over the last 15 years. However, this word creates a problem in many ordinary citizens and a perceived state of excitement in at least 90 percent of politicians. /... / This is an issue that affects society throughout. " It is sad to say that only Poles, Lithuanians, and Latvians are worse than us in reducing child poverty. Honourable guests! The draft Social Democrats have been drawn up with the aim of keeping child benefit and income support under the State Family Benefits Act separate, in other words, to ensure that child support reaches every family. On two occasions, the government departments have not taken our bill seriously. I hope that more than 63000 children who are currently living in absolute poverty or at risk of poverty will also make governments think, and this time our amendment will be taken very seriously. Even the Prime Minister has admitted in the Riigikogu Question Time that 61 euros per month cannot be met. The same has been recognised by both the Child Welfare Association and other organisations that defend children's rights, as well as local authorities. A little history, the government has put its hands on the Socialist amendment on all three occasions, on the pretext of once, once for another reason. It has been argued that the Socialist amendment deprives the mother and father of the appetite to look for work and do the work. This is even in a situation where we had more than 100,000 unemployed than in 2009. It has also been argued that child benefit is included in the family income for the purpose of determining income support, in line with the general logic of income support. From the government's point of view, we can read that if child benefit were paid in addition to income support, this could result in families with children being treated differently when determining income support, for example, as families of pensioners or families of disabled persons. However, neither of the Government's arguments can be considered correct. In the Republic of Estonia, we have another law, and it is the State Family Benefits Act, which aims to provide families with children with partial reimbursement of the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Until 2005, the child benefit paid under the State Family Benefits Act was not taken into account when determining income support, but has since been considered to be a 'work income' for the low-income earners, not the high-wage earners. The change at the time resulted in an increase of the subsistence limit from 500 kroons to 750 kroons. One of the reasons was the desire to stimulate people to look for work and to act actively so that work would be more beneficial than living with a grant. A few years ago, in addition, the benefits for families with many children were abolished, and that, of course, is for those in desperate need of help to cope. Thus, state family benefits in the Republic of Estonia are only for those who can handle themselves. Let the weakest wipe their mouths clean. Now we are in a completely different situation. Our limit of living is far too low to survive in times and times. It also fails to meet the requirements of the European Social Charter. The most recent data from Statistics Estonia account for the minimum subsistence rate of a single-member household, i.e. the limit of absolute poverty of 180 euros per person per month, the limit of deep poverty of 140 euros per person per month. Estonia has achieved the status of one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. The difference in income between the poorest and the richest decile is nine times. The richest tenth has ripped away from others in a big leap, while the family head receiving income support has to cope with 76 euros and 70 cents per month, for each of the next family members, including children who are growing up, a little over 60 euros per month. It should be available for the purchase of food, clothing, footwear and other goods and services, simply to satisfy primary needs. In comparison, the minimum cost of the basket, which is currently EUR 77.58 per month. It can be said that the children's welfare is largely shaped by the parents'wallet and the family's caste. The growth environment for children is linked to a whole set of key issues that determine their development and participation in society as an adult. Poverty means limited learning opportunities and social contacts for children, often health problems, low self-esteem, risk of addiction, etc. We have gained more poverty in the difficult economic conditions of recent years, and it is the situation of children that has deteriorated more than others. On the basis of relative poverty data, children's situation has deteriorated relatively between 2008 and 2010, and children's poverty has exceeded both the average and the adult poverty rate since 2008. Children are therefore in a much worse position than the rest of society, reflected in both absolute poverty and poverty risk indicators. The analysis of the Estonian social programmes published by the OECD in 2010 shows that even the small amount of taxpayers' money allocated to support families reaches the pockets of well-off people, not those in desperate need of help. To put an end to this absurdity, the Social Democratic Party Group has initiated this draft. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us not forget that family benefits are universal benefits, which means that children of both wealthy and needy families are entitled to support. Raising children will inevitably entail costs for all families, a small part of which the state has taken up. Families with children have been the most vulnerable population of all time, and statistics show this. The draft proposes to stop the inclusion of child support in family incomes and to ensure that child support reaches each family when the income support is rehabilitated. A little bit of statistics, too. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the total number of households with children who received income support last year was 7542, and 47175 applications for income support were granted. If we in the Commission were to ask that they were all children of the unemployed, then if we were to take the average income support period, it would be six months, and certainly include small-paid mothers, let's say, mothers who receive the minimum wage, who are raising children alone and have to ask for income support in the winter months to pay their heating bills and cover other home expenses. This is what I would like to put to the hearts of the IRL ambassadors, and I hope this time you will support us. Now, about the cost of implementing the law. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the cost of income support will increase by 1.575 million euros this year. In particular, our draft is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July and in 2012 EUR 27 million is earmarked for income support in the state budget. Last year, it took 23.80 million euros and 2 million more. It can be said that in the first half of this year, the weather has been with us, and there are certainly enough 27 million to reduce poverty in a large number of families with children. Once again, it is important that the implementation of the law reduces social inequalities by ending a situation where universal family benefits do not essentially reach low-income families. Honourable Riigikogu! I ask you to support the draft initiated by the Social Democratic Party. This would be a small but vital step to alleviate poverty in families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U114	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I would like to ask Mr Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act supplementing § 222 of the Social Welfare Act submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group on 169 Tuesday, 13 March. In the Commission, the draft was presented by Heljo Pikhof as representative of the initiator, and I would not dwell on this draft, as Heljo gave a very long and very thorough overview and analysed it in the light of the initiators. The debate was quite lively, although the Commission has already discussed this specific draft several times in the past and in its composition as well. The latest issues relate to the study on child poverty carried out by the Chancellor of Justice. The Social Affairs Committee has visited the Chancellor of Justice precisely in the debate on this subject, and that is the latest statistical information we have received. It was also discussed more widely whether a specific draft would help children to emerge from poverty or whether this problem needs a more complex approach. The general idea was that this would be one of the possible ways, which the Social Democratic Party has also proposed. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that by 2013 the state will draw up a so-called Green Paper in accordance with the Coalition Agreement, which will deal in a complex way with all child and family allowances and other measures that must help children and families to cope with their lives. We also had the position of the Government of the Republic, which the previous speaker mentioned here. The Government of the Republic did not support this draft. The Commission also discussed the cost of this draft. According to the calculations of the initiators of the draft act, if it were to be enacted as a law on 1 July, according to the initiators' proposal, this year it could be EUR 1.116 million. According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, this cost would be EUR 3.15 million per year, i.e. EUR 1.75 million this year. The magnitudes are similar, although there's some difference inside. The wider question was where to find this money in half a year, if this law is passed. The Commission decided in this way: to send the draft to the plenary session for the first reading by 20 March (the decision was consensual); to propose that the first reading be terminated (by 5 votes to 1, with 0 abstentions); to set the deadline for the amendments on 3 April 2012 (consensus decision) and to appoint Margus Tsahkna, President of the Commission as rapporteur. So the Commission wants to continue working on this draft. That was our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U116	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U117	Every expense needs to be covered with money. It is not very difficult to cover this proposal with money. People who leave work with the agreement of the parties and who do not receive any compensation after that date are very likely to become recipients of income support because they do not have any income. If they are now allowed to pay money from unemployment insurance, we can save income support money and certainly either the entire amount needed or at least a very large part of it will be covered. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U118	Thank you, good questioner! It's such a new proposal. I do not know how seriously you are taking this proposal, the Commission has not discussed it. The Commission's decision is to proceed with this draft, and this procedure will also make it possible to make proposals that we can all discuss together, involving specialists from different ministries who can fill your proposal with specific figures and possible legal solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U119	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U120	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said the government was once again developing some kind of complex solution, as is always being developed in many spheres. Does your reference to this mean that after the first reading, this bill will be put on a shelf somewhere and then waited for a complex government solution whenever it should come? And if things go well, they'll come back to it someday?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U121	Good questioner! My reference to the complex solution primarily touched on a broader issue, which was also the subject of the debate in committee on this draft, i.e. child poverty, which the Chancellor of Justice has also raised in his study. The figures involved are quite harsh, we have to admit that. However, the coalition agreement states that a targeted support system should emerge alongside universal child and family benefits, and an analysis of its interaction with the proposals should take the form of a Green Paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U122	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U123	Thank you. I'm asking for your personal position. Do you think that EUR 19 should be added to this EUR 61 per month and that income support and child support should be separated? This would alleviate poverty in families with children right now. This money is not even enough for a minimum basket of food, I mean EUR 61. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U124	Good questioner! I would not like to express my personal views here because I am a rapporteur for the Commission. But this is my personal position, and I hope that you will all share that such individual measures will not be enough for us to solve the problem of child poverty. The key is the employment of people of our working age and the salary paid to them for their work, whether it can be met. Income and all kinds of other support systems should support those who, on a temporary basis, I stress: they are temporarily away from the labour market, and those who are unable to work can live their lives. Of course, this specific draft would give them more money and any euro that would add to these children every month would alleviate the difficulty of their poverty. In this sense, every euro, every cent that comes with it is important. But specifically, this bill may not be the final solution. As you yourself said, this is one of the small steps needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U125	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U126	I hope that you will also support this measure. Of course, this is not the only and only remedy. In addition, there are a number of other things that must be done in Estonia. In the Commission, we will see how this bill goes on, either this time the government departments think that children have to deal with 61 euros a month, or they think that this could be 80 euros. The Green Paper will come in years, and by then these children will have grown up and are in desperate need of help today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U127	Good questioner! The question is whether the EUR 80 will be managed. But, as I said, every euro will help these people. And it also shows my attitude that the Commission's proposal is to finish the first reading of the draft and go on with it. My attitude is reflected in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U128	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude its first reading of the 169th draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 169 amendments on 3 April 2012 at 6 p.m. The third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U129	We move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill 164 of Amendment of the Citizenship Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft Act amending § 32 of the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. The aim of the draft is to solve a very important problem which has attracted a great deal of public attention and in which the Chancellor of Justice has also given his support to the initiators, declaring § 32 of the Citizenship Act in force to be incompatible with the Constitution. A number of cases have occurred where people were wrongly issued with an Estonian citizen's passport or other identity card, which has been updated several times, thus giving the person reason to believe that he is an Estonian citizen. Preliminary errors have now been detected during the follow-up procedure and these persons have been deprived of citizenship by forcing them to apply for a residence permit. This, of course, seriously violates the principle of legitimate expectations, complicates the everyday life of these people and also leads to emotional experiences. Last year, 2011 there were 33 people who were deprived of citizenship. In total, there are already over 100 and potentially much more. Fortunately, the Ministry of the Interior has finally concluded that the procedure for withdrawing such citizenship can be suspended and that the cancellation of citizens' documents in this case has been suspended for the duration of the draft procedure. Common sense and respect for their people should, of course, dictate that if the state has made such a mistake, then a way must be found to resolve the situation in a favourable direction for the people concerned. According to the current law, the errors made by an official until 1995 can be resolved in precisely the way in which these people are subsequently recognised as a citizen from the moment they receive the first passport. However, the law does not allow such discretion in the case of documents issued after 1 April 1995. The practical reasons for such a date-based restraint have been repeatedly spoken by the Ministry of the Interior and can be understood, but there is no substantive basis to distinguish between those who received passports before and after 1995 erroneously. The purpose of this draft is to establish a legal basis to make amends for the errors made by an official after 1995 and to give ex post citizenship to those persons who have considered themselves in good faith to be Estonian citizens and who have fulfilled the obligations of an Estonian citizen. Many of them have served in the armed forces, for example. Now a few words from the government's point of view on this draft. The government supported this draft and highlighted the need to complement its implementing provisions to increase legal clarity. The initiators agree with this opinion and would also like to complement the draft between the two readings on important points. For example, some people who have lost their passport have in the meantime been forced to enter another country, as a rule, into the citizenship of the Russian Federation. If we consider this person to be an Estonian citizen afterwards, there will be a problem of double citizenship, which requires a certain implementing provision. Although there are relatively few individuals affected by this draft, it has a significant impact on people's way of life, which is why every possible case should be carefully considered, so that the draft is fully in line with its purpose and all these 100 or a little more people are compensated for the injustice done by the state. We have already corrected one possible legislative gap in addition to one of the comments made by the Estonian authorities. In particular, my proposal has been submitted to the first reading in an amended form. The difference is only one word, but the lack of it could cause serious problems in practice. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about the government. I find it absurd that it is possible to have a problem with the Ministry for a long time, but nothing will be done to resolve it until the Ambassador Ossinovski writes the draft or the Chancellor of Justice makes a formal proposal to the Riigikogu. In the meantime, these hundred people have certainly not grown in love with the Republic of Estonia. In the future, the Ministry of the Interior would expect a more proactive approach to such issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will be able to deal with this draft quickly and constructively and to put an end to the unfair practice of our fellow citizens in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U131	Thank you very much. There's a question for the waitress. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U132	Dear waitress, I've been dealing with a similar case, and I haven't been able to get a wholesome answer from our officials. So it's not just a case. What do you think should be done to ensure that our staff starts to look at matters that fall within their competence from what is best for the citizen rather than from what is easier for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U133	Thank you. I'm not an expert on public administration. But when the Chancellor of Justice introduced this problem to us here in the Riigikogu, Andres Anvelt referred to the same problem, saying that the official body could approach both legislation at all and solving problems in its field of competence more creatively, with the aim of ensuring that people's concerns can be resolved in the most efficient way possible. It is likely that some ministries would also need political guidance in order for officials to be a little more active in such matters. But how exactly does it guarantee, in this respect, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U134	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Evgeny Ossinovski! I would like a co-presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U135	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft 164 at its regular meeting on 13 March 2012. Jevgeni Ossinovski from the Social Democratic Party and the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board took part in the discussion of the draft. The Government of the Republic had also sent its opinion on a draft which was supportive. The debate was very thorough. The representative of the initiator of the draft act mentioned that the purpose of the draft is to solve a problem which was brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice in his proposal No 13 and which the Riigikogu agreed to. The initiator's representative gave a comprehensive overview of the objectives and content of the draft; I will not dwell on it. A representative of the Government of the Republic said that the Government would support the draft, but recommends that it be accompanied by implementing provisions to ensure that the legal status of persons is changed from one specific date to another for reasons of clarity. A good colleague, Ossinovski, has already talked about several of the problems discussed on the board, but there were more of them. At the end of the debate, the initiator's representative proposed to present the draft as amended at first reading, to supplement the text in the last part of the draft text and to add the word 'consciously' to it so that it would be informed of documents containing false information. The Commission accepted this proposal. Finally, the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 20 March 2012, to appoint Andrei Korobenik as rapporteur, to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and to set the deadline for amendments at 6 p.m. on 11 April 2012, i.e. 15 working days. All the decisions were by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-20_U136	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 164. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 164 amendments. a on 11 April at 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful first day of spring! Bye! Closure of the sitting at 12.28 p.m.
