ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! Good morning. We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Let's move on to procedural procedures. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Good fellows, please, let's do the presence check! 69 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the second reading of the law amending the university law, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws, which was not proclaimed by the President of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party Aadu Musta! Dear colleagues, I have a humble request for us all to be a little quieter, because there is too much noise in the hall! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in an almost unique situation where one bill is in front of us for the sixth time in this Chamber. Therefore, it seems that there is not much to add. Indeed, I will refrain from talking about all the good that is in this law, because others will be able to talk about it, and it has been done repeatedly from this remote control. It may even be said that a member of the Commission may soon write in his memoirs the chapter 'How I dealt with university law'. Yet, there is something in this law that forced it to be sent to another circle. I listened and watched the media talk about it. I also heard today that there was nothing wrong with the law, that only some technical error was made there, which means that the Riigikogu made some mistake that the President had to correct. I mean, it's nothing. The question arises as to whether what we are dealing with here is inconsistency with the Constitution, is it nothing? Those who understand politics, the language of politics, the signals and the explanations understand very clearly that the President pointed out that Parliament has caused a balance in some places. Parliament is ready to give, albeit by nuanced, the right to the executive, where it is actually Parliament's business. You know, good boys and girls, we got a remark from the President that we are not doing our job well and that the President must protect Parliament from certain expressions of his majority will.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U4	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's still too much noise in the hall. I ask that we respect those who wish to listen to the presentation and respect the waitress! I beg you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U5	We have been talking here many times about Parliament not adopting laws, but legislation. It does not organise the work of a single agency, but is responsible for the integrated and harmonious management of society, the life of the state. At least that's the way it's supposed to be. The world's leading countries have realised that any reform, even if it provides savings in the future, will require resources to launch. They have realised that in times of crisis, this bad time will be exploited, if not any, at least so that people can learn. To this end, additional systems of all kinds will be set up. However, some things have not been coordinated with neighbouring authorities in this law, and this law may eventually send people who could study out of the university into the army of unemployed people. We believe that, in our idea, the law on free transition to higher education should ensure that less people, less students, will pay for their education than today. But are we sure this will happen? Recently, in our group, the Minister of Education and Science made fun of one question. When asked why some election promises were not fulfilled, he said that Aaviksoo could promise, but Jürgen Ligi, you see, doesn't give money. He thought it was a good joke, but it's not a joke for us. One thing has been said since the beginning of the law: higher education must rely not only on one law but on two laws, just as a strong and healthy person rests on his two legs, and it is good that these legs are more or less in the same measure. The second leg was supposed to be the need-based study grant law, which was due to come to Parliament soon. We were always told the bill was on its way, he's on his way, and he's on his way. It's like an old fairy tale about a kolkhoz cow who had a dream about a big, beautiful haystack that was on the way, but, you know, on the road everyone touched it, and when it got there, it was just a handful. That is why we have a desire, a prayer and a need: let us comply with agreements and deal with matters in parallel. Today, it is not possible to vote in favour of this law only on the basis of half the promises made. I hope that this will help at least in the sense that the coalition will become angry and will decide to honour its promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U6	Thank you. Please contact Riigikogu speech chair Representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U7	I humbly ask for three more minutes, just in case, without any hatred!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U8	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, My esteemed lecturer, Aadu Black, gave me some good notes. I fully agree with him in the sense that the President's intervention has ultimately made this draft even better. I believe that this is the case with almost all the drafts. Otherwise, we wouldn't be coming here together if we didn't make everything better. It is a question of how, in the light of the revised university law, we will proceed with other drafts, which also concern financing from the state budget. In the Committee on Culture, we have been quite unanimous in the view that if we started to describe everything with the same level of detail as the new draft describes the conditions and foundations for funding universities...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U10	Good waitress! I sense that the manager can't handle his function today at all. There's a lot of noise in the hall. I'm really asking for your help! Would you please keep it down a bit? Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U11	It's okay. I have worked as both a teacher and a lecturer, and I know that this is a perfectly normal class set. If we were to begin to dismantle the foundations of funding in all the drafts with such detail, this would in principle mean a different work for the Riigikogu than it has been so far. I believe that, in the context of the next similar debates, this issue will come up in all the committees. I will repeat here a few of the things that have been most asked about this draft and which have perhaps been somewhat less spoken about in this Chamber. Firstly, I confirm that universities will receive more money as a result of this draft, universities will not be reduced, budget funding will not even be left to the same level, but university funding will increase. Secondly, student choice increases, they do not decrease, they do not remain the same, they do increase. The funding of universities will depend very much on how many motivated students are also prepared to reach a university diploma, i.e. graduate. Since, to a large extent, a public subscription to university places by subject area disappears, the student's own choices will begin, and I want to study this specialty and complete this specialty slowly but firmly change what is taught in universities. It makes perfect sense that in universities, more and more are being taught what young people want to learn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U12	Good waitress! Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President has the opportunity to take up to 30 minutes of recess, of which I will use one minute so that we can calm down, hold our stories and proceed calmly with the hearing. I'm declaring recess. The sitting will be adjourned at 10.11.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U13	Good fellows! Break taken by the manager is over. The hall has a different and happier atmosphere, much calmer and louder. Please, waitress, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U14	Thank you very much. We stopped at the point that students would get more choice and that the choices of students, young people, would in future be much more dependent even on which specialties are taught in universities. The third fundamental issue is the expectations of young graduates on the labour market. Estonian companies cannot participate in international procurement if the team required under the procurement conditions is made up only of unfinished graduates. One of the objectives of this draft is to improve the ability of Estonian companies to perform their work tasks at the best possible level and increase the number of people with higher education. For people with higher education, we consider those who have actually graduated from the university. Another very important point. This draft sets out more clearly the aspects of family policy than in the current university's legal space. For the first time, young parents are guaranteed the right to take examinations and calculations, regardless of the university's discretion, for example, during academic leave. All mothers and fathers of children up to seven years of age and parents of children up to 18 years of age with special needs will be entitled to study free of charge even if they complete only 50% of the curriculum. There are no such family policy measures in most countries. We also have one reason why we can be proud of this and why these changes reached our law: Estonia is the leading country in Europe in terms of the number of students with children. This draft should contribute effectively to the sustainability of the Estonian people and to the reconciliation of family and university studies. On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I confirm here that the need-based draft study grants, as we have promised, will enter into force from autumn 2013. For the first time in Estonian history, we receive such a systematic need-based system of study grants. Never before has the state offered such opportunities to students; now these opportunities come. Before the summer, this bill will be in Parliament; in the government, it will have passed the discussions. I hope that the discussions on needs-based learning grants will be meaningful and that the opposition and the coalition will seek to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U15	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Just as on 9 February, when the reform of higher education was the first time in the final vote, so today, too, the Social Democrats are voting against it. In the course of the debate, cosmetic amendments have been made to the law in order to circumvent the President's veto, but unfortunately, these two months have certainly not been used to essentially reflect on what this reform will entail. We have already heard and maybe we will hear more propaganda speeches about how this reform will improve the quality of education in Estonia and facilitate access to higher education. The Social Democrats do not believe either of these electoral platforms in the sentences they have read. As far as the quality of learning is concerned, a new regime in which universities do not essentially have basic funding in law and funding for the next period depends on negotiations with the Minister will inevitably lead to the cutting of the throat between universities because of who teaches what specialties and to what extent. The Minister can say that there is no point in teaching law at TUT because it can be done at the University of Tartu, or at Tallinn University there is no point in teaching physics, as it can be done at TUT. Perhaps the new funding system can also solve the issue of the house of the Academy of Arts if the Minister says, for example, that the EEA as a separate university is not able to provide high-quality education and should join one university or another in order to obtain funding for its curricula. The President considers this practice to be contrary to the Constitution, as it significantly reduces the independence of universities. Of course, not independence from the state and state budget, because we have never had universities independent of them, but it reduces independence from a specific minister. The text of the draft has been completed here and there to formally resolve the problem, but basically everything has remained the same. It is because of the loss of autonomy that we have seen universities withdraw from the whole debate on higher education reform. Some hope that they will receive more money from Aaviksol in the new system; others fear that if they go against the Minister now, they will lose the money. That is why this debate on the quality of higher education has been very peculiar. Pakosta says that quality improves, Ossinovski says that it does not improve, but those who actually promote the quality of higher education are simply silent. Personally, I think that the draft is, in essence, contrary to the Constitution, although it may not be formally. As far as the quality of learning from the student side is concerned, it would be naive to expect better quality, as this is being achieved by a threat of financial sanctions for those who do not complete 100% of the curriculum. There will certainly be a reduction in the time needed to obtain a degree, and, by the way, the number of people who have fallen out will also increase. But hardly the need for 30 credits at any cost per semester raises the level of knowledge. Desiring to deliver a diploma paper to the student as soon as possible, what is actually behind this paper is left behind. Another important propaganda argument we have heard about this draft is fair access to higher education for young people from poorer families. Fortunately, the term 'free higher education' has disappeared from the discussions, because it is really free only in the first semester. The current system, where the state has not found enough money to support students' studies but, at the same time, does not require them to complete 100% of the curriculum, will certainly in its own way ensure fair access to higher education. We have not found the money to provide sufficient support for students to devote themselves to their studies, but we have not demanded too much of them, allowing them to work and thus earn a living. A new requirement for 100% completion of the curriculum could only be considered if we also make the education allowance system adequate. Unfortunately, that is not going to happen. There are two fundamental problems with the government's draft study grants. Firstly, in order to receive a needs-based study grant of EUR 135, which is not enough to survive anyway, 100% of the curriculum must be completed. This leads to a situation where a student from a poor family who does not receive 30 ECTS during a few semesters will first have to pay for his or her studies and, secondly, will lose his or her education allowance. So how is he supposed to study in college? The Ministry of Education has stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft Education Allowance Act that he should apply for income support. The Ministry could still know something about income support so that you don't say such shit. Another fundamental issue is that if the Ministry of Social Affairs asks for income support, the amount of tuition allowance is included in the income, in contrast to the initial draft. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U17	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U18	After all, this means that a young person from the poorest family whose family receives income support cannot go to university in any way, because the amount of his education allowance would then be reduced by the amount of the family income support. I don't know, but maybe the government has agreed to the draft for this reason too, in principle, that part of the additional costs of the Ministry of Education will be compensated by a reduction in the cost of income support. This is why the Social Democrats consider that the proposed reform will make students from poor families less accessible to higher education and thus increase educational stratification. The debate has too much focus on the most talented students, such as our current Minister of Education. They can manage in any educational system anyway, and on the weekend, they can still pick up meat sticks at the train station. There is no need for this reform because of them. Most students, however, have average abilities, and if they are also from a poor family and have to work to live, they are almost impossible to cope with in the new system. The students aren't lazy, they're just poor. As a result of the proposed system, a large part of them are likely to drop out of the university if the universities do not spontaneously smooth the rigidities of the law. Is it in the interests of society that students with medium talent also improve their knowledge and still acquire higher education, or may they fall out? The question must be rhetorical, although some educational elites in this Chamber believe that higher education is intended for 10% of those who are privileged. Consider that we have 32% of adults without vocational or higher education. You may be surprised that the highest proportion of these people is in the age group 25 to 34. It is probably unwise to increase this percentage by means of children who have dropped out of the university for poor families. The Social Democratic Party must vote against this bill once again because we stand for high-quality and really free higher education, and we also want it for students from poor families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U19	Thank you. I ask for Urmas Klaas, representative of the Reform Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This morning, "cosmetics" has become one of the keywords in this hall. I have not seen a single person sitting with a cosmetologist for two consecutive months, all March and April, but for exactly this long or very little time in Parliament's Committee on Culture, with the help of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and with the House, involving rectors of public universities, rectors of private universities, rectors of applied universities and students, has dealt with university law not announced by the President and has seriously debated how and with what precision the funding of universities must be in place, which is the subject of performance contracts, which are the subject of administrative contracts, and how the expectations of the taxpayer, state and society vis-à-vis universities should be balanced, and what universities must inevitably oppose. I dare say that I am even a little concerned about the fact that the university law lays down very precisely the basis for performance agreements with universities. I have a doubt that the law hasn't become too rigid like this. But to say that it has been done with cosmetics is an obvious fictional exaggeration. There have been claims here today that some specialties would disappear and maybe the University of Tartu will no longer train lawyers and has been asked what will happen to the Faculty of Law. The autonomy of universities and the freedom to open new curricula, to train those who are in need of the labour market today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, is considerably greater than the opportunities provided by the national training order system so far. There is no fear that the Estonian state will miss out on the specialists it needs. Far from this, with these same performance agreements and the same negotiations, the Estonian state can order more specifically important specialties and specialists from the state. We talk a great deal about need-based learning grants and the system of education grants. This draft, which is currently in the government and is indeed coming to Parliament, makes a fundamental change in both the system of education grants and the results grants. The current system was implemented in 2003, almost ten years ago. The new system provides for results grants and needs-based study grants for a much higher number of students than those currently receiving this support. If currently there is a scholarship of 55 euros, plus 28 euros... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U21	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U22	... if the student lives far from the area where he goes to university, the new amounts, in addition to the student loan and the opportunity to work, will give a total of much larger numbers of money. Planning also has significantly higher amounts to cover these needs. I have said this earlier, and I repeat now that, although the coalition agreement states that the need-based system will be implemented in 2015, we are working hard to ensure that both the higher education reform and the results agreements start from the same moment, from 2013. These are closely related issues. To refresh my memory, Mr Black said during the second reading that perhaps it is worth voting in favour of this cat, who is of any colour but catches mice. Perhaps the optimism on this draft was greater than at the time of the third reading, although in the meantime nothing else has happened since we have all just grown up by a week. I believe that this bill has certainly improved because we have done additional work. In this faith and believing that Estonia needs such reorganisations, the Reform Party Group will certainly vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U23	Thank you. Reply on the spot, Aadu Black reception.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U24	Since my name was mentioned, I need to be more specific. The fact that the expectations that one draft would be received immediately in Parliament's proceedings have failed. The draft law on the need-based system of education grants did not reach Parliament. That's what reduced optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U25	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's start preparing for the end of the law. Dear colleagues, I will vote in the final vote on the law on university law, the law on university of applied sciences and the law on the amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu, 42 against, no abstentions. The Act amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws, which was not declared by the President of the Republic, has been passed. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U26	We will move to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Finance Committee for the speech of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U27	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee was initiated by the Finance Committee on 30 April. The Audit Committee shall be set up with a view to ensuring that the Bank's activities comply with the Statute. The Audit Committee shall be responsible for auditing the Bank's accounting records and shall submit an annual auditor's opinion to the Board of the Bank. The Audit Committee shall be composed of ten members. The members of the Control Committee shall be appointed for a maximum period of two years. The Committee on Finance proposes to appoint Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as our representative on the Audit Committee, for a new period of two years, starting from 1 June. No proposals were received by the deadline for tabling amendments. At its meeting on 7 May, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U28	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U29	How do you assess whether the previous representative in Taavi Kõiva did his job? I've heard from Europe that he did an excellent job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U30	This issue was not addressed at the Commission meeting. Personally, I have not heard of Europe as to whether Taavi Kõivas was doing well or not, but I believe that Taavi Kõivas was doing very well there. I think that Sven Sester, the current chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is also doing this very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-10_U31	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. Looks like candidate Sven Sester won't object to this draft decision. So we can start preparing the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote draft decision 226. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents, no abstentions. Draft 226 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.35 a.m.
