ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U1	Good morning, dear fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the President of Eesti Pank, Andres Lipstok, on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. The issue of questioning is the availability of cash. We all know that in January of this year, the people of Virtsu were shocked by the news that they wanted to close down the settlement's last ATM. The resentment of the local population was justified because the nearest ATM would have been 20 kilometres away if Virtsu's machine gun was closed. Unfortunately, there are still areas in Estonia where access to cash is significantly limited. Small islands, such as Vormsi, Ruhnu and Piirissaar, have been completely neglected. Thus, the residents of Ruhnu are forced to use the help of the local shop to receive cash, but the merchant charges a fee for the cash dispensing. The decision of commercial banks to close ATMs in less-populated areas can have a significant impact on Estonia's regional policy. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip commented on the situation on 27 January through the Õhtuleht and said that the state cannot put pressure on any bank to ensure that ATMs are available. At the same time, § 34 (8) (2) of the Emergency Act in force in Estonia provides for the availability of cash as a vital service. Paragraph 13 (2) (4) of the Act states that the interruption of the continuity of vital service may lead to the imposition of an emergency situation. According to the Emergency Act, Eesti Pank is the organiser of the maintenance of the vital service. § 37 of the same Act also provides for the obligation to prepare a risk analysis of the continuity of service. Consequently, we have four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U3	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. We're gonna do a presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U4	Let us get to the discussion on today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U5	Honourable Parliament! 'Free higher education is primarily a self-fulfilment approach for a free citizen, where every capable and motivated young person receives the right to study free of charge, while also having a duty to devote himself or herself to complete his or her studies and to acquire his or her education in a timely manner. " Isn't that nice? That's what Jaak Aaviksoo said. Higher education reform is undoubtedly the most important change in the organisation of Estonian higher education. If we adopt the bill as a law, we will enter the same club of countries in the field of higher education as Finland and Sweden, which offer free education to all capable young people at higher education. Higher education reform will ensure, firstly, better access to higher education. Higher education must be equally available to all talented people, regardless of the student's or student's family wallet. The reform will add 3,500 new free study places, and public funding for higher education will increase by more than 25%. Secondly, with the reform, we will make higher education fairer. At present, students are eligible for a free study place at the university, while others have to pay for their studies throughout their university stay, regardless of the results of their studies. With the introduction of free higher education, such injustice would disappear, as all students who are able to enter the university will be able to study free of charge. However, if for any reason a student misses a credit, the university has the right to charge only for missed credits. If a student completes a semester's curriculum with more than 30 credits, he or she will be able to collect a number of credits in the next semester and still study for free. I believe that such a system is flexible and fair enough. Thirdly, with the reform of higher education, we value the student's ambition. It has been criticised that free higher education is not unconditionally free for everyone. I don't think I have to be. I do not think that the state should pay for taxpayers' money without any conditions for all students to complete their studies. The draft is based on the principle that the rights of students must be balanced with their obligations. The state does not need to be sponsored by "eternal students" for their studies that have lasted for years, but rather has to motivate these people to pull themselves together and complete their studies with a nominal period. This wins both the taxpayer and the employer, and above all the student himself, because in addition to today, the student also has tomorrow. We currently have 70,000 students who are able to obtain 10000 higher education diplomas per year. It could take an average of four years to get to a diploma, but it would take seven. The problem with the current system of funding for universities is that ex-matriculation of a student who is a paid student reduces the income of an educational institution, which is why in many cases money is more important than academic content, as ex-matriculation of a paid student would reduce the income of an educational institution. Therefore, because of incompetence, only a marginal percentage of students drop out of the university, as the university's money depends too much on the number of students. One of the starting points of the higher education reform is to increase the efficiency and quality of higher education. Several international reports have referred to this problem over the years. We have dealt thoroughly with the draft law on free higher education in the Riigikogu. We've been very good. The draft has been discussed at the 18 meetings of the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture has been even better, there have been hearings with representatives of all parties and a number of reasonable compromises have been reached. At the students' urge, the admission is based on the threshold of the university. The Draft Need-Based Learning Allowance System is currently in the government's coordination circle. The credit credits calculation model was made cumulative by semesters. This means that if a student receives more than 30 credits in a semester, he will be able to collect less credits in the next semester, as I have already referred to, but still study for free. The Rectors' Council also supported this requirement to complete the curriculum. Students retain the right to study during academic leave, but they must not pass exams and calculations. This prohibition shall not apply to medium, severe or profoundly disabled persons, parents or guardians of children under three years of age or disabled children, or students on academic leave in connection with military service. Once again: missing a few credits during the semester does not mean paying the student off for the whole semester. For example, the student cannot be charged for two missing credits for the entire semester, but must be paid for missing credits. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this draft: Jaak Aaviksood, the staff of the Ministry of Education and Research, Urmas Klaas, head of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, and all the parliamentary groups who took a constructive part in this debate. I would also like to thank the parties involved, who have been representatives of various stakeholders in society in the substantive procedure of the draft, who have made substantive proposals and drew attention to a number of bottlenecks in the original option. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is pleased with this draft, it is a sensible move, it is a compromise. We are brave to press the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U6	Thank you. Please ask Aadu Musta, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is today at third reading. Therefore, I do not think I need to repeat what has been said at first reading and what has just been repeated. I'm talking about the most general. The law is based on the principle that studying is the student's main work and that if he completes 100% of the curriculum, he does not have to pay tuition fees. If he can do less, he'll pay. As a lifelong lecturer, I can see that there has been a crying situation in the organisation of higher education for years. I repeat: never before has the prestige of higher education in Estonia been as low as it is today. That is why the law is necessary. This law helps to clean up the higher education landscape. This law could be considered almost ideal if we did not live in today's Estonia and should not make a law that meets today's requirements. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the task of the Riigikogu is not to do one law or another, but to evaluate the effectiveness of the Riigikogu's work according to legislation as a whole, according to how harmoniously different areas of life can be put to work, but not just to develop one area at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U8	Excuse me, honorable waitress. Good fellows! There's too much noise in the hall. Please respect our fellow officers and honor the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U9	Thank you. A full-time learner must be able to live. The school grant system, which is still under promise, does not guarantee this. The law is an evil trap for many. If you work half-time as a student, you will be unable to complete 100% of your curriculum and will pay for your education. If you don't work, you don't live. There is a risk that leaving university will not only be lazy and powerless, or so-called tug beetles, but also those who cannot rely on Mama-Papa's wallet because of the ongoing crisis. Ideally, a student could, for example, work a quarter of a job in a future specialty, earn something to live, have work experience and practice. But there are no such jobs yet, and the government has not taken any initiative to create them. The Commission worked to soften too steep transitions in the current circumstances. After the Minister made an evil voice and recalled the coalition agreement, ladies and gentlemen from government departments voted these proposals down and the course was taken to tighten the requirements of the law, because it will be cheaper. Our group is of the opinion that this law is not a harmonious law addressed to the whole of society. Do you like a society in which, during a crisis, the unemployed are enthusiastically written about retraining courses, where the unemployed shovelman can become an entrepreneur, but students who are able to learn, who are in financial trouble, threaten to send the unemployed to the army as a complement? All right, I'll say softer: let them go abroad, where it's better to study! In our opinion, such a society is not a harmoniously organised society. 'Students' rights and responsibilities must be balanced. " Isn't that a good word? This is what the esteemed Urmas Reinsalu just said from this speech chair. I will also conclude optimistically and call on good colleagues in the Riigikogu to work towards the submission of new drafts to balance this law, which is now jealous, and to help balance this jealous matter with the following laws. Then we can also vote in favour together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U10	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the government coalition has just named the draft law before us, which is quite spectacularly free of charge, a draft law on higher education. We all remember how we recently passed a law here in the Riigikogu called a law reducing home expenses. Now all homeowners are probably happy with their hearts, because if they take out a utility bill from the mailbox, they will know that the Riigikogu has reduced their costs. This is probably also the case with the draft law on free higher education before us. It has been customary for important changes in the field of education, which have a long-term impact and concern the fate of a generation, to try to avoid populism and to seek consensus in the Riigikogu so that there is no risk that these changes will be taken back in the immediate course of the government. It would not have been very difficult to reach such a consensus today, as the Social Democratic Party will certainly support, for example, the objective set out in the current government coalition agreement to increase the public training order of higher education institutions by 40% and the introduction of a need-based system of study grants. But instead of implementing this programme, the coalition is pushing through a pre-election populist promise by a coalition partner about so-called free higher education, which was already mentioned. Of course, social democrats also support the transition to free higher education. However, we understand that filling this slogan with real content requires far greater financial coverage than the budgetary strategy of the government union provides for. The draft plans to allocate an additional EUR 33 million to higher education in 2015, but the Ministry of Education itself estimates that this will only compensate for a reduction in private funding for higher education and this is even the case where public funding for higher education has decreased by 14% compared to 2008. At present, the lack of funding resulting from the ban on paid admission is likely to result in a reduction in the number of academic staff and student positions, and it can also be expected that some curricula will be closed, particularly in humanities and social sciences, where paid education is prevalent. The hope that young people will thus be directed to learn low-popular real and engineering sciences is hardly meant to be realised on a massive scale. Since the coalition did not take into account the proposals made by the Socialists and the Estonian Student Associations to make the system for collecting credit for free learning more flexible, we fear that the 100% requirement to complete the curriculum semester will lead to higher education being paid not to 50% as it is today, but to the majority of students. In addition, this puts students in a state of compulsion to choose subjects, as the choice is only to be made from the subjects offered in the study programme during a given semester in order to complete 30 points this semester. It may also be expected that the quality of teaching will suffer, as it is in some way that a meeting of points is a priority. The same applies, in fact, to a strict requirement that does not allow examinations or calculations to be carried out in advance on academic leave. But the most important thing is probably what the Minister has repeatedly emphasised that the reform can only be launched with the introduction of needs-based study grants and performance and sector-specific scholarships. This has also been demanded by the Association of Estonian Student Unions. Now, however, the coalition wishes to adopt the draft law on higher education reform in a situation where the draft law amending the law on student grants and student loans has not been submitted to the Riigikogu and, in addition, the Coalition Agreement provides for the introduction of needs-based study grants only since 2015. We know that on 12 January, the Ministry of Education sent a draft to the internal coordination circle, according to which only students whose average income per family member is below the relative poverty threshold would receive a grant of EUR 135, whereas up to the age of 26, the student will be considered as a single household with his parents. Support may be granted only if the curriculum is 100% completed. With EUR 135, of course, no one can easily live and a young person below the poverty line has no home help or student loan guarantors anywhere. Hence, he finds himself in a dead circle: you have to go to work and learn full - time. But what is even worse is that, according to the Ministry's own estimates, the grant to students who benefit from the poverty line during the first semester alone would require an immediate EUR 3.4 million. In the 2012 budget, only eight million students are allocated to the entire student body for study grants. The Minister has said that he will be calling for this amount to be doubled by 2013, but in this case, too, only about 20% of students will continue to benefit from this funding on a need-based basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U12	Honourable waitress! Would you like some extra time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U13	What, though, must the remaining 80% of students, half of whom are now in employment and not in laziness, do precisely because they are unable to complete the curriculum with 100% load and nominal time? Where are the promised results and sector-specific scholarships, that is another question. These issues must, of course, be discussed in the course of the procedure of the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans. It will then be possible to make a final assessment of the effectiveness and social consequences of the proposed reform as a whole. According to the current draft, the law will be effective from 1 January 2013 and will have a real impact on students entering higher education on 1 September 2013. There is no reason why we should not discuss this draft further, seek consensus and adopt it as a law in parallel with the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans, then also knowing the amounts planned for higher education in the 2013 state budget. Today, however, an amazing situation has developed. Calling higher education a free service has triggered mass protests by student organisations. From a society where people were forced to be happy, but they themselves fought against it, we should be far away. I do not think there is any reason to accuse students of illiteracy and accuse them of social activity, as the Minister of Education did here at a previous reading. I'm sure they'll understand very well what a force-pressed bill is threatening them with. To this end, there is a risk that higher education will become more difficult to access, especially for the less well-insured young people. This means that educational stratification will continue to deepen in Estonia. Without a proper and secure financial cover, the party-to-party push-through of the currently offered higher education reform is an advance. The Social Democratic Party Group cannot yet vote in favour of such a half-solution, because the real result may be that thousands of young people are given hope for free learning, but that hope is not fulfilled and therefore students are deceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U14	Thank you. I ask Urmas Klaas, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U15	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the speech that has just been given, it seemed that ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats, do not remember what the basic content and purpose of this draft, which I have repeatedly emphasised both in plenary and in the Committee on Culture, has been pointed out by both the OECD and by many other domestic and foreign experts. The current national training order system as an ineffective system is replaced by performance contracts. Do we really want taxpayers' money to continue to be thrown away? According to the current system, the state orders training services from universities, orders specialists who do not come. 70000 students reach a degree of 10000. True, this is happening for various reasons, but it is deeply sad that substantive arguments are underestimated and that we are being painted with a picture of students as incapable as helpless people. I do not believe that Estonian students agree with such an attitude when the opinions that they are unable to complete their studies are incompetent, etc. Ladies and gentlemen on the left! I think that if you had studied at the university in your own time with the mentality you recommend to current and future students, the Estonian people would not have elected you to the Riigikogu and you would not be working here today. You simply would not have exceeded the threshold of industriousness, if you could say so. The three main objectives of this draft, namely improving the quality of higher education, improving access to higher education and improving the ability of graduates in the labour market, will certainly take a major step forward when this draft comes into force as a law. Parliament has been preparing this draft since September. All the political groups individually and the Committee on Culture have met with all stakeholders. They are not only students, and not just one part of them, as it may seem, but the circle of those involved is very wide. I dare say that we will reach the final vote today at a very constructive and industrious pace. What is in the final vote today is certainly a compromise draft. I categorically disagree that it is a matter of imposing something and pushing someone's individual interests through. Possibility of a university not to be obliged to charge a fee if 30 credits are not collected, cumulative calculation per semester, associated with examinations and calculations during academic leave, the introduction of an entry threshold as a general rule, these are all compromises introduced in cooperation with different stakeholders, including students. Why do we keep telling ourselves things are different? No, it's not. This is a compromise proposal. Indeed, these compromises have been sought since September and have been reached with serious work. So when the bill becomes a law, this law is certainly more flexible than the one initially reached the Riigikogu desks. This law certainly takes a step forward in strengthening the bond between employers, businesses, as well as private individuals and universities. Both companies and private individuals will retain the right to apply for the opening of a curriculum and the creation of study places if they find that this needs to be done quickly and the labour market needs to react more quickly, maybe professionals need to be able to do so more quickly than otherwise. The Reform Party Group has stressed that the processing of university law must take place in the same context as the debate on the need-based system of study grants. This is happening because the draft law on student grants and student loans is in the government's inter-ministerial coordination circle and is about to reach the Riigikogu. As far as the results grants are concerned, their general regulation is laid down in this draft. We talked long and wide about when this bill should come into force. Yes, the Ministry wanted it to enter into force quickly so that it would regulate the matriculation of students who would be matriculated on 1 September 2012. The opposition pointed out that this haste was not right, and the rectors also opposed it, because universities must have more time to introduce a new admission rule and everyone must have time to get used to the system. A compromise has been reached that university law will enter into force on 1 January 2013 and will apply to students who will be matriculated in 2013/14. in the academic year. So when we look at how things really are, we can see that they are precisely in the way that this draft has been drawn up in the Committee on Culture in close cooperation with the representatives of the political groups, taking into account the interest groups, from all the proposals a sensible joint section has been screened out, and today it has been poured into the draft. The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of the draft as a law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U16	I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 89. Good fellows, I'm going to vote the final vote on bill 89. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, 43 members of the Riigikogu against, no abstentions. Bill 89 of the Act on the Amendment of University Act, University of Applied Sciences Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U17	We will move to the second item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Fees Act and the Traffic Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 21 November 2011. The first reading of Bill 137 took place in s. a on 11 January. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments, 18 January at 12 o'clock. The commission discussed a draft of 137 for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 26 January, where representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also participated. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to table its own amendments following the discussions in the draft before and after its first reading and the proposals submitted to the Commission. The Committee on Economic Affairs finalised 29 amendments to the draft, 26 of them on the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Since this was a rather technical draft, all the amendments are of a technical nature. Most of them are due to the application of the regulations and the alignment with the standards already laid down in the Public Transport Act, which entered into force at the beginning of this year, and the introduction of standards in the Public Transport Act. The Economic Commission decided to send the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a On 8 February, but since the Riigikogu Board of Directors proposed that we move the second reading to this day, we did so later. The Commission decided to propose to the Assembly that the second reading of the draft be terminated and, if the second reading is completed, that the third reading be completed. February 15th. The proposal is to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-09_U19	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the 137 amendments to the draft. There's 29 of them. Everything has been received from the lead committee and the view is that they should be fully taken into account. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. There was a debate in the Commission on Amendment 17 and the Commission's view is that the proposal should be fully taken into account. Amendments 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the second item is dealt with. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
