ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the first additional session of the Riigikogu on 2 October, which the President of the Riigikogu has convened in accordance with § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, at the request of the Government of the Republic and by decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 27 September, for the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on " Increasing the Maximum Loan Capacity of the European Stability Mechanism and Making a Second Capital Payment." The session shall run until the agenda is exhausted. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask for a chair of speech from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U3	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of last week, the press received some disturbing news about Estonian Air. Consequently, the Social Democrats, who are very concerned about the future of Estonian aviation, have an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Last November, the government approved Estonian Air's new business strategy, which in the future provided better air connections for Estonia and therefore increased competitiveness. It was also decided to invest an additional EUR 30 million in the company. According to the new strategy, the company should strengthen its economic position and also engage in internal restructuring. The company should also increase its market share in Estonia, the rest of the Baltic States and the Nordic countries, based on the strategy for 2012 and 2013. The airline manager Tero Taskila, introducing the new strategy, claimed that his team would assume full responsibility for the implementation of the new strategy. In the middle of this year, hope was expressed that the company would make profits in 2013. However, half-year results show that the company is almost EUR 15 million in deficit. As a result, the Social Democrats have a number of questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications concerning the financial situation of Estonian Air as well as how the Minister sees the distribution of responsibility between the management and the manager of the shares, as well as the impact of all this on Tallinn Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U5	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry from the Central Party Group to the Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, on the sustainability of the health system. § 67 (1) of the Government Act states that the government of the Ministry of Social Affairs includes the drafting and implementation of plans to solve the state's social problems, the organisation of public health protection and medical care, employment, labour market and working environment, social security, social security and social welfare, etc. Since 1 October, health professionals have started to strike with the aim of preventing doctors and nurses from leaving Estonia and stopping the breakdown of the health care system. Strickers want to limit workload and increase healthcare funding in order to make medical care more accessible to patients. So far, no agreement has been reached between the parties, and the proposals of health professionals have remained the voice of a shouter in the desert. In order to ensure the sustainability of the funding of the health care system, additional resources should be found in the Health Insurance Fund's budget. A number of options have been proposed for this purpose, such as ending several years of non-compliance and compensating for the depreciation of hospital buildings from the state budget. The Minister of Social Affairs has the opportunity to change the organisation and principles of the health care system, including funding. We have the following questions. How does the Minister assess the current health system situation? What are the plans of the Ministry of Social Affairs to stop doctors and nurses leaving Estonia? We have other questions. Eleven members of the Central Party Group have signed an inquiry with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U7	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of my 11 colleagues, I also have an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry concerns the social aspects of price increases. As you have noticed, next year, the great increase in electricity prices will hit families with low incomes. However, this increase does not seem to take into account the state budget for next year, which was handed over to the Riigikogu last week. On the contrary, even four million euros less is planned for income support in the state budget than this year. At the same time, the subsistence limit remains the same as this year, i.e. it is still EUR 76.70 per month. We know what has happened in addition to housing costs at food prices. As early as 2011, prices in Estonia increased so much that the minimum cost of a basket was 85 euros, which is still considerably higher than the frozen limit of living. In this context, we have three questions for the Minister of Social Affairs, who, because of his professional position, should also think about the people who have the most difficulty in coping with Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and three inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide to accept the draft laws within three working days and the inquiries will be forwarded to the addressees without delay. Now let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu of 27 September on "Enlargement of the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and making a second capital contribution', the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act, initiated on 26 September, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft State Budget Act 2013, initiated on 27 September 2013, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of wages relating to the average salary of Estonia and the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, initiated on 27 September, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 27 September, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the Courts, initiated on 27 September, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Environmental Charges Act, initiated on 27 September, of which the Steering Committee is the Committee on the Environment, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on maritime safety, initiated on 27 September, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the State Fees Act, initiated on 27 September, of which the commission is the Finance Commission, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Enlargement of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank" initiated on 27 September, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded s. The following positions were presented by the Government of the Republic on 27 September to the Committee on European Union Affairs. Firstly, Estonia's views on the Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/87/EC to clarify the provisions on the timing of the auctions of greenhouse gas emission allowances. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 11 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, Estonia's views on the European Commission's initiatives to clarify the regulation of consumer protection in the financial sector. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and their initiatives. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 11 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, Estonia's views on the roadworthiness test package launched by the European Commission. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and this initiative. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 18 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, Estonia's views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on collective management of copyright and related rights and on the multi-territorial licensing of online rights in musical works in the internal market. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Legal Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on this draft. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 11 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, At the Riigikogu's additional session, the Riigikogu has a quorum if more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present. That's why we're doing the presence check. There are currently 79 comms present, 22 missing. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. On the agenda of the first additional sitting of 2 October 2012, the Riigikogu's decision to increase the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and to make a second capital payment is submitted by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U10	We will address today's item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled 'Enlargement of the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and making a second capital payment', begins. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft decision of the Riigikogu before you relates to the entry into force of the ESM and the first meeting of the ESM Board of Governors on 8 October. According to the draft decision, the Riigikogu confirms the joint maximum loan volume of EUR 700 billion for the European Stability Mechanism and the European Financial Stability Fund. The maximum loan volume of the ESM remains EUR 500 billion. Therefore, the State's liabilities will not be increased. The government will also ask the Riigikogu to consent to the accelerated payment of the second ESM capital payment within 15 days of the entry into force of the ESM Treaty. The first payment has already been included in the 2012 budget. According to paragraph 6 of the Preamble to the ESM Agreement, the ESM Board of Governors may review the EFSF, which is the predecessor of the ESM, and the total loan volume of the ESM, which is up to now EUR 500 billion, in the event of the entry into force of the ESM Agreement. As explained and repeatedly explained in the explanatory memorandum to the draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the ESM Treaty in the Riigikogu committees, on 30 March 2012 euro area finance ministers declared that the ceiling for the two funds was set at EUR 700 billion. However, capital contributions will not be increased and the State's financial obligation will not increase. Euro area finance ministers have decided to make capital payments faster than originally planned in order to accelerate the full capacity of the ESM. While five equal contributions were planned in the design of the agreement over five years, it has now been decided to make the contributions at half the pace: two payments in 2012, two in 2013 and the last in 2014. Since Estonia's 2012 state budget has taken into account one contribution, the second contribution requires first a decision of the Riigikogu and later a change in the state budget. This proposal will be submitted by the government to the Riigikogu in the near future. In the case of a contribution, it is a financing transaction. Estonia acquires 30 million euros of financial assets, i.e. participation in the ESM, and this is not reflected in the calculation of the balance of the state budget. This omission is not just a formality. In other words, it is not about spending money, it is about redeploying the state's financial assets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U12	Thank you very much. We will get to the speeches. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U13	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In the financial, economic and business world, a great deal depends on faith. If investors believe, markets will rise, if investors do not believe, markets will usually fall. You, good minister, have always spoken with conviction and conviction. Do you believe that an increase in the combined lending volume of the European Stability Mechanism and the European Financial Stability Fund to EUR 700 billion is sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U14	Thank you. The problems currently known can be said to be sufficient, but the markets certainly need a declaration that the firewall is high. This has been asked a great deal, and that is why the finance ministers made such a fundamental decision on 30 March. However, there are skeptics, especially Anglo-American skeptics, who are always talking about much larger sums of money. My answer is that countries with strict financial discipline must show their determination. We are not endlessly assuming responsibilities, but imposing homework on other countries. If they fail to do so, then in these countries, the well-being of people in the state guaranteed part of the country simply needs to be reduced and more than they would like.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U15	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a very simple question that we have discussed here with you, the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So that everyone in this hall and everyone outside the hall can understand in the same way, I ask: what will, after today's decision, be the sum of Estonia's guarantees if we add EFSF and ESM together? Would it be possible to say with the precision of the euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U17	The volume of Estonian guarantees will remain within the promised EFSF (I would point out that we have not participated in the EFSF since the beginning, our share in EFSF is 0.26%) and the ESM contribution commitments. The sum cannot simply be said here because it is an over-guarantee, even in the worst case scenario, where, figuratively speaking, Estonia alone pays and others do not pay or, to be very precise, pay the five highest-rated countries and Estonia. But this is an absurd scenario. At the same time, a lot of promises are made. So it's not here to shake your head or wonder anything. This is a largely declaratory guarantee. It is relatively difficult to say that somewhere exactly this is the real limit. There's been a lot of talk about it. Whoever wants to talk about a spent budget third? I say that this talk and comparison with one year's budget are inadequate, because it does not happen, in international cooperation, that no one is left alone on the ground and still fulfils their obligations, nor does it happen that this is a one-year problem. This is a long-term problem, these are long-term promises, budgets have been made for a long time and there is a long range of countries that are fulfilling these commitments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U18	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U19	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The question is the need for this sitting. I'm always happy to meet my old friends, even extraordinarily, even every few days. In any case, it is good to keep up to date with everything as soon as they happen. But when I read this draft decision, I understand that this step will not increase Estonia's financial obligations. Increasing Estonia's financial obligations is a prerogative of the Riigikogu, but this step does not seem to increase them. I heard it from you, I read it in the explanatory memorandum, and point 2 of the draft decision, which provides for the acceleration of contributions, was already known at the time of ratification. If this calls for a change in the state budget, then in order to change the budget, we will gather anyway. What is your interpretation of why this sitting and this decision of the Riigikogu are necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U20	Thank you. In fact, when discussing this topic, I have always tried to explain that the Riigikogu does not have to assume obligations that make it uncomfortable and are not necessarily necessary. These decisions may not be his level, but the level of executive power. However, the Riigikogu has approved the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, which says that the Riigikogu must decide on important issues relating to guarantees. Following the announcement of this limitation, the important question, in my opinion, is not only the volume of loans, but the Riigikogu probably wants to know also if there may be some partial changes within the existing guarantee volume. Since there is such a binding paragraph, I don't think you would have forgiven me and you would have been very upset if I hadn't come before you with this bill, and I would have thought it unnecessary to let you know that inside this warranty, figuratively speaking, risks may increase. They may not increase, but they may. I stress that risks may increase, not the volume of loans. How would I tell you otherwise? In the spring, on the basis of the views of several countries, there was such a restriction that the ESM would raise a great deal of money, but it could not borrow out of it EUR 500 billion, but around 300 billion. On this basis, ratifications took place in the countries, and on this basis ratifications took place in Estonia as well. However, it was known that this restriction is likely to be unreasonable. Finance ministers have already, in principle, decided that the ESM loan volume could in future be EUR 500 billion, depending on home approval. In short, it could have been done by the finance ministers to complete this matter, but the Riigikogu made this procedure longer. We did not manage to send this draft earlier to the Riigikogu's full assembly because it would have meant making completely unusual, conditional, already questionable decisions of legal value. If the meeting is on the 8th day and the agenda has to be sent out 15 days before the meeting, then very many very strange procedures should have been carried out and the draft quickly put together so that the Riigikogu could have placed this item on the agenda last Monday. I thought it was a lost cause.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U21	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! How much do you estimate the likelihood that the Riigikogu will have to reconvene to make a decision and discuss increasing the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism or making an additional contribution? Or do you think that the crisis in the euro area can be resolved in the future or that the need for additional funding can be met through the European Central Bank, where, for example, as an alternative, more euro will be printed, as has been done in one country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U23	Thank you. I am certainly not speculating on any probability, but I object to your argument that the printing of money in the central bank could solve the crisis. This would not be a way out of the crisis, and it is also impossible because of the Treaties on the European Union. The European Central Bank is not entitled to pay off national debts. On the contrary, it has a mandate to limit inflation and money. He has been able to do this well in a long way. I don't think this system is changing. The central bank can provide liquidity to the economy indirectly through banks, but the countries still have to deliver themselves. As regards the increase in the guarantee volume, according to current knowledge, there is basically no need to increase the guarantee volume or, let's say, the loan volume to resolve the crisis. We need better homework. Estonia has also held this position at meetings of finance ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U24	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! The Deputy Director of the IMF, Thanos Catsambas, has announced that Greece will need a third package of assistance from the euro area in the near future. It has also said that Greece needs additional funding, which may come from public sector involvement or in the form of additional loans. What do you understand about public sector involvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U26	Thank you. The public sector is involved, for example, in the case of the ESM, but there are still possible nuances, which there is no reason to talk about more. The public sector means lending public money, which it still means in current scenarios. I would in no way like to highlight the arguments made by the representatives of the various institutions at different times on the third package of aid. There are also those who have clearly ruled this out and who have actually decided it, for example Germany. However, in theory, this could all change in the elections. We are still living in the knowledge now that Greece has been given a certain programme. It cannot be ruled out that significant changes will be made during this period if countries agree, but they are still trying to keep to the schedule and certainly do not recommend simply increasing the volume of loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U27	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Point 2 of the draft law provides that the Riigikogu agrees to the payment of another capital payment of EUR 30 million under the ESM's accelerated procedure. If we look at Article 41 (3) of the Treaty establishing the ESM, the State can indeed emphasise the word'may' to decide to make these contributions on an accelerated basis. I would like to know why we want to make an accelerated capital payment. This means an additional cost to the Estonian state of 30 million euros this year and next year as well. All this at a time when, in my opinion, very many domestic issues, such as the salaries of teachers and medical staff or child subsidies, are still unresolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U29	Thank you. The market economy and international cooperation are, in fact, complex things. This decision is the result of international cooperation, in short. During the summer, the Heads of State decided to increase this volume, the formal decision came from the European Council in the summer. The thing about the market economy is that sometimes you have to give very strong signals that you are busy and capable, then you are believed in. It will ultimately be cheaper than showing yourself slow and powerless. It was therefore decided to show decisiveness for Estonia. We haven't specifically insisted or requested anything. At present, the Estonian Government is seeking the approval of this decision by the Parliament, considering that it is necessary to convince the markets and also to show our country as a credible partner in foreign policy. But there is also a pragmatic reason: it would be good for us if the ESM were to work quickly in full. ESM is a better instrument than EFSF. Not only because we have a smaller key there, which is of course very important, but also for other reasons. ESM works more smoothly. If, for example, there is a problem with EFSF, these guarantees will be demanded from the State, but if the ESM becomes a bigger problem, then its buffering capacity will be much greater. After all, he does not lend out the capital that we put there, but he borrows money from the market and serves himself on the basis of the credibility he has because of this paid-up capital. If we pay up money faster, we'll have more credibility. I do believe that for the ESM, we are hearing from the outset that he has been able to obtain a loan at a negative interest rate on the market. But, of course, it depends on how anxious the markets are. Maybe negative interest will disappear as a phenomenon at all, but it has been. It has been in the United States at different times, has been in Germany, has also been in the case of EFSF. I have to think about what other countries have gotten it. There has been one or two other countries with an AAA rating. But I'm not gonna say it just in case, because it has to be checked.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U30	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! You have told us on several occasions how necessary it is to support these aid packages, and you have instilled in us that these countries will certainly be able to repay the money we have given and pay off the guarantees. Do me a favor and inculcate me with that conviction. How is the Greek State still able to fulfil these obligations? In the second quarter of this year, Greece experienced a 6.2% economic downturn. At the same time, for the same amount that we are allocating today, the Greek State will start building a car ring for EUR 30 million. How do you convince us that this money will go to the right place and we'll get that money back? My question is also this: will you support Greece's next aid package?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U32	Thank you. Greece is not coming up with a new aid package. Greece has an existing package in which each disbursement is considered depending on how it has managed its own. Do not attribute it to me as if I have confirmed with a terrible conviction here that all countries will be able to repay this money! They don't really have a choice. I am quite certain that these countries will be told on the basis of current knowledge, but there will always be no forgiveness for more knowledge. Other countries don't give away money. They can make concessions, for example, in terms of deadlines. Greece's problems are very long-term and I cannot in any way rule out the shift in deadlines. I don't really want to believe the formula track news, but I've already asked for information about it. I know I have an answer in my mailbox. I don't approve of any motor sports expenses, but that's my personal conviction. I know I'm gonna hurt millions of Estonian motor sports fans, but I think it's a barbaric sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U33	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with the subject that Rainer Vakra asked you about. When we decided to ratify the ESM in this Chamber about a month ago, even then, let us be honest, we did not get the answer, which is the maximum loan volume in Estonia under the worst scenario. Can you tell me once whether the total volume of ESM and EFSF commitments will be EUR 1.3 + 2 billion, or EUR 3.3 billion? I know that your ministry official in the Committee on Monetary Affairs claimed that this amount was EUR 2.3 billion. Or is it a third sum? What is the maximum volume of Estonia's commitments on the worst day than putting the ESM and EFSF together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U35	Thank you. You can calculate it yourself, considering our keys. But describing the worst-case scenario is extremely impractical. It's pointless, it's going to live its life, but it doesn't correspond to reality. I am not going to describe the situation of the Riigikogu, for example, when a meteorite falls on this house during the hearing. There's just no point in talking about it. International cooperation is not about Estonia being alone in the field and paying alone. That's not possible. However, the markets need to be given a strong message of solidarity and over-guarantees, the result of which may be a very clear monetary victory, apart from the fact that we will have a working mechanism. A clear monetary victory means that we can get a loan at a negative interest rate, and with it we can serve countries that are in trouble as long as they deliver and carry out their plans. But talking about 1.3 billion ESM is pointless. This talk is legally necessary, but it is not necessary in essence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U36	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U37	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Estonia agrees with the draft that the second capital payment of EUR 30 million will be made to the ESM already this year. I understand that the second instalment is also planned for the 2012 State Budget Act Amendment Act. In this respect, I have the question, Mr Minister: when will the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2012 arrive at the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U38	Thank you. We'll let you do it in the near future. In the meantime, I looked in my papers and saw that this black-scenario design really accounts for EUR 2.3 billion. But once again, don't think about the size. This is an absurd scenario, but knowing it is legally necessary to rule out any hesitation in the markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U39	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U40	Thank you. Dear Minister, The European Financial Stability Fund has been operating for quite a long time. Would you remind us exactly which EFSF programmes and to what extent Estonia participates?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U41	I am not sure that I have these statistics here, but all these decisions have passed through the Riigikogu. I'm having a little trouble telling you the exact amounts right now. I do have a letter that has gone out of the EFSF at all: EUR 17.7 billion for Ireland, EUR 26 billion for Portugal and EUR 130 billion for Greece. That is where I believe Spain should add 30 billion, which is likely to be transferred from EFSF's liabilities to the ESM's liabilities and which have not been paid out. But I do not have an exact number of places and how much Estonia has started to contribute. These decisions have passed through the Riigikogu, but I have no mathematics ahead of me. We'll be sure to send you this information. Whoa, whoa, whoa, now I got something! Estonia has participated in 11 billion payments and its guarantee is 31 million euros. Thus, 31 million euros is Estonia's participation in EFSF programmes. The countries were already listed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U42	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U43	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I assume that you will also have the text of the draft decision 286 with you in the chair, which we should approve today at the second sitting. The Ministry of Finance has prepared a text which states in the first subparagraph: 'The Riigikogu decides on the basis of § 2 (3) and § 3 (1) of the European Stabilisation Mechanism Treaty ratification and implementation Act. ' On 30 August, the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism was adopted here with the votes of the IRL and the Reform Party, but you have prepared a draft for us on the basis of the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stabilisation Mechanism. Do you think the text of the draft decision prepared by the Ministry of Finance is correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U44	Thank you. Good question. A stability or stabilisation mechanism? I think we have time to check it out. Stability can be translated from English either way. In spoken language, we're used to the ESM. I haven't paid attention to this end of the line. Or should it be called the end of the stem? Let's take a look. That's a good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U45	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll pick up where George Wheels left off. You advised him to calculate for himself, using the keys, all possible guarantees for EFSF and ESM. Let's just say maybe PhD student Ratas can do it, but Master Vakra certainly can't. When we were discussing the ratification of the ESM Treaty here, the Chairman of the Honourable Monetary Commission became "depreciated" with his popular folklore on the subject, or is not enchanted, even throughout Estonia. He later sent out a press release claiming that this amount was EUR 1.7 billion. You said that the 'black' scenario was EUR 2.3 billion. For me, these are very large numbers, and I would like to know before pressing the button, what is then, in summary, Estonia's maximum guarantee for the black scenario.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U47	To be honest, I doubt the sincerity of this question. Quite sincerely. You're gonna ask that for the 17th time. You know what our key is in the EFSF, and you know what our key is in the ESM. I should recalculate them here now. I might be wrong when I'm on the remote right now. Maybe it's the 1.7 billion that's right, maybe it's because we're joining the EFSF later. There are nuances somewhere. But we're not talking about billions, it's not really billions. It is not the case that all other countries will give up and Estonia will remain on the ground alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U48	Please, procedural question, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It seems to me that it is appropriate to take the chairman's break so that the Minister of Finance can calculate the volume of Estonia's obligations and be able to give a correct answer in the Riigikogu on the subject of which the final vote is to be held today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U50	I think that is a impractical remark, because you have now asked me about the claim made by one person. I didn't mean to say that the number he proposed was wrong. I said I'd leave it to the point that it needs to be clarified. But all of this is not really the content of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U51	Please, Kadri Simson, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, in answer to Rainer Vakra's question, said that he might be wrong and therefore he is not risking the sum of Estonia's obligations at this time. I really think it is appropriate for the Riigikogu to finally know what the full volume of Estonia's obligations are. If the minister doesn't have any advisers who could help him, maybe he could find out during the break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U53	Thank you. The practical solution is that I'm staying with this...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U54	Minister, will you allow me to answer the procedural question put to the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U55	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U56	I just want to make it clear that this was not a procedural issue. I believe that in answering the following questions, Jürgen Ligi will also be able to answer this question more precisely. We're moving on. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am now going to ask you for the 18th time, and I hope that the President of the sitting gave the right clue that you will still be able to answer that question. You're saying we don't want to think about the darkest scenario of all. At the same time, there is a parallel. When Eesti Pank makes forecasts of economic growth, there are also three forecasts: optimistic, pessimistic and average forecasts. In view of the fact that the Riigikogu is as broad a representation of the Estonian people as possible, I think that the Riigikogu is right and even obliged to know what must be taken into account in terms of loan volume or guarantees in Estonia's worst-case scenario. After all, the Riigikogu decides whether or not we support this bill. What is the loan volume in the worst case scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U58	Thank you. First of all, Eesti Pank will never present the worst-case scenario forecast for the economy. The worst-case scenario is not likely, the worst-case scenario is always a disaster. Eesti Pank has ranked the most likely scenarios, just like, by the way, the Ministry of Finance. I will stick to this amount of EUR 2.3 billion. But I think it's practical not to deny the possibility (I'm not here to deny it) that Sven Sester has a more precise number. I repeat, it is practical not to deny this possibility. This does not directly impede the debate on this draft. Between two readings, we look and compare these numbers. Sven Sester may be right, he is a member of the Riigikogu. I have no reason to say that he is necessarily wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U59	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I have already learned to enjoy your emotional reflections and philosophies about what is great or small. It is especially fun to have an opinion on what one or another person should think. That is why I am not asking a question that you should know a specific number to answer, but you can answer my question in your own style. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that it is likely that the EFSF will not undertake any additional commitments until its closure in mid-2013. However, the statement by the Eurogroup of 30 March states that the EFSF may also undertake commitments in the new programmes. I'm very interested in what you feel like and which of these opinions you like better. Do these opinions conflict or coincide? What do you think of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U61	Thank you. I couldn't follow your reasoning. There were personal assessments here, and I think there were some misconceptions. I thought you were talking about the EFSF and the ESM, talking about some different documents. I can't find the exact question and I can't compare the materials you quoted. Show me after them on black white, then I can compare them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U62	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U63	Thank you. Good minister! I want to get a few details on the EFSF. There is conflicting information in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. On the one hand, it is stated that the EFSF has committed itself to financing the financial programmes of Ireland, Portugal and Greece amounting to EUR 192 billion and that, in addition, EUR 30 billion has been earmarked for urgent unexpected funding. However, according to the draft, the overall limit is set at EUR 200 billion. If we put an extra 30 on 192, it's not 200. How about this? That's another thing. You said that Estonia has so far guaranteed commitments in the EFSF amounting to some tens of billion euros. At the same time, the draft states that Estonia has already guaranteed 417 million euros or 665 euros with an over-guarantee. Which information is more accurate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U64	Thank you. These other figures, I don't think I've used, even though they look familiar to me. How would it be easier for you to perceive this ceiling of obligations? The easiest thing to do is remember the 700 billion you can't borrow more than that. Certain overlaps in EFSF and ESM are not excluded, but no more than 700 billion can be borrowed. This does not mean that 700 billion will be borrowed, just not to borrow any more. Now out of those 192 and 30 billion. Indeed, 192 billion have been committed. As far as I know, payments have been made for 173 billion dollars, but maybe now some data has become obsolete. 192 billion EFSF commitments are true. 30 billion is temporary money that has not been used up for possible urgent rescue decisions in the Spanish banking sector. This money's on account, it's not placed in banks, it's just in case. Without a formal decision, however, I would argue that if the ESM were to work, this EUR 30 billion would become an ESM obligation. That's what I know right now. If this remains the obligation of EFSF, the ESM's loan volume will decrease. So, overall, EUR 700 billion will remain in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U65	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It seems that the EFSF will also have an impact on our public debt. While we spoke earlier about the fact that the debt ratio was 6.1% of GDP and we were quite proud of this figure, next year's draft state budget states that the debt ratio will reach 12% of GDP in 2013, 4.3% of which is EFSF. Will the debt burden in Estonia start to decrease as soon as the EFSF ceases to operate and liabilities are transferred to the ESM, or only when the current EFSF support packages end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U67	Thank you. The EFSF is indeed reflected in debt, but not in its entirety, but in the amount of disbursements it makes to the countries. Indeed, in the near future, its impact on Estonia's statistical debt ratio will be several per cent of GDP. This 12% is correct, as far as I know from memory. This debt burden component will start to decrease depending on how the loans are serviced. But the debt burden has other components that play their part. For example, the central government has a loan from the European Investment Bank, which has long been taken up, but which we have not made full use of. Recently, we have again used one sum. This is our loan, not just our statistical loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U68	Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U69	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I'm gonna start with a personal line. In particular, I think that, based on your family background, if you tried, you would understand the questions of history professors. But you're not trying. I will repeat this question in rural languages. When you defended the ratification of the ESM here in the summer, you said that Estonia's participation is more favourable to us than the participation in the EFSF and that the ESM must be voted for because then new loans will no longer be issued from the EFSF. Now, in September, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs have also confirmed that the EFSF is still prepared to issue loans. Is that true? Will EFSF continue to grant loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U70	Thank you. Now I understand this is your family message I heard on the radio this morning. To be honest, I was very disappointed that a member of the Riigikogu explained that the EFSF would continue to lend once the ESM had started working. That's what you said on the radio. The current formulation was closer to the truth. In fact, if we have some kind of need for money and an agreement that there are two funds, one of which will cease to exist within a certain period of time, then the need for money will be covered according to legal possibilities. The ESM cannot start lending until it has started working, the instruments of ratification have been handed over and the trials have been conducted. This has now taken place, the first Council meeting is on the 8th and additional loans from the EFSF will be stopped as soon as possible. That's clear. All Member States have considered it important that a more inherent structure be put in place which, moreover, would not increase the virtual credit burden. Of course, you simplified my summer words a lot. I've been saying the exact same thing all along. I have not drawn any rigid boundaries between the EFSF and the ESM, but I have spoken of a ceiling of EUR 700 billion. Everyone has the will to start the ESM as soon as possible and stop dealing with EFSF. When it would succeed, there was no way to say anything rigidly during the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U71	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm listening to your answers to the questions. In this regard, I would like to ask the following question. You are defending a bill submitted by the government in this Chamber and you have said on several occasions that you feel that the lines read in the explanatory memorandum are not true. Have you read the explanatory memorandum to Bill 286?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U73	Honestly, I am. But this bill was a very urgent procedure. I've been in the government, and I've been here protecting those who did this bill. It is not possible to deal with the draft risk-free if it is made very quickly. We had one week to approve the government and get some coordination. I don't rule out any problems left with the explanatory statement. But I'd be very sad if they were there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This explanatory statement is a little confusing, you have to read it ten times, think about it, and discuss it before you understand it. Many questions remain in the air during the debate today in this Chamber. The explanatory memorandum still understands that the sum of the two stability mechanisms will increase the volume of liabilities by EUR 200 billion. Apparently, ESM doesn't grow that much. You said that the loan volume of the stability mechanism would increase by 200 billion. Does this change the size of the contributions to the capital or does it change the size of the contributions to the capital? Do we, then, also have a certain obligation to increase capital contributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U75	Thank you. It does not increase capital contributions. This would be a very difficult separate decision, which cannot be made without the consent of the Riigikogu. I do not think that this is currently achievable in the Member States. But never know exactly what the future will be, I don't know what these arguments might be, because governments are changing, people are changing, and positions may be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U76	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U77	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Everything we do is in some ways already gone by train. We are involved in these processes, which I understand are perfectly natural. Recently, euro crisis hysteria has not been so big in the public. You go to Europe a lot with your colleagues and discuss things. In two words, what is the situation in the euro zone, perhaps calm me and other people through me. What trends currently exist in the euro area, whether the situation is improving and whether Spain is under control? Say something positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U78	Thank you. The most positive is the improvement of macro-balancing, the brake is not only on the increase in costs per unit of product, current accounts have improved, but also, of course, deficits have been reduced. But the most important thing is the set of rules. The rules are in place, and they're starting to work. All current concerns have arisen during the absence of rules, right, loose rules and even more relaxed practice. At the moment, there is no reason to say that the eurozone has not made enough decisions to come out of the situation. We could have done more than that. But here we are talking about the Maastricht criteria. For the euro area, this is a long-standing term. Firstly, those criteria are not applied to those who are inside; secondly, there are other mechanisms in place. The new framework has firstly been implemented in a situation where 60% of GDP has no longer been respected. On the other hand, debt is addressed, macro imbalances are addressed. This is a new world, and it is more credible than it was a few years ago when the problems came out and it turned out to be loose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U79	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U80	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm still going to ask you about the EFSF. If we take this decision now, does this mean that no additional payments will be made from the EFSF? Does this mean that EUR 200 billion is a ceiling and no more commitments will be made in the EFSF?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U81	Thank you. I said the ESM will work as soon as possible. I can't rule out any technical obstacles. It seems to me that another payment from Greece is scheduled to be made from EFSF. I cannot rule this out, but it is the will of the Member States that any next payment should be made from the ESM. We're talking about October. We have our first meeting on the 8th. I don't know what kind of technical glitch there is, but it's a 700-billion-dollar border. It's fixed, and we're awaiting approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U82	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U83	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Now you also have this paper in front of you, which states that Estonia has guaranteed EUR 417 million in EFSF. At the same time, you are talking about EUR 31 million. Which number is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U84	Thank you. I'm sure I'll ask what it says, but I'll stick to 31. Estonia's share of the loan guarantees issued is 31 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U85	Thank you. No further questions for the performer. I would like to ask Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on to you before the Riigikogu's decision to 'increase the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and make a second capital payment' draft 286 SE's first reading of the debate. The Committee on Monetary Affairs addressed developments relating to the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). 2010 - meeting of 24 September. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance gave an overview of the state of play of the obligations of EFSF and ESM, the process of launching the ESM and the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is being prepared, concerning the increase in the maximum loan volume and the second capital payment. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 27 September and on the same day the Commission discussed it at an extraordinary meeting. Reiterating the objective of the draft act, I say that with this decision, the Riigikogu confirms the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and the European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) for a combined maximum loan volume of EUR 700 billion. The maximum loan volume of the ESM is €500 billion. The Riigikogu consents to a second capital contribution of EUR 30 million for accelerated payment within 15 days of the entry into force of the ESM Treaty. In short, I will talk about the issues that were at issue in the Commission. One question was what happens to EFSF bonds. The answer was that they would either expire, according to when these bonds were issued, or they would be refinanced and taken over by the ESM. This will depend on subsequent decisions in the ESM. Secondly, the ESM contributions were at issue in the Commission. There was a question of what is the amount of contributions and what are the later steps in terms of contributions. Here we have information that the first deposit is 30 million euros. In particular, it is EUR 148.8 million divided by five, or EUR 29.75 million. So it's not exactly 30 million, but it's easier to operate with 30 million euros. The second payment that we are currently processing will be done in the same way in 2012. The next two payments will be made in 2013 and will be foreseen for the next year's budget. The final payment will be made in 2014. The question was whether the AAA rating would be maintained if the loan volume increased to EUR 700 billion. The answer was that the rating as such would be maintained by the ESM and that no downgrade would currently be foreseen. Interested in how the EFSF will continue to provide loans after the ESM has started. An analogous question was also put in this Chamber today. It is theoretically possible that the EFSF may continue to work as it has been given the opportunity to work until mid-2013. However, practically political agreements have been reached that when the ESM starts, the ESM should continue possible support programmes under its own auspices and wing. The question is that the ESM is not fully operational. The full amount will be reached in 2014, when the last share capital contributions have been made. But at least there is the political will that the ESM will actually start operating on the market as soon as it is formed. There was also an interest in how much money has now been released from the EFSF. The subject went through this hall as well. At the moment, the information is that the amount to be operated is EUR 220 billion, of which nearly EUR 190 billion are aid programmes for Ireland, Portugal and Greece, and EUR 30 billion are aid programmes for Spain, which have not yet been transferred, but for which a decision exists. It follows from this view that EUR 200 billion would come from the EFSF and EUR 500 billion from the ESM, with a total of EUR 700 billion for the two funds. The Commission also asked whether private capital was discussed in specific funds. The answer was that nothing specific has been discussed, but at work level there has been a discussion on this subject. The question was raised that it is necessary to introduce a reference to the basic law of the state budget in the preamble to this draft. That was Eiki Nestor's point. The Commission will make this correction between the first and second readings. The Commission took the following decisions: to close the first reading of the draft (by 7 members of the Commission, 3 against, no abstentions) and to set the deadline for submitting amendments one hour after the first reading of the draft in the Riigikogu plenary session (the decision was taken by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U87	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the political decision to sum up the EFSF and the ESM was already made in March this year. What prevented us from dealing with this decision earlier, which prevented us from doing all this kind of activity earlier? We could have done this when we were together on August 30th. Furthermore, what do you think of the phrase 'increasing the maximum lending volume of the European Stability Mechanism' in the title of the draft decision? After all, we have ratified both the EFSF and the ESM one by one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U89	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 286 amendments one hour after the end of the first additional sitting at 13.47 p.m. Dear Riigikogu! The first additional session is closed. The second additional sitting will be held today, three hours after the end of this sitting. On the agenda, the Riigikogu's decision to increase the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and to make a second capital payment is submitted by the Government of the Republic at the second reading of the draft 286. Opening of the sitting at 3.48 p.m. First reading is complete. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.48 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U90	Thank you. I'm starting with a dimming that's raised questions before. At the end of August, when processing this bill, I argued that these amounts would not be dimmed. At the same time, the Minister's opinion that they would sum up was also suggested. Now look at the volume of these two funds. If we base them on closing, the total volume of the two funds should be 940 billion: 440 billion from EFSF and 500 billion from ESM. By this logic, you could say that this is not an automatic mathematical summation. You also asked why we did not deal with this draft right after the ratification of the ESM Treaty. I understand that the ESM Board of Governors has issued a draft decision on this subject, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic has drafted the draft. According to my sources of information, the Government of the Republic only received primary information on September 20th. In the meantime, if it was thought that it could have been dealt with earlier, the Government of the Republic could not actually begin to prepare this draft decision at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U91	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U92	Thank you, good manager. A good colleague, Rait Maruste, took the words out of my mouth, asking my question, but I will be more specific. If there was a debate on the ESM basic law, you may have given a bit of a conflicting signal about its aggregation or non-summation. Can you confirm today what the total volume of Estonia's obligations are, not in percentage terms, but in monetary numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U93	Look how interesting it is that you didn't ask the minister. You're asking me. But it's very pleasant. I'm trying to answer that question, all the more so as I've been trying to do some homework. I'll get on with it. Three figures have been submitted: the liabilities of the Republic of Estonia are either 1.3 billion euros due to the ESM, 2 billion euros due to the EFSF, or 3.3 billion euros, which is the sum of these two liabilities. In essence, three figures are given. I guess I'm not wrong to say that none of these figures are right at the moment. We must be guided by the situation that is today, and we must look at the situation that is in the near future. What do I mean by that? One thing is clear: with regard to the ESM, we have committed EUR 1.3 billion. We can confirm that now, that is clear. With regard to the EFSF, we have committed EUR 2 billion. However, we know that loans have been issued from the EFSF, as you can read in the explanatory memorandum, for more than EUR 100 billion, which is a quarter of the total. Perhaps we can say that we have guarantees at present for nearly a quarter of the time. The explanatory memorandum states that EUR 417 million is currently Estonia's "obligation," with a guarantee of as much as EUR 665 million. If we look at these two figures, we can say that our commitment is EUR 1.7 billion. Let's keep looking and do the calculation. We know that, in addition to over EUR 100 billion, the EFSF has arrangements in place for the payment of some EUR 100 billion, with a total amount of nearly EUR 220 billion. This, in turn, means that our guarantees in the EFSF will increase from the current EUR 417 million to nearly EUR 1 billion, or almost half of the amount of our guarantees provided for in the EFSF. The EFSF will provide only half of the amount of loans that had ever been provided for. It can therefore be said that these two guarantees amount to EUR 2.3 billion, which the Minister said today from this remote control. Now I'm going to bring in another variable. Let's look at the situation where the ESM may at some point take over EFSF debt liabilities. Should such a situation arise, the EFSF guarantee will disappear and we can return to a situation where our guarantee is only EUR 1.3 billion. This is the case when the ESM assumes the obligations of the EFSF. Then, of course, there will be a situation where the capital of the ESM will most likely need to be increased, as the ESM will be entitled to issue loans of EUR 700 billion and at the same time want to maintain the AAA rating. In suming up this long answer, it can be said that we are now very likely to have an obligation of EUR 1.7 billion (ESM 1.3 billion + EFSF 400 million). Next, our commitment will most likely be EUR 2.3 billion (EUR 1.3 billion for ESM and EUR 1 billion for EFSF, depending on its volume). Depending on how much ESM will take over EFSF guarantees in the future, this amount may decrease for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U94	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U95	Thank you for a very good, long and thorough answer. Mr Vakra's similar question was also answered by the Minister. He was talking about a possible black scenario that probably won't start and is purely theoretical. However, if the worst-case scenario (also in history) were to start, would this mean that the EUR 3.3 billion you mentioned at the beginning of your long answer would be the total volume of commitments? Is that how you're supposed to understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U96	Thank you. No, that's no way to understand what I'm saying. As a result of arithmetic, it can be said that there will not be a situation in which EFSF would issue its full loan volume. However, if it issues its full loan volume, it will not be possible for the ESM to have EUR 500 billion, as it is now fixed at a maximum of EUR 700 billion. It is not possible to have 2 billion and 1.3 billion at the same time. This would actually mean full realisation of the EUR 440 billion of EFSF, full non-return, and full realisation and full non-return of ESM at 1.3 billion. This situation cannot arise because we are already fixing 700 billion in the draft. As I said, this situation cannot arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U97	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U98	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a technical question. Should not the amount of the contribution be corrected in this draft? Is it legally right that every contribution of EUR 30 million is written here if we know that this amount is a little smaller?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U99	Thank you. We talked about this with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and asked whether this amount should be shown with the precision of the euro. The answer so far has been that this is a financing transaction, EUR 30 million is mentioned in the draft, but the real transfer is indeed EUR 29,75 or EUR 29,80 million. This does not, in principle, require an amendment to the existing draft. The answer of the Ministry of Finance has so far been that no specific amount is required here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U100	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U101	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! What is your approach to this final figure in the worst case scenario? What is this one figure, however, which would remain the responsibility of Estonia if the black scenario were to materialise? The minister was talking here about the addition of duties, but let's talk about a particular number. What would that be for the worst-case scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U102	Thank you. I think the Minister of Finance responded correctly. It is difficult and illogical to say that disaster is happening today. If you ask me in this context, I must say that, in the worst case scenario, it is the case that no Member State of the European Union that has joined the ESM will, for any reason, get that money back and everyone will lose everything. That should actually be the answer that should satisfy you. But the question is, what's the probability? Its probability is nonexistent. You're picking up the word that there's nothing nonexistent, because there's always a probability percentage. Really, it does exist. Therefore, this possibility is not entirely nonexistent. It would be correct to say that this percentage is not non-existent, but it is very small. This would actually mean a disaster in Europe. This would mean a situation in which Member States will not be able to get their money back. Its probability is extremely low. After all, the funds also look at the likelihood of losing money. In this approach, there is a very low likelihood that Member States will lose their money in full. That probability is close to the limit of nonexistentity. There are many reasons, starting from the fact that this money is given not at once, but at a time, and that money is given in so-called monitors, what the recipient of the money is doing. If you want money in the next round, you'll have to show me you're gonna keep your promises. This money will be given for a long time, it will not be recovered within one year. There's a lot of variables that, you could say, reduce the potential risk. But if you ask if there is a risk, I'll say yes, of course, there is a risk. You can't say there's a risk. But the probability of this worst-case scenario being realised is extremely low.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U103	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Maybe first of all, it seems that my question is not about this subject, but I believe that the other way around it is. I want to ask you this. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The state budget for the following year has been adopted for tens of years at the end of the year in this very hall. Can you now comment on the probability that we can always say with caution that the budget will be exactly 100%?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U105	Certainly, once we have dealt with the state budget, there has never been a likelihood that the state budget will be exactly 100%. It's perfectly understandable. What is nice is that in most cases the revenue side of the state budget has even exceeded expectations. There have been slightly different cases in recent history, but most times it has exceeded expectations. Of course, the budget is based on some forecasts and on certain macroeconomic indicators. You can never say everything in advance. That is the logic of the matter: one thing is the budget and the other is its later execution. I would also point out that in addition to the money paid by the ESM, the state of Estonia places its capital in several other organisations. In fact, this is the draft decision to increase the share capital of the European Investment Bank that has already arrived at the Riigikogu. Throughout the ages, the procedure for such drafts has taken place without any question. Similarly, this year the procedure for increasing the share capital of the IMF took place. These are also investments in accordance with the shareholders' agreements, Estonia has its own participation and there are tens of millions of euros, if not hundreds of millions of euros. If you ask what is the risk, for example, in the IMF, the honest answer is that there is always a risk. The subsequent investments of the IMF in developing countries, not only in developing countries but also in all other countries, always involve some risk that this money will not come back. Similarly, when money is placed in companies from the Estonian state budget, there is always a certain risk that this money may not come back. We also know the state companies, which are actually negative. In the case of transfers of funds, it is always necessary to assess the likelihood that this money will not come back. Here, I can say that this probability of the figures presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs shows this to be low, at least for the time being.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U106	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U107	Thank you, Madam President. A good committee chairman, a good colleague. I'm listening to you, and a long time ago, I was wondering why we didn't want to say honestly, as you said today, yes, in theory, this is the number, but we very little believe that this theoretical option is going to happen. How many months have we been talking about this? Since March! In the meantime, we'll come back together again, and then the ambassadors will kind of come up with an answer, say the figures. It might be said that this amount of 2.3 billion is a little bit higher or less than that of a theoretical possibility, but this is the practical situation. Why is that? Why don't we tell the people that it is and it isn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U108	How can I put it? I am not saying that the question was demagogic, because it would be wrong, and I would never like to say that to you. Rather, I do not want to agree with you in the sense that it is not said. I recall my speech at the end of August when I, as a representative of the group, went to the remote and said so. I saw that later Marika Tuus-Saul successfully quoted it several times, saying that Sven Sester said there was a chance of losing that money. He's used it several times in his scriptures. I've always said there's a chance. This is not about believing, although to some extent it can be said that it is about believing. It is still a question of an opinion based on statistics, analysis and analysis. Väino Linde asked about the state budget. There, too, is not a question of whether we believe that the volume of revenue from our state budget will be this or different in 2013. It must be based on economic growth, wage growth, and some other indicators. Then we can say that we believe that, based on these figures, our budget will be this way. It's the same here. We cannot say that we believe that the money will not come back, or we believe that the money will come back, plus interest. I would point out that these are loans with interest. It is not only a question of believing, but it is a question of statistics, monitored by dozens of people, dozens of specialists, who specify the actions of the borrower and monitor his work every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U109	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to clarify one mistake at the beginning of Sven Sester's speech for the verbatim. This is not a draft 286 SE, but a draft 286 OE. It's a draft decision. Thank you, Sven Sester. I'll open negotiations and ask Kadri Samson to speak. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U110	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Approval of the draft decision that we are discussing today means granting the right to increase the European Stability Mechanism and the European Financial Stability Fund's maximum lending capacity to EUR 700 billion and allowing an additional capital contribution of EUR 30 million to be made during this year. More specifically, Estonia will have to find this money as early as 12 October, when it is expected to be 15 days after the entry into force of the ESM. I would point out that the government of Andrus Ansip will find this money at the time of the health care workers' strike in Estonia, at a time when teachers are allowed a 20% wage increase, but in reality wage costs will increase by only 4.4% in the next year's budget, at a time when the state company Eesti Energia has announced that the basic electricity tariff will rise by 58% from the new year, and at the time it will be the most absurd when the Greek government will allocate EUR 30 million to build a round track in Formula 1. Is that solidarity? At the end of August, my colleague, Sven Sester, explained the reason for joining the ESM that it was being together in good and bad. Today, it seems that this is indeed the case. The Greeks have had good and the Estonians have had bad. At times, it seems that instead of a money ship, we should send the Minister of Finance to Greece. The wrong ones are those who say that let us not talk about Greece. It is Greece that needs to be mentioned, because this means a package of aid in which Estonia is already participating. The Greek state budget for the following year, published on Monday, is not welcome. Greece's debt ratio, which is 169.5% of GDP in 2012, will increase to 179.3% of GDP next year. This even exceeds the Eurostat forecast, which proposed a debt burden for Greece of 165,4% of GDP in 2013. In this way, it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to reduce the Greek State's debt to 120% of GDP by 2020. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that the decision will increase the volume of the European stability mechanisms by EUR 200 billion, which was already taken into account when ratifying ESMA. It is claimed that, therefore, Estonia will not assume any additional obligations with this decision. In the round of questions and answers, my colleague Rait Maruste asked: who accounted for their additional EUR 200 billion? In the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 30 August, the representatives of the coalition did not even have an answer to the question of whether the obligations of the EFSF and the ESM would close or not, and no one then spoke of an additional EUR 200 billion. If it is said today that this was decided on 30 March, the question arises as to whether this information was withheld from the MPs. Let us think for a moment about the history of the European stability mechanisms, which have become long enough. First Estonia joined the EFSF, then the ESM came. As Estonia had already joined the EFSF and the loans from it had to be transferred to the ESM, we allegedly could not stay out of it. It was then said that 15 Member States could exceptionally take decisions in the ESM even if the rest were opposed. This is a very practical example of how questions-answers in the Riigikogu and the parliamentary debate help to clarify the matter. Because in the end, it turned out that this argument was wrong, and some time later it turned out that 85% of what is necessary for extraordinary decisions is not the number of countries, but the share capital, and therefore decisions can be taken by a much smaller number of countries. We were in a hurry to join the ESM, as the capital key was said to have been there and is now more favourable to Estonia. Today, however, we read from the statement by the Eurogroup of 30 March accompanying the draft that the EFSF programmes that have already started will continue to be financed and, for a transitional period until mid-2013, the Fund may also undertake to participate in the new programmes. The EFSF shall not be locked. With the European stability mechanisms, Estonia has gone, according to the old saying, that at first you will give a finger, after which a whole hand will be taken. The new surprises may not be at all far for Estonia. On the basis of the draft, we are living in the knowledge that the ESM will receive five financial contributions: two contributions this year, the next two in 2013 and the last in the first half of 2014. As the extraordinary meeting of 30 August did not discuss the agreement of 30 March, on which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance now claim that everyone had to know, it is appropriate to recall the Eurogroup statement of 30 March. It states that, in line with the ESM Agreement, the payment of capital will be accelerated even further if this is necessary to maintain a 15% ratio between the paid-up capital and the outstanding ESM issues. Perhaps it is not excluded that three contributions may fall on Estonia next year. The Centre Party Group opposed the ratification of the ESM Treaty, and it still agrees with this. You can't and mustn't jump a small country over your shadow. The bets and numbers in the sandbox we have pushed into are obviously too much for Estonia. These contributions are not reduced by the unwillingness of the Minister to state them clearly in the Riigikogu Chair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I was pleasantly surprised that no one came up with questions such as a doctor's strike and someone's salary. But you see, didn't make it to the end, at least Kadri didn't. But I do not want to continue in this style, nor do I want to remember, whose wages will rise and whose wages will not rise. My wages do not rise; they have not risen for many years, but have fallen. This issue is not linked to pay, because only an irresponsible person would spend reserves on running costs that will not be covered in the future. But we can't dismantle doctors because doctors are needed in the future. There's a way to liquidate the reserves. What was I really gonna say? I first wanted to apologize to the Riigikogu for not being able to find the right figures in my background materials. Believe the number in the explanatory memorandum. The EUR 31 million I said covered one amount in Portugal. In the case of EFSF, we are actually talking about more than EUR 600 million, an over-guarantee, and a guarantee of EUR 417 million. What is guaranteed? There are, in turn, a number of variables. First, we give the guarantee to this approved programme. You can calculate separately how much our promise is about disbursements. Payments, in turn, are not a comprehensive number because the EFSF operates with a buffer, not everything is paid out. The State will pay the EFSF interest for everything, but not everything will be paid out to the State, but buffers will be built in to ensure that the Member States are also protected from unexpected events in the case of EFSF. The second question concerns the extent to which Estonia's "black-scenario" commitment is combined. I confirm over what I said: it is in the order of EUR 2.3 billion. But I also confirm that it is impossible to say the exact number in such a disaster scenario. It may fluctuate a little for a number of reasons. One reason is that EFSF is different. That is what this is all about. In the case of EFSF, the guarantee also applies to interest. We do not know the exact interest rates or circumstances to calculate the exact amount. Secondly, if a country participating in the EFSF itself becomes a beneficiary of the aid programme, it will immediately fall out of the guarantee pool. Mrs. Simson, are you interested in this matter or not? I was hoping I could answer your questions specifically. In short, the EFSF will stop providing loans as soon as possible, and this time is almost at hand, but interest will also be included in its guarantees. We cannot say the number of participating countries either, because the EFSF is less structured, because as a guarantor, there is no longer a matter for the country that has itself become a beneficiary of the aid programme. There are still nuances, but I'm just gonna stop there. Once again, I'm sorry! I think the main questions that have not been answered have been answered. But out of 2.3 billion, I wouldn't advise anyone to talk. This is not a realistic scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U112	Thank you. Minister Jürgen Ligi has expressed his wish to participate in the negotiations. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U113	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U114	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand you, of course, there are many questions, there are many numbers, and there are actually several questions on each issue. Therefore, it may be difficult to keep track. Just in case and in the interests of explaining the figures, I ask again the back part of Deniss Borodichi's question: what are the guarantees granted by Estonia in the framework of the EFSF? You said that Estonia has guarantees of 31 million euros. The explanatory memorandum states this: 'EFSF has paid out a total of EUR 104 billion, of which Estonia has guaranteed EUR 417 million (with a guarantee of EUR 665 million). ' What's right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U115	When I listened to your wording, the sentence seemed flawed, but the legal text must not simply be analysed by hearing. It seems to me that this statement is flawed. 31 is a familiar number. What concerns 400 million is certainly not right. It's just a matter of whether it's written exactly the way I remember hearing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U116	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I fully share your optimism. Indeed, the Eurogroup statement states that the euro area has made significant progress over the last 18 months in addressing the challenges posed by the sovereign debt crisis. Remarkable! Including the involvement of the private sector in Greece as one of the major steps. As I recall, the involvement of the private sector was that the private sector had to write off half of Greece's debt. Is that a remarkable success?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U118	Thank you. No, that's not it. Actually, he had to erase three quarters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U119	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U120	We will begin the processing of today's item: Second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Creating the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and making a second capital payment' by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester! Please, Kaia Eva, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U121	Thank you. As a note, there is no audible signal in the Riigikogu building at the moment. I couldn't hear it in all the places this morning either. We passed on the information, but back here, and in the cafeteria and corridors area, it doesn't work. So we're asking you to arrange for the sound signals to work in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U122	Thank you, it's worth the information! I really hope that if there's another regular hearing, all the sounds will work in the house. But if no one protests, we'll move on to the hearing. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present here an overview of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Riigikogu's decision to increase the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and to make a second capital payment was discussed in the second reading of the draft 286. Two amendments were received by the members of the Riigikogu from Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich by the deadline for amendments. Their first amendment was to delete the text agreeing on an accelerated procedure, within 15 days of the entry into force of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, to make a second capital contribution of EUR 30 million. The Commission did not support this. On the one hand, it was found that the share of capital was rather an accelerated payment, also based on the fact that our share in the ESM was lower, pragmatically better, and on the other, it was found that the whole structure in the form of the ESM was more secure. It was also pointed out that this has been agreed earlier in real life in Europe and we would be wise to confirm this agreement here. The second proposal by Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodichi is to fix the maximum loan guarantee of 2.3 billion euros for the Republic of Estonia. The Commission did not support this. It was noted that both EFSF and ESM have fixed maximum loan volumes as such, and very much depends on what the operation and work of EFSF will be in the near future. Since the EFSF has our capital key higher than the ESM, in addition, the EFSF also deals separately with the interest that we guarantee, and since the maximum fixed loan volume of 700 billion is not fixed separately, what will be the volume of the EFSF, it was found that we should stick to the current fixation, which gives us an indication of the maximum loan volume. The Committee on Monetary Affairs itself proposed two amendments. One suggestion was to change the title of the Riigikogu's decision, which specified that it was not 'increasing the volume of loans' but'setting the volume of loans'. The new title would then be'setting the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and making the second capital contribution'. This explains that the euro area finance ministers agreed at the meeting in Copenhagen on 30 March 2012 to fix the borrowing capacity of the European Stability Funds at EUR 700 billion, and by this decision we are actually authorising the representatives of Estonia to vote on the maximum loan volume mentioned in the ESM Board of Governors. This proposal was fully taken into account, the decision was taken by consensus, no votes against. The second proposal made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs related to two observations. One of them was in this Chamber today, and the other was already proposed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Namely, Kadri Simson pointed out in this Chamber today that in the old wording there was a stabilisation mechanism instead of a stability mechanism. We have now made it correct in the Committee on Monetary Affairs; it is a European stability mechanism. Eiki Nestor had already stated earlier in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that there should be a correct reference to the relevant section and paragraph of the State Budget Act. This amendment has now been correctly incorporated into the draft. This amendment was also adopted by consensus, with no objections. A number of other issues were discussed in the Commission. In addition to the amendments, the need for ratification in the Riigikogu was discussed in addition to the amendments due to the change in the maximum loan volume of the ESM and EFSF. The authors of the draft decision gave us explanations here, and a brief summary of the explanations is that the amendment does not have to come to the Riigikogu to be ratified separately yet, because the agreement as such is not amended separately. In addition, we asked the Legal and Analytical Department to give an overview, in the interests of certainty, of whether a simple majority or a majority of votes were needed for the adoption of the draft decision. In this respect, information has come from the Legal and Analytical Department in writing that no 51 votes are needed for the adoption of the draft decision, as no additional material obligations are imposed here. The Commission also made decisions, which are as follows: The proposal is to close the second reading and to put a specific draft decision to the final vote (by 8, against 2, with no abstentions). The Commission's consensual position is that this decision does not constitute an obligation of property for Estonia within the meaning of § 104 (2) (15) of the Constitution, so voting on this matter does not require a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U124	Thank you! Dear waitress, there is at least one question for you. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A few hours ago, I read in the media a nice colleague of ours saying that you see, for the ESM, the country finds 30 million, but not a drop for the medics. Did the Commission, among other things, discuss such a question, or can you answer it yourself? To what extent are these questions comparable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U126	Thank you. We have talked about this issue before in the committee and the subject was actually reflected in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu today. I'll go over it. Just as the state of Estonia has committed itself to paying the share capital of the IMF, the share capital of the European Investment Bank, which in the near future will come to the Riigikogu's proceedings, the share capital of the Nordic Investment Bank, it has committed itself to paying the share capital contribution of the ESM. This is a financing transaction, which is not directly cost-oriented in the context of the state budget, and any future liabilities that fall outside the current share capital to be paid up are to be carried out as off-balance sheet liabilities. The analogous situation is also when we start to process the 2013 state budget. I would point out that there we see possible payments to Eesti Energia, which is also one of the state's taxes on the share capital of a company, in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U127	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If we look at the final text of the draft, given the worst case scenario for the Estonian state, we have just come to the conclusion that the volume of Estonia's commitments will be 2.3 billion euros. In view of the fact that we now have to find an additional 30 million this year on an accelerated basis and find an additional 30 million euros next year on an accelerated basis, do you still maintain the view that the decision to be taken here in the Riigikogu is good, useful and pragmatic for the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U129	Thank you. I guess we've talked about this before. I would say that, when we enter the European Union and later when we are inside the European Union, we have made certain commitments and this has given us certain rights. Today we are in the hands of decisions that we are fulfilling the commitments that the Member States of the European Union have made on their shoulders. I am convinced by voting in favour of this decision, I hope that, in the light of today's actions and decisions, Europe will become more stable financially, economically, predictable in a positive sense, and that I will have to wish for and hope that the promises that potential borrowers will make will also be fulfilled. To this end, I understand that there is a separate monitoring, according to which the full loan volume agreed between the lender and the borrower cannot be transferred at any time at any one time, but the subsequent loan payments can be made through monitoring, real fulfilment of promises. I sincerely believe that such a dominoe effect can actually work if one, another or third country encounters a situation where it is difficult to obtain financial resources from the credit market. Because what does the ESM really do? It provides an opportunity to take on a period of time, and this period is fixed, temporary financial relief. I believe that this is a good decision in terms of ensuring financial stability.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U130	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You listed the responsibilities of the Estonian state to several institutions in response to the question of Väino Linde. You said that the Estonian state has a responsibility to the ESM, to the IMF, to several development banks, etc. Do you think that the Estonian state also has no obligation to its own people, the duty to ensure that they are able to live by doctors, rescuers, teachers? Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U132	Thank you. No, you certainly haven't misunderstood. The Estonian state has a very clear obligation to its people, and that is why we will begin to deal with the budget that has arrived in the Riigikogu immediately. I believe that, in the coming weeks, we will have a public budget procedure open.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U133	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will continue with the question of Väino Linde. He may have left the hall, but maybe he'll hear a radio broadcast at the cafeteria. We are talking about the EUR 30 million to be found, which will make an accelerated contribution to the ESM. Would you like to shed some light on what the 30 million are now placed in? After all, Estonia places its reserves in different places. Where's the money now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U135	Thank you. I cannot answer you very specifically because I do not have an overview of the current distribution of the cash reserve of the Estonian state, which financial resources, which bonds, which bank deposits it is placed in. If you have any interest, you can definitely contact the Ministry of Finance and ask for it separately. I also draw the attention of good members of the Riigikogu to the fact that legislative and executive powers must definitely be kept separate. If we take any decisions, they are for enforcement purposes and, in principle, the executive power has the power, within the limits of the powers conferred on it, to make its own decisions as to whether it will enter into the cash reserve or, if necessary, to borrow. I think that it will also make a decision on the basis of pragmatic considerations as to what percentage the reserve will bear interest in a particular case, for example, and by what percentage it will be possible to borrow from the money market. We have delegated such decisions to executive power, and I think that is very normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U136	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U137	Thank you, good manager. It was as if you said that the EUR 30 million that would be allocated to the second ESM contribution could not have been raised by teachers. How do you explain that if that money didn't come from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U138	Thank you. There's a very simple and logical explanation. This is money taken from our reserves, which is diverted from the share capital of a particular fund in the same way as we direct money to the share capital of Eesti Energia or the share capital of the IMF. This is a one-off decision, which is not a cost, but a financial investment, from a national and accounting point of view. It's that simple in real life. If you want to propose a decision and increase salaries by means of national reserves, for example, you will have the opportunity. The question then is that then we will start to increase them without sources of cover and we will start to increase the country's deficit. Whether or not we have the right to do so without sources of cover is a separate question. In this case, if we take money from the reserve and transfer the share capital of another fund, we have, in accounting terms, created a financial investment at that point in time, i.e. from one asset it has gone into another asset.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U139	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At the beginning of the autumn session, the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, read to us the words that if people do not understand the ESM and other issues related to the European Union, it is the people who have not been able to explain them enough. If I now listen to the questions, they will continue to confuse state budget expenditure and financial investment, the allocation of financial resources. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, what do you think is the question of insufficient clarification or of not wanting to understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U141	Thank you. We have sailed a little farther than the topics discussed in the Commission, and I remember that a few days ago, Kadri Samson and I had a conversation before the end of the committee meeting on the subject, which should at the moment be silent, not to speak further, and at what point he might express his opinion. If you're asking my opinion, I'm gonna give it to you. I sincerely hope that the members of the Riigikogu who ask about this will not be ignorant. It has to be said that all our materials have been available both in the basic text of the draft text and in the explanatory memorandum, and I think it is not a question of ignorance; rather, it can be called rhetoric. I really hope that this is not ignorance. I'm sorry if that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U142	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U143	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It seems to me that you had a language glitch when you said that the opposition could propose that reserves be used, for example, as teachers' salaries. You certainly know that the opposition cannot make any proposals that undermine the budgetary balance. Is it true that the reserves of the Estonian state have decreased in the last year, only because of government decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U144	Thank you. That's a very good point. This is actually also an answer to the questions mentioned, i.e. we cannot put two things into one sin, namely the transfer of funds from reserves to possible share capital and spending. It is true that the Riigikogu does not have the right to increase costs here on the ground if it does not find additional types of income. We do not have that right, and I also tried to convey to you that we do not have such opportunities here. When it comes to reserves, the national reserves have decreased compared to the previous ones. I do not have any specific data at the moment, as the draft under discussion has not required such information to be passed on and discussed. But if you ask whether in recent periods the national reserves have decreased, yes, they have decreased. And more importantly, not only do we need to look at the national reserves, but we need to look at the symbiosis, i.e. the national reserves versus our loan volumes. After all, we can artificially hold up reserves and increase the loan burden by this amount or vice versa, take up our reserves and then borrow less. Here again, executive power has the opportunity to make the best decisions for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U145	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U146	Thank you. Good waitress! There was a question of financial investment. As a person of financial background, you can answer here. In the case of ordinary shares, everything is very simple because the shares have a market value and can also be realised at a certain point in time by obtaining a market value. What do you think, in the light of these financial investments, is it possible to realise this value and is it possible to obtain a nominal value for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U147	Thank you. Making this investment in the ESM does not really have the value or purpose of ordinary financial investments, even in private structures, where the main aim is to generate profits. If we are talking, for example, about Eesti Energia or some other state company managed by the Estonian state, where the aim may be to gain profit and to make possible future projects, whatever, then we can discuss this during the state budget procedure. In this case, it is not primarily a profit-making objective, but a guarantee of European financial stability, and that is the way to look at it. That is the main objective. I repeat, the state budget reflects the capital contributions to the ESM as a financing transaction and, more specifically, as an item, it will be the acquisition of a stake in an international organisation. In accounting, the transaction is also accounted for as a holding, i.e. not as an expense, but as a financial asset. The amounts of ESM's callable capital shall be a potential liability and shall be recognised as off-balance sheet liabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U148	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U149	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You speak as if it were a very good financial investment, which we should be very happy about. Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs also assessed the risk of financial investment? This year, Greece's economic growth in the second quarter stood at 6.2%, with the next year forecast for the Greek economic downturn of 4.4%. Today we have read that the Slovak Prime Minister is questioning the future existence of the euro zone. Have you assessed the risks of using Estonian taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U150	Thank you, Mr. Asker! You started your question by putting words in my mouth that I haven't spoken. It will be very difficult to discuss constructively with you. You started your question by telling you here how happy it must be to be able to make financial investments. No, I will tell you once again: we are together in Europe for good and for bad. This is now a so-called bad situation in which we have to come up with something. The good situation will be when we conclude another seven-year base of structural agreements, where we will get EUR 3 to 3.5 for every euro we give to Europe. If we give EUR 1 billion, we will get EUR 3 to 3.5 billion back. It's a good time, and it's money that no one wants back from us. These are our subsidies, European subsidies for farmers, roads, etc. It's a tough decision to make now, it's a bad time. This is the answer to the first part of your question. Now your key question: has the potential risk been assessed? On this subject we also had a debate today at first reading of the draft. And if you look at the ratification of the ESM decision at the end of August, the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision also set out the potential risks for the ESM Member States, the risk of losing money. Today, we have reiterated to some extent that the risk of losing all investment is very small for both Estonia and the other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U151	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U152	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It is clear that these transactions, which we are deciding on here today, will increase the pressure on the Treasury's reserves. In essence, we are convening cash into investment instruments, which of course have their own risks. As you mentioned, it may come back many times, but given the news of the media, it's not quite certain that our investment is so successful. Hence the question: does the Committee on Monetary Affairs intend to discuss the planning of the Treasury's reserves more broadly? What should be its principles? Perhaps there should be more buffer, and this should be seen a little more widely, not just in the context of the stability mechanism? Does the Ministry of Finance intend to discuss the design of the Treasury's reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U153	Thank you. The Finance Commission and the Ministry of Finance will stop at least once a year at the level of reserves and the changes in reserves during the year and will receive a full overview of this from the Minister of Finance. The Committee on Finance does not participate and does not have the right to take part in the decision on how and where specific investments should be made. It is, I understand, specific contracts with professionals in their field of expertise who make these possible financial investments. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs receives once a year a specific overview of what has taken place, where investments have been made, what the returns have been, and all such information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U154	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U155	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned that for every euro that Estonia puts into the European Union, 3.5 euros will come back from there. Would you clarify the calculation of how many euros Estonia will then put into the European Union and how many euros will it get back from the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U156	If we base the 2006 to 2013 Multiannual Financial Perspective (we will soon be talking about the financial perspective 2014 to 2020), the overall figures will say that during this period we have paid nearly EUR 1 billion for holdings in Europe, entered into various agreements and received 3.5 billion back according to a number of projects and agreements. Here comes the calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U157	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This activity is constantly mentioned as a financial investment, and some MPs point to how the President's speech has not been explained. We are also constantly talking about solidarity, that there must be solidarity in Europe in both bad and good. I have this question: if we assume that this investment will end at a loss, it will actually be a cost for the Estonian state, and will we only show solidarity as a state, or will we also show solidarity as ambassadors? Would you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, make such a financial investment, or must only the states do so? As individuals, are we not solidarity, we are only states?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U159	Thank you. I did not understand your question, in this sense, that it is only a transnational agreement, that there is no common fund open to be donated by private individuals to help those in need. In this sense, it is difficult to bring a parallel to your question. However, I would like to draw attention to this example, which we have spoken about here before: if your neighbour's house is on fire, the question is whether you are going to help him throw water on it or not. That's the question. We treat European countries as the European internal market, and that is what they are, not only in our approach, but also in reality. We have made certain commitments, and we are fulfilling these commitments today. As a private person, I'm sure you'll have a chance to contribute if you want. Then you just need to figure out a mechanism for how you can contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U160	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U161	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! The discussion that broke out with the previous question gave the impression that by participating in the ESM, we would get more back, were beautiful comparisons of 1 and 3.5. If Latvia does not participate in the ESM, will it not receive euro payments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U162	Look, Mr. Black, I didn't say we could get more back from the ESM. I said that we will get more back from the Structural Funds for 2006-2013. That was my answer. I didn't say anything different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U163	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm going to ask a very simple question by taking your answer. Today, so many reporters have asked us what we're going to do with the salary increase ahead of us. As a so-called private individual, would you be willing to make an ESM donation fund where we could donate our raise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U165	I have to admit that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not pay attention to this today and it is very difficult for me to start talking about this issue on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U166	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U167	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll continue with the Aadu Black question. Latvia does not participate in the ESM. Hasn't Latvia received any euro grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U168	Thank you. Latvia has certainly received euro support over time and is currently making a strong effort to allow them to enter the euro zone in 2014. The Monetary Commission made a two-day visit this spring to Latvian colleagues and also met with representatives of the Latvian Minister of Finance and the Latvian Central Bank. We received a very clear signal from all the parties and from the meetings that efforts are being made to get to the euro area. After all, the current situation or the background for the entry into the euro area is much worse, looking at the problems faced by several countries in the euro area than we did when we took this decision much earlier. So Latvia is working to be in the euro zone in 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U169	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U170	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I am still asking about this share capital, or capital contributions. If, in addition to the ESM 500, the loan volume increases further, plus 200 EFSF, the total loan volume will actually increase. You said in the morning session that it is possible that the capital contributions will be increased, and the Estonian state will have to make additional payments. The minister said they didn't have to be made. A representative of the Ministry also said so. Have you understood by now whether there might be a situation in the future where, in addition to 148 million, we will make further contributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U171	Thank you. It seems to me that you've put something together here, which, I imagine, you don't exactly understand. Our additional payments are summarised at EUR 150 million. It is divided into five sections and we currently have one fifth of the state budget, EUR 30 million according to the decision adopted last autumn. Today, we are expected to adopt a draft, which gives us the opportunity to add a second fifth. In the autumn of this year, we will process the budget for next year, and if we have dealt with it and it is suitable for all parties, we will add a third and fourth fifth, and in 2014, the last five fifth will come. I would add that, as long as the full share capital contribution has not been paid, the ESM has not been put to work under its maximum burden. It is for this reason that the finance ministers at their meeting this spring that speeded up the payment process; instead of the initial five years, they should be made within a period of 2.5 to 3 years in order to give a) market certainty and b) that the ESM should really be capitalised immediately in the event of any problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U172	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U173	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi is known as a boiling man, you are such an outcast and calmer. The opposition is complaining a lot here now, but the opposition is not united in all its opinions either. This is why I, seeing that I am perhaps the last questioner, ask you to tell the people of Estonia with three sentences something positive that the ESM brings us and what the Estonian person could feel when thinking about the ESM to calm down.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U174	Thank you. I'm sure there's a lot more than three of them. It is difficult for me to put it into three sentences, but in short, you could say that by making state contributions to ESM's share capital today, we are actually creating a firewall, and that word itself says what is meant to be. We're creating a firewall against possible problems with passing on to the next countries. Our current Estonian entrepreneurs are mostly in the European economic space, this is our internal market. Even if we do not now have so much direct relations with Greece, looking at our foreign trade balance, we have relations with Germany, and Germany, on the other hand, has relations with Greece. It is all so interconnected, the problems that Greece has faced in the past in Portugal, Ireland. We are not talking about Portugal and Ireland today, but I would remind you that these countries have benefited from the EFSF and fulfil the conditions that the EFSF placed on them. And the reason we're not talking about them is because these conditions are met and they're heading for the path where a normal country should be. This means that, in the end, international financial investors are already willing to provide direct aid to these countries for certain interest rates. Then perhaps we are creating financial stability now and, in fact, defending a stable market in Europe. I think it's a positive final message from me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U175	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U176	Thank you. Good waitress! Your last answer gave me something to think about for one more question. You were talking about a firewall. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, are you convinced that we ourselves will be on the right side of this firewall? After all, Estonia is such a small country that it is not up to us to remain in the euro area as a whole. If we ever need help, do we get help, we're on the right side of the firewall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U177	Thank you. That's a good question. We have actually addressed this issue here in one of our discussions before. The subject was basically that Europe has small and large. We reached the point where the ESM was created in the discussion. Someone raised the question that there is no coming to the aid of Estonia that we are such a marginal state. The second idea was that if the large countries of Spain, Italy, are facing the final problems, then again the ESM is too small to help them. After all, then, the question arises as to what this ESM is created for, how small it is for a large country and a small country is too marginal. At this point, I can rely on the words of the Minister of Finance, but I absolutely believe that this is the case. When the Minister for Finance answered this question, he said that all countries in Europe are important, including Cyprus, on which the debate is currently taking place. In Cyprus, loan aid may very likely be needed, and now the question is whether loan aid will then come from the EFSF, which is still operating, or from the ESM. In Europe, there is an understanding that this is the family they want to be with, and Estonia is one of the members of this family.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U178	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U179	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It has been mentioned a few times today that Mr President praised us from this remote area less than a month ago for giving the ESM a dobro during our summer session. At the same time, it was said that we should make the ESM clear to ourselves and to the people. I asked myself several times today whether this hearing today made the ESM clear to us. Did we make the ESM clear to the people in the sense that what it is, what this ESM is, and what dangers does it bring to us, our people and our country? I did not like this debate because the government is always trying to say that there is no danger, that a little money must be given, that it should be moved from one place to another, and that nothing will happen. In a way, it's right. I dare say, on the basis of my knowledge, that in the three-year financial perspective, the salary of any public employee will not rise or fall if we take this decision today. He will not rise or fall from it. I would have, in place of the Minister and also the chairman of the Commission, although, in a sense, he spoke of it, really pointed out this financial perspective over the three years that it means for the worst and best option. The worst case scenario is that the Estonian state must take out a loan. It's not like we're gonna miss any more or less than we're gonna miss dinner today. In fact, in the worst case, the loan burden of the Estonian state will increase to around 30 to 40% and life will go on. That is what we should have heard from the Minister, not that it means almost nothing, that is 30 million, and so on. These details are discussed between officials; they are discussed in the Commission. One question is smarter than the other, one question is dumber than the other. But what people would like to hear or what we can tell people is unfortunately not enough today for the last three or four hours. It should really be as Aivar asked: say something positive to people. What will really be after this document is signed, what are the risks and what setbacks may come in this regard? I didn't get much clarity about that. It was hoped that the setbacks would be small. But now, to see if we should sign or not. If I were in the coalition, I would vote for it because we are in the European Union, our Union needs to be protected, our money needs to be protected, and it is a firewall that will help to do so. If I am in opposition and hear the explanation that has come from here today, I cannot vote for it. I cannot vote in favour of this because it has not been made clear to myself what this EFSF is or what this ESM is. What he brings to us, to our country and to our people, we have not said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U180	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U181	It's not really hard, we have machines, there are people who can draw out all these things, both the worst and the better. There's no need to talk about what the worst option is. When the chairman of the committee and the minister arrive at a single figure as a result of the great debate that is being held in this Chamber, when it is signed, it is not a serious, constructive and professional attitude. Let that be said for the future. So what do I suggest we do? From this day on, you just have to learn a few lessons, because I think we'll be discussing the ESM here in the future. We'll make things better for ourselves, then we'll be better and more professional, and more importantly, we'll explain to our people what one step or another means. I don't think many of us can explain it well when we go home. I don't think a lot of people who listen to it or read it here today understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U182	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U183	Ladies and gentlemen, I think today has been quite an effective working day, and I had a lively debate with my groupmate Aivar Riisalu about whether an optimistic note should be given. I'd like to start with an optimistic note. I think we have all understood today how important it is that discussions on European aid mechanisms take place in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Because today we have received a number of answers to questions that so far floated in the air and that were either not answered or avoided. When we think about the morning session, the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, tried to spin and outwit in order not to state the new limit on Estonia's obligations, but the discussions have revealed that this ceiling could be 2.3 billion. That is, the ESM commitment of 1.3 billion spoken in August, plus a promise to keep up to half the amount of EFSF. As we remember, EFSF's full-volume guarantee for Estonia was 2 billion, so half the volume is 1 billion. So today's final vote will give Estonia a commitment of 2.3 billion. In some ways, our European policy seems to be that the government is more important than being, and the best example of this appearance is what happened with the title of the draft decision to be discussed. The Ministry had prepared a title and honestly said that it was an increase in the maximum loan volume. The title masters PR specialists found that the increase was not a good word for the loan volume, so it was re-programmed and now it is setting the maximum loan volume. The increase would have been clearer and more understandable, but the skilful selling of bad news certainly favours this word of setting. Another thing that has emerged from the discussions during the week: when it was said in the summer that the ESM would replace EFSF for Estonia, no one has now been able to say that the EFSF will be locked down. I would point out that while the EFSF is open, it also affects the debt burden of the Estonian state. Finally, I will also mention the reserves for a moment. After all, the reserves of the Estonian state were collected to be used in difficult times. As was already seen in the round of questions and answers, the opposition will never be able to propose the introduction of reserves, because it would undermine the balance of our budget. However, reserves can always be used by governments in difficult times. And so far, we have placed these national reserves where they can be retrieved if necessary. If we now make such a fierce financial transaction, which seems to be very pleasing to the political parties in the government, we will not be able to reach our reserves so easily from the ESM. So, broadly speaking, it is very good that the Riigikogu committed itself to discussing these topics and to discussing huge responsibilities for Estonia. I think that the full hall shows, until the end of the extraordinary sessions, that we are taking our task very seriously. And although the Centre Party Group has always supported that all these discussions and the increase in the credit line always reached the grand hall of the Riigikogu, we also supported it today, by making our contribution to meeting the quorum, we do not support the fact that Estonia is under such great obligations. We do not support the fact that, in a situation where there are very many vital areas in Estonia that need additional attention, these areas are not taken into consideration, but there is excessive zeal for paying in Europe the aid packages of the countries that have lent themselves to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U184	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We shall begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 286. Four amendments have been received. The first is from the lead committee, the second from the lead committee. The third amendment has been received from Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich, the position of the commission being disregarded. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U185	Can we vote on this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U186	You can do that if you have a wish. Since you asked if you could, I say yes, you can. Do you want it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U187	We would like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U188	Got it. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the third amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich. Please take a stand and vote. For 4 members of the Riigikogu, against 46, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich, the position of the commission being disregarded. Due to § 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this amendment is not to be voted on. Good fellows! With this, we have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee is also to put the draft to a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put the bill to the final vote on 286. Please take a stand and vote. By 52 against 27 members of the Riigikogu, there are no abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Putting the maximum loan volume of the European Stability Mechanism and making a second capital payment', has been adopted as a decision. The item is addressed. Good fellows, thank you. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 4.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-02_U189	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! Good guests! We will begin the second additional session of the Riigikogu, which will last until the agenda is exhausted. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: 1) the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, initiated on 2 October, is a commission on the environment; 2) the Government of the Republic. a The draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated on 2 October, and related amendments to other laws, is the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Vice-President of the Riigikogu has forwarded two enquiries to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and one inquiry to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 64 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 37. Since there are more in attendance than there is a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, which is now 65, the session of the Riigikogu is a quorum.
