ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U1	The second reading of the draft law amending the Order of Defence Forces Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I would like to ask my colleague Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft law amending the Order of Defence Forces Act 256 before the second reading at its meeting on 5 November and decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law be included for the second reading on the agenda of the current sitting of the Riigikogu and that the speaker be appointed as rapporteur. The only amendment to the draft was tabled by the National Defence Committee as the lead committee, approved by consensus and supported by the initiator of the draft amendment. The amendment was tabled on the recommendation of Aivar Engel, Head of the Adviser-Secretariat. The National Defence Committee, when proposing the amendment, was primarily based on the technical clarity of the norm and on the fact that a change in the title of the draft should be proposed as an amendment rather than as a technical amendment to the norm. In cooperation with the senior editor of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the draft also went through a linguistic proofreading, where the most important thing is the knowledge (if anyone listens to me) that from 1 April next year the word 'Defence Forces' will be used with a capital letter. At its meeting on 5 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the text of the second reading of the draft, the table of amendments and to submit an explanatory memorandum for the second reading. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of bill 256. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U3	Thank you very much, colleague. You have questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U4	Thank you, dear waitress. Why don't you explain why suddenly the word "guards" started to be written with a capital letter when it was written with a small letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U5	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U6	Thank you. It was a common name before, but now a political decision was made that the Defence Forces were one. The Defence Forces are an institution with its own structural units. In the case of a single institution, however, it is customary to start with a large star. But this amendment will be in accordance with the law, which will be in force in spring next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U7	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we look at this draft explanatory memorandum, it says that the defence forces will be used only at extreme need. However, it has not been explained what has actually been meant by this need. As a result, we would like to know what defines the extreme need for which the right to use the armed forces arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U8	Thank you. This is an international principle whereby military forces, or armed forces, are used in the event of all other possibilities being exhausted. The extreme need does not mean armaments, but also involves the involvement of technical means, logistical support, etc. But it's just being used in the last order, that's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U9	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, These long discussions will help you get new knowledge, surf the Internet and read any interesting information. For example, it became clear that there are three ways to use the armed forces to assist the police. Defence forces are basically used during peacetimes when there are disturbances and during wartimes when the police cannot cope or their work is associated with serious difficulties. Also, as a police force, dictatorships use it as a rule. If such a law comes, it would be interesting to know what we are preparing for: unrest, war or dictatorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U11	Thank you. I recommend surfing domestic sites. The use of domestic defence forces is regulated by the Emergency Act and by the Emergency Act, those blows where the defence forces can be used together with the right to use their forces. The current amendment, I drew down, concerns the involvement of the armed forces without the use of force, i.e. without the right to use direct coercion, which is a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U12	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U13	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! There has been a period of centralisation of different institutions in the country, but there has not been a very long practice and very much clarity so far to say whether centralisation has been the only right approach. Therefore, I would like to know your point of view: does the transfer of the Estonian contingent of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence to the direct command of the Commander of the Defence Forces not lead to excessive centralisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U14	Thank you. There was no such fear within the framework of what was discussed by the Commission. Rather, it is a logical move, as it is now under the command of the HQ and the Communication Battalion. Today, perhaps there is more bureaucracy than the solution proposed in this draft, where it becomes simpler and less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U15	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, the chairman of the committee! If possible, I would ask you to specify which operations the special operations unit of the Defence Forces intends to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U17	Thank you. Today we are talking specifically about the Afghanistan mission, and this unit is still taking into account the NATO context. This means that if, in the future, NATO international operations are to come, where it will be decided to be involved with the Special Operations Unit and the corresponding draft decision will be given our mandate, then this special Unit will also be involved within the framework of the NATO Special Operations Units.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U18	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! My question relates to a specific person, a conscript, if that is the way to put it. If a conscript is engaged in additional duties in accordance with the cases set out in the draft and his training period is therefore reduced, how will it be ensured that the level of training of a military officer is not affected by it? The solution to this issue needs to be known in advance. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U20	Thank you. It is a great dilemma, and it has been discussed for years, even though life has shaken its place. On the one hand, defence forces are rarely used and attempts are being made to take members of the Defence Forces away from their daily service in a very short period of time. On the other hand, it is a positive signal to civil society that the defence forces will be involved in solving real problems. I'm not talking about the use of force here, I'm talking about rescue operations and stuff like that. So this balance exists and all parties know, appreciate and accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U21	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, We remember the events that were a few years ago when we were fighting in the snow. In this context, I would like to ask in the framework of this draft the situations in which military technology can be used to assist the police in civilian operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U23	Thank you. This question gets a little out of the bill. If we're talking about snow and rescue operations with the Rescue Board, these things are in another law. This is where we are talking about search and rescue, or sea rescue, within the meaning of the Police and Border Guard Act. And in the case of sea rescue, we can talk about the involvement of military floating ships and helicopters in such cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U24	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Please tell me, as a result of which a circle of persons has been defined to whom the military police will provide protection and whether this circle may be extended under any exceptional circumstances. And if this circle can be extended, please specify to whom this right could be extended and what the legal basis would be for it to be associated with its law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U26	Thank you. When we talk about foreign citizens and high-ranking officers, there is a United Nations document of 14 December 1973 that obliges us to guarantee the security of these persons. As regards the length of this list, the possible extension, the Minister of Defence is indeed entitled to appoint a circle of persons to whom this protection may be extended for a certain period of time. An example of this is that the National Defence Commission went on a mission in Afghanistan and we were secured by the close defence team of the Estonian military police, who serves in Afghanistan. So the members of the National Defence Commission have also used this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U27	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! Indeed, I, too, have felt the protection of Estonian military police officers in a good way and I can give them full recognition afterwards, because I believe that these are genuine professionals. Similarly, this praise could be extended to all Estonian Defence Forces who serve both here and there on the border. Maybe you're lighting the hall from where our military police officers, who are professionals, get their training? And how long do they have this training, and what does it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U29	Thank you very much. Our key to success is our membership of NATO, which means we don't have to invent a bicycle. There is a NATO military police doctrine and other NATO basic documents, as well as the training programmes developed accordingly. On this side, quality is good enough. In the case of military police officers, they are professional defence personnel, not conscripts. The conscripts-military police are also being trained, but this is for our reserve army, not for the tasks we're talking about here. I dare say that, as far as we have talked in the Commission, and we have also seen when we visit them, this training is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U30	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I apologise in advance if my question is not professional enough, unlike Lauri Laas or Aivar Riisalus, I have not had such close contact with the Defence Forces. But my question directly concerns the search of civilians. Does the military police have the right to detain and search civilians in order to ensure the security of foreigners arriving in Estonia and other operations? I'm excited about this part. And if they are right, in this case, can we not, of course, talk about the violation of the principle of gender equality, the military police have been assembled with enough female military police officers, because men are not going to search women? Or is it different in a war situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U32	Thank you very much. As far as experience is concerned, you will suddenly be able to agree within the group that you will sometimes replace Mr Riisalu in the work of our National Defence Committee. That way, you'll have more experience. These functions are still the result of the military police's main task, i.e. specific to the protection of the person. I imagine that if someone with a belt comes near our dear guest, then clearly these tasks and operations must be carried out. But I would like to stress, once again, that training is a proper course of action for professionals, not conscripts. I don't see a critical moment here. Of course, however, the National Defence Committee is keeping an eye on all these things, and there is always a chance to question and make sure that everything is all right with its own eyes. After all, we have initiated an amendment to the Defence Service Act, which will enter into force next year, and as a result, all women will be welcome in the Defence Forces. It provides a very strong basis for the military police to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U33	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U34	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Military personnel, especially military personnel on mission and their social guarantees, have been talked about for a very long time, but so far it has not been specifically stated which social guarantees apply, for example, to a military police officer or his/her loved ones, if this military police officer is injured or even killed in the performance of his/her duties. Can you please tell me what these social guarantees are?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U35	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U36	Thank you. Since this is a draft amendment to the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces, these things are not here. They're in a whole different law. What a pleasure it is to note that it was this week that we had in the Commission a veteran policy document that received the unanimous support of the Commission. Next week, I hope it's in the government. There will also be additional social guarantees for those military personnel performing some of our missions in remote crisis zones. But all of this is really the subject of another law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U37	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the bill states that the Defence Forces can decide for themselves whether or not they are going to help the police. I would therefore like to know what the rights of the Defence Forces are to refuse to perform police duties in the absence of resources or opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U38	Please, Mr Lenk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U39	Thank you. Once again, this draft concerns the involvement of the Defence Forces without the right to use force and direct coercion, which is, for the most part, logistical support. This is, as a rule, an agreement between two authorities. When we are talking about complex situations and security, we are talking about either the Emergency Act or the Emergency Act. There's a second set of rules, based on the government's decision with the President's consent, and there's no asking much for permission from the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I come back to my last question. I really heard for the first time today that the Defence Forces will be written with a capital letter. I understand that this is not really very important, it is a formally important change. But when I draw parallels and watch us write the Riigikogu, in the media we write it emphatically with a small initial letter, even though the Riigikogu is a unique expression in the world. So I don't understand why we're writing the Defence Forces with a big letter from now on, and the Riigikogu stays with a small letter. I don't know if you discussed this. It's kind of weird for me, I know Estonian more or less well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U41	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U42	Thank you very much. Looking at the time we're having this discussion with you here, I'm also thinking that we could be with the big star.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, It's kind of weird to hear you talk about involving the militia without using force. The militia is the kind of structure that needs to show its strength. The Defence Forces were created for this purpose and it would be hard to imagine that they would act like nuns in a monastery. Then it wouldn't be the Defence Forces. But that's it. I have a specific question. Here is § 3 additional paragraph 3: 'The procedure for the involvement of the Defence Forces in this section [... ] is established by the Government of the Republic by regulation. " Are there any criteria when he can do so, to what extent, and for how long? Or is it an entirely arbitrary matter, and such a regulation could be brought about by an inadequate situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U44	Thank you. Again, when we are talking about these functions, I have just mentioned above, which will require aid, for example, on sea rescues, I do not believe that the Defence Forces will show their strength. Rather, they need their resources, their techniques. These are the time-critical places. The Commission's discussions also did not see the need for the President's consent and different procedures to be taken into account. Such solutions to problems are reasonable in my opinion, and believe me, the Defence Forces can provide support in Estonian society in the performance of various functions without using force. For example, when the euro was dispersed, where armored transporters were involved, no one was threatened by force, as I recall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U45	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, the chairman of the committee! I had a question about the one and only amendment. This amendment is made in relation to the title and is quite substantive, practically adding another amendment to the law. In the beginning there was a "law on the organisation of the Defence Forces," and now there was a law amending the law on the implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act. This is an amendment made by the Commission. Can you explain why this was not the title of the original draft submitted by the Ministry? Or did the substance of the bill change so much that they were forced to change the title so seriously, to supplement it with another law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U47	Thank you. There are many new laws behind this that we have been able to adopt here. For example, the Civil Service Act has lost the term 'public servant', and so we have also developed the need to make improvements in national defence laws, i.e. to introduce the term'service place' instead of a civil servant. It does not contain a very large political decision, but we considered it reasonable to clarify the title in terms of clarity. We did not see it as a risk that this would be a very substantive amendment to another law. This, in turn, is due to an amendment to the Law on the organisation of the Defence Forces in one section, where we also adjust terminology in the light of the new Public Service Act. These laws should become linguistically uniform in conjunction. If you want very detailed information, you can contact Aivar Engel, the head of our committee's secretariat. He's probably better able to surf this concept in the world than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U48	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U49	Thank you, good manager. A good committee chairman, a good colleague. Whenever it comes to the use of the armed forces in the exercise of their civil duties, or police tasks, with the concordance that this without the right to use the force, the emotion immediately arises, taking into account the recent history of society, that now the military will be used against its people, or probably not the end of what this law means. Would you be so kind as to list (our verbatim is certainly quite interesting material in this matter for the public and the press) the police tasks that the defence forces are actually carrying out within the framework of this law, so that we can make sure that there is obviously no rioting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U50	Thank you. Again, these tasks are divided into three laws when we talk about the use of force. I will rather read out the points in the Emergency Act, which show that issues that raise questions are regulated in another law. Functions such as traffic management during emergency situations and security in the emergency area, and all related to the prevention and prevention of terrorist offences, action to combat the intrusion into the state or local government's office, action against attacks aimed at the life and health of an internationally protected person, action against areas with diplomatic immunity, the building and space invasion, the prevention or prevention of damage to objects at high risk of attack, the temporary restriction or suspension of the crossing of state borders, all of which are regulated by § 31 of the Emergency Act. It also says that this can only be decided by order with the consent of the President of the Republic. This point in the draft regulation regulates activities which do not involve force or direct coercion, by means of the examples given above. These activities are mainly based on the use of specific techniques used by the Defence Forces, such as floating equipment, helicopters and armored vehicles (not in direct contact with people or in the use of force), rather than logistical tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U51	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the National Defence Commission! Fortunately, there are very few major fires in forest areas in Estonia, but I would still like to know from you how the use of military personnel and technology in the event of natural disasters, such as forest fires, is ensured. Whose budget will cover these expenditures?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U53	Thank you. Unfortunately, once again, we are going out of the subject of this draft, because, within the meaning of this draft, rescue work is a police and border guard industry, i.e. it is sea rescue. When we're talking about rescue and other rescues related to a forest fire, I'm referring to § 31 of the Emergency Act, where I listed the points of use of force for you. It also includes paragraph 1 (1) - rescue and emergency work. The procedure for the use of the Defence Forces for the performance of these tasks shall be established by the Government of the Republic by means of a regulation which also describes the arrangements for bearing the costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U54	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U55	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Chairman of the National Defence Commission, thank you very much for the relatively short but very expert answers to our questions. The explanatory memorandum to the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces and the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Services Act states that the Defence Forces will be used if the police are unable to carry out their task in time and there is no other way to carry out their task. Does the wording in the explanatory memorandum refer to a situation where the number of our police officers and their equipment do not meet Estonia's needs to ensure internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U56	Thank you. No, this wording does not refer to this; it corresponds to the Estonian translation of the international criterion. In English, this last resource, or internationally, is the last source of equipment, technology, and people, as a rule. It's a statement of this criterion, not a demonstration of police inability.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U57	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U58	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! Here, some of the previous questioners have also touched on the implementation of the military police outside Estonia, i.e. on missions. You mentioned the Afghanistan mission and said that the Riigikogu will decide on the mandate of the activities there (including the military police). My question remains to be seen. If the Riigikogu decides, for example, that the military mission in Afghanistan will be terminated in 2014, then the task of ensuring the security of civilians remains with us. So how can the military police continue there? Is it possible to give an alternative mandate if we complete a big mission there? What solution does the National Defence Committee see here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U59	Thank you. The answer is also visible. Right now, we're in the process of completing the mission as we speak, which means that our temporary agent will be secured by a security company, and the military police will probably come home as the first unit. As regards visits to the National Defence Committee, for example, if we decide to go next and next year, the military police will probably go from here with the so-called VIP or the delegation and will come back together. He will be based in Estonia, not Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U60	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! I haven't had much contact with the Defence Forces, I don't know if, fortunately or unfortunately, I couldn't even recognize a military police officer, but the subject is quite interesting. If additional tasks are assigned to the military police, will the corresponding staff involved in these tasks be increased? If it is not increased, it will appear deceiving that until now the resources of the military police were not fully used and there were hidden reserves. And at all, what are the current numbers of military police personnel specifically involved in the protection of persons, how has this changed over the years and how will it change in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U62	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U63	Thank you. I'll answer your half-empty glass question with a half-full glass answer. This bill provides an opportunity to use the resources of the military police even more effectively. What is the size of the military police that's inside it? It's not the subject of this bill again. But if you're really interested, I want you to come to the National Defence Commission after the hearing. We can definitely track down this data and transmit it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! The technique is known to be such a bad thing that it takes, breaks sometimes, and parts aren't very cheap either. The rarer the machine is, the more expensive the parts are. So here's the question: if the defense forces go to the aid of civilians, but some kind of machine dies at the time, breaks down, then who's finally gonna pay the cost? Are they not cleverly rolled on the shoulders of the Defence Forces, or is it still that whoever orders the music costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U65	Thank you. The end of this question was quite close to the truth, or everything depends on the situation. But my personal experience in my previous post was such that at the end of all operations, expenses were taken together, a budget was presented, and losses were usually covered from the government reserve fund. So whoever orders the music, who is the leader of the event, is also directly responsible for making up for these expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U66	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum shows that instead of the Estonian contingent of the Cyber Defence Competence Centre in the structure of the Staff and Communications Battalion, a new structure unit of the Defence Forces will be created directly under the control of the Estonian contingent of the NATO Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre. Hence the question: will such a structural change, the creation of the Estonian contingent of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation, save money, or will more money be needed for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U68	Thank you. There is no need for more money for this, rather it will save our staff and communication battalion and give him the opportunity to deal with his own affairs. Currently, they also have an additional burden of handling the cyber defence contingent and getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U69	Please, Mr Velman, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U70	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! In the media, much was said when a Polish plane crashed into Lake Ülemiste and was dragged away with heavy military equipment. How is the use of military technology currently regulated for civil purposes? For example, in such a case where, in a civil situation, no heavy equipment other than that belonging to the armed forces can be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U71	Thank you. It is divided in the civilian world between the authorities that are involved in this matter, i.e. mainly between the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, each having their own cooperation arrangements with the Defence Forces. Depending on the accident or need for assistance, cooperation has been agreed upon. Today, it works better than it did years ago when not everything really went so smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U72	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U73	Thank you, Madam President. President of the National Defence Commission, I also thank you for your meaningful answers. And I think you're a person who probably knows the subject pretty well. The explanatory memorandum to the bill states that the military police have dealt with the protection of civilians and repeatedly participated in ensuring the security of foreign guests arriving in Estonia. If neither the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces nor other legislation so far provided for the defence of civilians, what was the basis for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U74	Thank you. This amendment now gives us the right to perform this function in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U75	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I agree that it would make sense that in Estonia the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Forces would not duplicate their heavy equipment. However, it is not possible to know more about this bill when this heavy equipment, which is in the hands of the Defence Forces, can be used for civilian purposes to assist the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U77	Thank you. I repeat these key points that I have already pointed out here: search and rescue work and the organisation of the detection and eradication of marine pollution in the inland and territorial sea, the exclusive economic zone, Lake Peipsi, Lake Lämmi and Pihkva and other border water bodies; search on land in the event of an accident; the organisation of matters in the field of border guards; the prevention, identification, exclusion and elimination of public policy violations, where this task is not the responsibility of another administrative body under law or where the competent administrative authority cannot carry out this task in good time. These are the main areas. I would point out that the defence forces do not have the right to use force, i.e. their support can be used in terms of logistical function.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U78	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U79	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague! Basically, we have had a very busy last year in the National Defence Committee. We have dealt with the Defence Service Act, we currently have a full text of the Defence League Act. This specific law, the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces and the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act, has somehow been broken apart from our 'fundamental laws'. Where, at the same time, did it become necessary to review these civil functions relatively quickly in the law? I understand the subject of the Special Operations Group very well, but it is precisely a matter of emphasising the civilian side separately, and so suddenly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U80	Thank you. One of the reasons for this need is that the Police and Border Guard Board also has functions that need to be performed without the use of force, as I have just listed above (rescue and search), as border guards and police have joined. These tasks were not described in the Rescue Act and were now to be introduced into the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces. These were mentioned in the Police and Border Guard Act, but it was also considered appropriate to supplement the law on the organisation of the defence forces in the field of defence, i.e. to provide the defence forces with the sections of their law, on which they can support the Police and Border Guard Board (the subject of this draft) or the Rescue Board (the subject of the Emergency Act).
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U81	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the National Defence Commission! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the amendment will allow the use of military technology to assist the police. Could you give examples of the type of technology that the Defence Forces could use to help the regular police?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U83	Thank you. The answer lies in the decision of years ago, by which the police joined the border guard, with their functions as well. The common name is the police. In most cases, we are talking about the functions of the former border guard, the search for sea rescues and the search for land in the event of air accidents. In the case of the police, heavy equipment is probably an issue when we are talking about an accident or opening up a road if it remains a police function, not a rescue function. An example of a special operation is the distribution of euros using armoured military equipment, as a large amount of such equipment was needed in a short period of time. These are the examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U84	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Within the framework of this draft, we are talking about providing the police with a legal basis for using the Defence Forces to carry out police duties. However, there is a need to analyse how it is regulated in other countries. And here's my question: how is the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of police duties regulated in our neighbouring countries, Finland and Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U86	Thank you very much. The National Defence Committee did not address this issue in its draft. But from my own wisdom I repeat to you: in Estonia, the use of the Defence Forces in the performance of police duties is found in the Emergency Act and the Emergency Act. I can also give an article, that is, § 31 of the Emergency Act. There you will find the principles of using the Defence Forces with the right to use force and how it is organised. As regards the implementation of the Defence Forces without the right to use force and without the right to use direct coercion, this is what we will find here in the draft. These three laws are, in the Commission's view, now exhaustively governing the rules governing the use of defence forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U87	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U88	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! As a person who is not familiar with the Defence Forces on a daily basis, I know more or less about the rights of ordinary police to ensure the security of foreign visitors. However, I would like to know the differences between the military police in this area and the ordinary police.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U89	Thank you. There's no big difference. The military police are carrying out the protection of the person on similar bases and tactics as the police's personal protection office. When we talk about protecting important and honorable guests, there is a rule of keeping a low profile and disturbing outsiders as little as possible. Perhaps the military police are involved, or will be involved, in the performance of this function on the same principles as the civilian police.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U90	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is precisely on the basis of the answer given to the previous question that I would like to ask you. Who determines the involvement of the military police in protecting the important foreign guests who are arriving to us? And secondly, § 49 states that the military police may detain a person and hand him over to the police immediately. 'Unopened' is such a dubious dimension: it can be a moment, but also a longer time, probably depends on the situation. What is the longest time in the sense of "unsatisfied"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U92	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is the language of Estonian lawmaking. 'Unopened surrender' is not a first discovery here, we find this expression in very different laws. This is the best that the Estonian legislator has been able to come up with in order to empower someone to perform their function as effectively as possible, while at the same time restoring the normal situation as quickly as possible, by handing the infringer over to the police. Indeed, this wording is used on a very large number of occasions. This opportunity must be given to the military police, because if we are imagining a real situation, a quick approach of a person with such a plentiful drought to our dear guest, it is clear to the day that we must react quickly and not start calling the police first.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U93	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U94	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr President of the Commission, first of all, a great deal of recognition for your very substantive answers. If we look at this bill, you have responded repeatedly today, referring to various aspects of the military police work. How do you assess the technical equipment of the military police? Is it still necessary to work on this draft, or do you regard the supply as relatively good?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U95	The grade'relatively good' is probably the most correct use of words, but of course you can develop everything, improve it, make it more beautiful. However, I do want to praise the people who carry this function on the basis of the experience gained in the Afghanistan mission. They're very dedicated men, they're active and they know their business very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U96	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! When we talk about military technology and the tasks of the Defence Forces in assisting the police, I would like a more detailed overview of the techniques that the Defence Forces can use to carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U98	Thank you, good friend! I hope that you will come by the committee after the hearing and that our head of secretariat will give you an exhaustive list, or we will send the question to the Ministry of Defence and we will expect a specific answer if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U99	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U100	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for interpreting the word 'next'. I also believe that everything is clear in the case of the immediate capture of a citizens with a drought. The transfer is a little different, i.e. how long does it take to mean "without delay." But you missed the first half of the question I asked. I ask again: in the case of foreign visitors (foreign visitors from neighbouring countries or some specially important arrivals in Estonia) what level are military police used?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U101	Thank you. I repeat, this is an international set of rules. The answer to this question is found in the United Nations Convention of 14 December 1973, which gives a description of the so-called important figures and gives us, as the host country, an obligation to ensure the security of these persons. It's all there. Furthermore, the Minister of Defence has the right to extend this list in specific circumstances, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U102	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U103	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! I recall what has happened here in the Riigikogu before under the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces. It was adopted in 2008 during the previous term, after which it was to be improved four times by the previous term. Do you already see that, after the adoption of this law, there are new places in this law that need to be changed? I ask this because I believe that the Estonian Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, has said that several basic laws need to be updated. Will the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces be updated, updated and no longer relevant to this issue? Or are you already seeing the next steps to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U104	Thank you. In fact, I see it because we have made a firm commitment to starting the drafting and new writing of the Peace Time National Defence Act and the War Age National Defence Act next year. There are likely to be moments in it, which would require further improvement of the law on the order of the armed forces. Unfortunately, this is the way of life in Estonia, that laws sometimes come to us in illogical order. In fact, we have needed this one and a common law on national defence for decades, but since he is coming to us in line, as he is coming, we must return to the law on the organisation of the defence forces and, you know, maybe also to the law on the military service. But I don't think it's a tragedy. The current legislative process has shown that we have still been able to maintain quality, including for all changes. Everything we have done has moved things forward and improved national defence legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U105	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U106	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! I am glad to hear that you are basically satisfied with this work, that the drafts are getting better and better. I guess it makes sense that at this stage of our independence, we might be able to get to 'common laws' or even codes. I have a question of taking the Special Forces battalion as a separate structural unit of the Defence Forces under the immediate command of the Commander of the Defence Forces. Does this increase the composition of special operations of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U107	Thank you. This is, in a sense, an analogy when we were talking here about the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation. The sub-unit you've designated is currently in the presence of a reconnaissance battalion. Their functions, however, are different, which means that the intelligence battalion is now given a clearer task of dealing with its own affairs, and the special operations unit is brought out as a separate structural unit from the reconnaissance battalion, as has been done in many countries. NATO countries have this rule. It's not a written rule, but it's just how it works. So the change does not bring any improvements in this respect, but it does lead to the need for a budget. It is a question of quality, of course, that training, equipment and technology must be improved to achieve this, and that is a constant need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U108	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Lauri Laas, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a delightful fact that so much passion, substantive questions and substantive answers come with the draft. As you can see on the screen, there are a lot of people besides me who want to talk. By quoting the words of the classics, or to say the words of Rein Lang, I think we are dealing with a very good draft or, if not very good, at least a rather good draft. In particular, if this draft becomes a law, certain inconsistencies that have existed so far will be eliminated. After all, we've all seen in the city pictures the military police machines in front of and behind the column of high DOD guest cars. According to the current legislation, the Defence Forces can only be used to assist the police in certain cases by a decision of the Government of the Republic, subject to the consent of the President of the Republic. It was not directly concerned with ensuring the security of foreign guests, but finally the rights of the military police in the role of foreign visitors as a security guard are regulated by law and legally clear. Of course, it is regrettable that when the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces was completed not long ago in the Ministry of Defence, someone in the ministry missed such an important moment in connection with the duties of the military police. But in any case, it's better late than never, and it's nice that the role of the military police can finally be properly established in legal terms. This correction will certainly benefit the military police, who will be given a clear legal framework and certainty to carry out their duties. The military police are also worth it because they have so far shown themselves to be the best. I can't recall any incidents involving the work of military police officers either in the security of foreign guests or in other tasks. There is also reason to give good credit to Estonian military police and to thank the members of the National Defence Committee who have visited foreign visits in crisis areas. While in Estonia military police officers offer protection to foreign visitors arriving in our country, for example, during the last visit to Afghanistan, members of the National Defence Commission were secured by our own military police officers. The same draft gives the Defence Forces the right to participate in police tasks and I would stress that this is without the right to exercise force. Although there are still no legal cases where the police can turn to the Defence Forces to ask for assistance, the practice shows that such situations have actually occurred. Frequently, there are situations where the Defence Forces have the technology that the police would need to perform a task. There are also suitably trained people who can walk around with this technique. This draft provides for a more flexible use of defence forces in such cases. As the involvement of the Defence Forces in the exercise of police functions is provided for without the right to exercise force, the decision to provide assistance at a high political level is no longer necessary. The decision to grant the aid may be taken by the defence forces themselves when assessing their own resources. This moment is very important, as the main task of the Defence Forces, which is to ensure national security, must certainly not be affected in connection with the performance of remote tasks. It is expected that the Defence Forces themselves will be best placed to assess their own resources and decide whether they will be able to participate in the ancillary task without compromising national defence capabilities. It is certainly important to note that the defence forces are used only for extreme needs. For example, in a situation where, for whatever reason, the police cannot carry out their task on time and there is no other way to carry out the task. This innovation will certainly lead to a reduction in public spending. In the case of a small country, it would indeed be an excessive luxury to duplicate a fleet of machinery which may not be needed very often. Certainly, a more flexible and operational response from now on will contribute to increasing the security of all of us in the use of military technology and human power in specific cases. However, it must certainly be borne in mind here that the State must reimburse the defence forces for the additional costs incurred in carrying out their duties. The content of the amendment contained in the last draft is that instead of the Estonian contingent of the Cyber Defence Competence Centre in the structure of the staff and communication battalion, a new structure unit of the Defence Forces will be created directly under the command of the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Estonian contingent of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation, which will make the structure of the Defence Forces simpler and more transparent. The establishment of a new structural unit under the direct command of the Commander of the Defence Forces will ensure the shortest possible, clear and operational chain of command and effective operational supervision. The planning of the salary and mission expenses of the Estonian contingent will take place in a more transparent and targeted way. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, placing Estonia's contingent under the direct command of the Commander of the Defence Forces would be a sensible step, given the status of the Centre as an international military headquarters and the political visibility it entails. It is not common for drafts coming from the government to benefit the Estonian people. However, it is more common that the drafts coming from the offices of ministers to the Riigikogu are accompanied by price increases, uncertainty and ignorance for people. Fortunately, however, the government has had a common sense and a sense of responsibility, at least in the field of defence, where, as you know, it is simply not enough to pick on everyone involved. The Riigikogu National Defence Committee also added its own addition to the draft, with which it became even better. So I think it is worth supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U110	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U111	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to be so naive that I can believe what was on the speaker's desk, believe what's being said here. Unfortunately, my certain life experience doesn't allow that. A few years ago, I think it was in 2009, the chairman of the National Defence Commission, Mr Raidma, said that the withdrawal of Estonian soldiers from Afghanistan would not be an exit if we did not want the problems there to reach Europe. Yes, we do not want these problems to get here, but in fact, if we put accents in place, the situation is that the biggest problem Afghanistan is bringing to the world is drugs. According to the United Nations, the Taliban produced 4565 tons of opium in 1999. In 2000, powerful international organisations imposed, the Taliban banned the cultivation of drug plants, and there was a huge, unprecedented drought in Afghanistan in 2000. As a result, only 185 tons of opium were produced in 2001, when the war began. That's a great result. However, for the following years: 2002 2700 tonnes, 2003 3400 tonnes, 2004 4200 tonnes, the same amount in 2005, a sharp increase of 8200 tonnes in 2007, slightly less in the following year, and 6900 tonnes in 2009 even less (depending on the weather). So this fundamental problem, which kills tens of thousands of people in the world every year, has not been solved. What's there to talk about? There is no faith in even doing tasks that sound noble. This was the government's decision in 2007, when it was also given the task of fighting corruption, but it set clear limits where they can and must fight it and where they must find corruption. It was just political harassment that started. There's no other way to call it. I don't know if the kapo is even capable of solving its core tasks right now. I have this feeling that they're so heavily involved in this propaganda war that everything else goes past them. How can we believe in someone when the most honest and respectable people who have always talked about other political parties, how they should improve themselves and behave honestly, use the same state money as their own propaganda? What I think at all is that when there was talk here about some unrest in peacetime, which, of course, seems to us to be the greatest threat in this bill, the answer was that it was always sea rescue operations, extinguishing forest fires, something like that, but these are not police operations. It's a savior's job. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U112	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U113	There's every way to do that. The truth is, there's a theory, I realize there's no science back here. There aren't enough cops and they're bringing in the militia. There are three main conditions for this. One is wartime, but as I understand it, we have no such threat of war that these additional conditions should provide. Besides, when wartime comes, everyone's gonna act on their best understanding. We have this kind of police state, more or less, but I think there's still some time before the dictatorship. So it turns out that all of this is necessary to use the armed forces during the peacetime. In 2007, the police did their best. But, as you remember, the policemen who came to Tallinn took their name tags off their chests, it was allowed for them. There was no great wish, and those who were brought from Ida-Viru County were told that redundancies would come, that those who went to Tallinn would, like indulgence, escape future redundancies. In fact, after many of them were still laid off and fired from the police so that their word was not kept. If this goes on, there are fewer and fewer police officers every year, there will be a situation where the people are already getting upset with some charter, are willing to come out on the street, have some meetings, have some protests. There's a pretty close-up situation where it's getting massive. Speaking of the arrogant government that everyone is now doing, headed by the president, what is this drug that will help this arrogant government to maintain its power when the people begin to protest? Only the armed forces, they don't expect the police any more. I believe that some parts of this draft are perhaps needed, as far as special forces are concerned, etc. But § 3 and its additions are, in my opinion, very dangerous things for democracy. For whom and for what is it prepared? Time will show, or we pray to God, that we have no chance of seeing it. In any case, it is impossible to support this bill in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U114	Thank you. I ask Viktor Vassilyev of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U115	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, About three hours ago, when I was talking about this remote, I was told that I spoke too loudly. It was examined whether the volume could be adjusted or not. It's not a disco, it's not a mixer. At the same time, after meeting me in the hallway, I received a couple of delegates who quite resented me for saying that my loud - voice speech had awakened them in their offices. You see, everything in this world has a reason to be certain! In this case, the reason is that if I don't sleep, why do they have to sleep? We don't get paid to sleep, we get paid to talk. As has been said, all things in the world are happening for certain reasons, and this bill probably also has its reasons. On the one hand, it is quite obvious that the police are weak. There's been a concentration, there's not enough resources, and it's gone so far that in Viljandi, the police are just getting their asses kicked. The latest news was from Buthale that there were gangs out there, terrorizing the population, but there's no help from anywhere. The Defence Forces will probably be the one to look at because they have training, they have technology, they're used to obeying orders, just give the order. We're being told here that the militia will be used without force. For some reason, the whole of the previous discussion in the round of questions focused more on technology. In my opinion, the defence forces not only mean technology, it means both technical and human resources. It's not just a piece of iron without a human being going anywhere, it's not a bang. And as far as I'm concerned, if, for the sake of the Rescue Board or me, even in the performance of ambulance duties, some kind of technique was needed, then it was very nicely caught. They probably knew where to call, and that technique came in. Do you need to change the law now? Looks like the goals are still a little different. If you look at the time we live with you, we have often been told that the Estonian people are such a modest, modest, not making a loud voice and not going on the streets, but he has come. Even decent, polite people like teachers have conquered the parliamentary building once. A week and one day ago, there was a demonstration in front of Toompea Castle, the tents were outside. I almost said 'today', but it was yesterday when I was here, I don't know exactly how much, but Delfi wrote that about five hundred people. When I went out there to see them, I didn't count them. By the way, I went out to see them. Raise your hand to the one who walked! Not everyone dares to do that. They asked me, too, if you had the guts, if you weren't scared. But what's there to be afraid of? Those people were out there because of completely reasonable things. They demanded that the increase in electricity prices be stopped. They were talking about pensions being small, and they were talking about subsidies that were reasonable. And if you talk to people rationally, people won't hurt you. If there is such a connection that the people are on the streets and we adopt a law that allows the use of defence forces without force, then it is suspicious. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U116	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U117	Three minutes is so short, you don't tell me everything, but it's okay, let's try to make it work. What does "no force" mean? Take, for example, the situation that crazed-eyed crowds of coalition-minded people, who are insane with propaganda, gather in front of Tallinn City Government and have the posters 'Edgar, come out! ', 'Freedom at the Forest Cemetery! ' ' or the like. After all, this is the situation we were told about here: the defence forces can be used to secure the buildings of municipalities and public authorities, without exerting force. And then they bring out some heavy, big, ugly military machine, armor or whatever, and put men in a row with their helmets on their eyes, and the eyes of good soldiers staring at the people under their helmets. So is this "no use of force"? We have seen from several channels how this goes on: the line of men stands, and then somebody in the crowd takes on some not-so-legal substances or is not a psychically stable person, stone, bottle, etc. and throws it at the line of men. I guess men have to protect themselves, and who knows what this is gonna end up with? When forces are brought out and demonstrated, is it the use of force or is it not? When a crook comes to me on the street and says I'm a crook, look what I'm like, I got tattoos all over it, and the drought's jammed, but I don't use force. What is that? Don't I get scared of that? That's kind of what it looks like, it's not using any force. When you look at the public gatherings that have taken place in front of the parliament, before the Riigikogu, what happened here last night, many people probably looked out the window, but didn't dare go out. And even if they had said something, when they paraphrased Marie Antoinette, they would have asked what they were asking about, what they were talking about, that they didn't have electricity, watch TV in fart light. Bringing this draft before the Riigikogu at this very moment is a demonstration of power without the use of force. That's exactly what it looks like. And, you know, I have enough life experience to tell you that everything is actually exactly what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U118	Thank you. Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U119	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to see so many of you are gathered here. We have before us an extremely strange draft concerning the Defence Forces. After all, the Defence Forces could easily have joined the Defence Police. But we are now going to put the militia at the disposal of the police to carry out their duties. In my opinion, the police have completely different functions than the military. If a policeman is rather a man of paperwork, who must also know the law and be able to make fair and human decisions, then soldiers are taught to do so in the field. It has nothing in common with paperwork, human rights or a friendly attitude. A soldier's been trained to kill. Now maybe we want the soldiers to start putting us in order in this country. Well, I don't know... I think we're all so old here that we remember those times when the inside troops were used in another country. If necessary, the men were put on a bus and taken where they needed to and were able to do it. But this society was not democratic. At the same time, it must also be understood that if the police are no longer able to carry out their duties, someone must be sent to the police. Of course the army, that's the first thought. Another idea might be if there are no soldiers left and they cannot ensure order, then next we will take the nail technicians, and then the pensioners, because they will live the longest. Pretty much, I guess, it's still not right to solve these things. Looking at the truth, there's no money. Apparently, the country is slim and I don't know where and what kind of advertising movies the money's been wasted on, so there's not enough for the police and law enforcement. What are we talking about here, law enforcement? There will be no money for health care, school food, children, soon no one. If this is the situation, then someone really needs to protect order. Okay, I'll think about it. I guess I'm just gonna have to agree that someone has to. Imagine the situation in Viljandi, where only ten young people in Viljandi who are partying and overzealous take power away from the police. With this law, we now give the police the right to engage in the military. And the right thing is, if the police don't make it in Viljandi, let the army come in with tanks, land-to-air missiles. They're helping. The army is still capable. If no one else is capable, I have to support it, there's nothing to do. There is, of course, another concern about supporting this bill. The government has awfully tangled up with all kinds of agencies, the organization of the school network, and no matter what name it's been done. The police have suffered many times under the same kind of renewal, reformulation and rethink. The police have joined the border guards and customs and somebody else. Anyway, I know that... If I may, I'll ask for three more minutes, because I didn't finish my thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U120	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U121	In short, with this transformation, we have now come so far that border guards are making traffic penalties, border guards are organizing our lives and our affairs. It's really weird, but what to do if there's no other way. Well, let it be, then, it's gotta be! I guess the army's supposed to do the police work. It's good if he does the firemen's work, maybe he can handle the doctors' work, but maybe he can handle the trial. During the last great war, the Troikas drove around, made a decision, and carried it out on the ground. Looks like the law could go that way. Of course, it's a terrible pity, but what to do is a lack of money. That's how far we've come by thin-slicing, wiping, wiping and redecorating our country. It's a bit of a crippled feeling to support this bill, but I understand our discussion partners. I understand their trouble and their trouble. I understand the deprivation that prevails both in the country and on their table, and I come to help them. I will probably support this bill. Why? It's not a very good bill, but with this money, this company in this country can't be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U122	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved by a remote control to come here with a few motives. One of them was that we had a conversation with the president of the Riigikogu before, and he thought that Black, you couldn't say anything about this bill anyway. The second point is that the main focus here is on one aspect of the bill, i.e. the matter of the military police. You know, this bill is wider, and there are a number of moments that make you think about it, and if you want to do not repeat what has been said here many times, you may want to think about it from a historical point of view. I'm fascinated by the cyber defence issues on this bill. This is the kind of part of the defence force's activities where all contributions are placed on intelligence, education and knowledge. I like cyber defence and the emphasis on this wisdom especially because it has captured the traditional traditions typical of our area. I am not even going to talk about the Estonian War of Independence. You have all heard about this, and also about how brave Estonian officers were and how well educated they were, compared to some other countries. After all, the officer's staff was mainly composed of school teachers in the municipality. This wisdom has been a major force in our field of warfare for centuries. I think maybe a few of you have heard that already during the Northern War, thanks to their abilities, the first Estonian officers grew up. One of the most famous was Thomas of Jöri, who ascended to be the lieutenant of the Oberst lieutenant, a lieutenant Colonel of ours. He was indeed a very wise and educational man. After returning from the prisoner of war, he worked with his expense and letters at the Piuketsa Manor in Türi Parish for the peasants of the school, further developed by education. The main time, however, when Estonia was known for its wise warriors over the empire was the 19th century. Perhaps it is surprising for some to know that in the 19th century, the University of Tartu, which was not a military educational institution, was able to train more than 100 men with general banners. Some military schools didn't even get such results. I'm sure you know General Field Marshal von Berg, but there were also a lot of distinguished men you probably haven't heard from. All these men were the ones who emerged in military warfare because of extraordinary wisdom and knowledge. More known name could be Lieutenant General von Helmersen, who was also known in the scientific world, grew up as an academician and was the most influential men in the Russian state, including in the field of intelligence. Perhaps less has been heard of such men, or has not been heard of them at all, like General von Goens, who has taken over the land of the Kazakhs, who has gone into the history of war. He was not at all a physicist or a geographer or a representative of one of these harsher disciplines, but a philologist. As a result, he was a very good commander because he knew the languages of the Orient. This brought him many successes, even in the sense of finding resources. These were not discovered at the time, but had to speak the local language, put a little pressure on them, and then it was possible to find the mineral. Very famous were those men in the Russian army who had studied under the control of a well-known astronomer Struve, including his own sons who made outstanding careers. It was a miracle of science at that time because they had studied astronomy, but they didn't do astronomy anywhere in the corner of the empire. Thanks to them, the empire prepared the necessary topographical maps, not only for the areas that belonged to the empire, but also for the areas that did not yet belong to the empire, but soon thereafter. For example, the well - known Peter von Helmersen charted Amurland when it was still Chinese. Very wise were those graduates of the University of Tartu who, thanks to their wisdom, arrived... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U124	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U125	There were still men with smart generals or admiral banners. For example, it has been said that if some sailor boy from Saaremaa got into a military hospital somewhere in Vladivostok and did not speak Russian well, he could speak Estonian because the medical generals who graduated from the University of Tartu understood it. Smaller men may not have known that language. In addition to smart people, intellectuals, it is the intelligence of its own time that, at least historically, ties in with the same cyber intelligence theme. In 1845 the Russian Geography Society was established as a shadow organization for Russian intelligence in the Empire. Among its founders were, of course, men and other friends of the University of Tartu who had not been to the University of Tartu, Admiral von Krusenstern, who was already on the run, and several well-known men, until Vladimir Dalini, the famous philologist, who, although not from here, graduated from the university. These are the men known today in the history of intelligence since, of course, Karl Ernst von Baer, who is called the founder of the world's analytical intelligence by Rob Johnston, director of the Institute of History of the American Central Intelligence Agency. I'm sure they were very clever men. Of the very same pleyatists who fought new areas in the hands of the Russian Empire and were not only practitioners of the Russian colonial expansion, but also great theorists and, for some reason, not well known in their home area, is one of the most famous examples of General Gustav von Strandmann, Lihula manor. He who has been to Lihula Manor has heard of other landlords, but the man who for 13 years led the Russian colonial expedition in Siberia, for some reason, does not know. They know Otto Strandman, who's from a very later time. This party includes the wisest men of the Russian army of their own time, such as General Glasenapp and many others. So it seems to me that something of old tradition has been recognized, continued with them, or transported parallels. The military force in our area has always been that it is represented by men who not only scream loudly but are wise people. I hope that this issue of cyber defence, which is mentioned in the draft law, deserves to be taken with sympathy and to look at it again, because there is much that can be done with wisdom in defence policy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U126	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U127	I'll take eight minutes. Can't you? Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U128	If the manager allows it, he can.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U129	- Does the manager allow you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U130	Yeah. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U131	Thank you, Mr President, kindly for your time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Professor Black for this highly imponentative historical approach, because the traditions of a warrior and their survival are indeed quite important. The personal question is that our forefathers and beloved Baltic Germans served as Russian tsar, by the way, as well as some Estonian generals. It comes first and foremost to General Michelson, who suppressed the uprising of Pugatšov and was relatively successful. However, I will come back to today and hope that I can draw the line from this point of view that there is indeed a very positive consensus in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia and in society as a whole through this and political parties. All political forces accept the use of GDP of 2% in the field of defence, and in principle decisions are taken by consensus in the Committee on National Defence. I fully acknowledge that this is a value worth being happy about. If we look at what has happened in other Baltic countries, we must admit that Estonia has actually acted with great responsibility, and I think that Estonia's national defence has been organised in very essence. I would therefore like to appease my esteemed colleagues who began to see the devil that the army is now being brought to the streets, where they are beginning to suppress unrest and attack people not with weapons, but let's just say that there are signs of danger that the Defence Forces are a means of resolving some sort of social tension, if it should be needed unexpectedly. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that the people are our greatest value. There are 1.3 million of us, and there are just as many people in our power structures as it is possible to assemble from its population. Therefore, it is actually reasonable to give different structures the opportunity to cooperate when there is a clear need to do so. With this bill, this clear need is quite well regulated. And a good waitress, as a former good rescue specialist, made it very clear to us that we are talking first and foremost about soft civilian elements, and we must never forget that, in addition to the defence forces, the Defence League is also being used to solve these same elements. That is why I have the sincere inner conviction that the use of this resource is practical and understandable to society. This use of the resource gives us the opportunity to be sure ourselves that we cannot really be hit by something that we do not seem to be able to cope with. Because we know that we have these and those opportunities through which we can provide people with a sense of security. One could blame it on whether this law is not in any way attempted to hijack, for example, the 2% of defence costs promised to NATO, that we are somehow starting to boost internal security through these missions. This is not the case, because it is clearly agreed that whoever orders music will pay. And when we are dealing with a difficult situation, I can say from the experience of the Defence League that, in practice, the resources are actually found to cover these costs and there is certainly no rhepapi here. I therefore call on all my fellow Members to be calm and I continue to argue that, in reality, national defence is not a hidden threat to such emotions and ideology laws. Next, I want to touch on another sympathetic development in the case of the Defence Forces, i.e. the creation of a special operations unit. This need stems from the doctrine of NATO's special operations; in all NATO Member States, special units exist in one way or another. The word'special forces' doesn't have to mean that it's something that doesn't make sense and special, that it's some kind of Rambo that's spying around the corner all the time, trying to attack someone, kidnap someone or get them where they need to go. The task force is, how can I say, a high-level military formation necessary for the state to perform operationally different operations at different points in the world. After all, Estonia uses its special forces primarily to ensure training within the framework of NATO's operations. At the same time, the task force is a clear motivation for the members of the Defence Forces to be so good as to apply for this service. I sincerely feel that we can be calm about this, because we have always had an external mission where we can hone our training and where we are actually poor but honest to solve our social problems, that is, to make money. For us, the task force is certainly the kind of unit that, during the interwar period, gives the Defence Forces the opportunity to train well and receive a slightly higher salary than any simple position of frame defence officer, especially in the case of a row or sub-officer. This is an important decision for Estonia, which is why it must also be welcomed, because this decision shows that we are a good and developing country: there is a consensus and understanding of the need for national defence in society, and we are creating structures that make us a healthy, developed and decent NATO partner. I hope that in the future, our politicians will have a common sense not to speculate on national defence, because whoever does not want to feed his army will soon feed a stranger.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U132	Thank you. I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U133	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Chairman of the National Defence Commission, Mati Raidma, who, despite some late hours and some very early hours, gave very thorough and good answers, which apparently, despite the situation, helped to explain the issue of the Defence Forces. Although there are not too many members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber, it is possible to read later in the verbatim report what the bill on the table today brings with it. When I joined the Riigikogu in 2007, and my first commission became the National Defence Committee, I remember that at the first meeting Trivimi Velliste announced that it was good practice in the National Defence Committee to make decisions in a predominantly consensual manner. I understand that this practice has continued very effectively and that it is practical. Also today's in-depth debate is not due to the fact that we have serious substantive doubts about the draft law amending the organisation of the Defence Forces Act. We all know that this substantive debate comes from a completely different situation, from the fact that consensus such as that in the Committee on National Defence rarely meets outside the Committee on National Defence. I have also seen in the past that neither in the Committee on National Defence nor in the field of national defence have there always been such sensible reform parties as Mati Raidma. Before 2007, the Reform Party had to face up to all forces, because they had a completely different vision of Estonia's defence capabilities. At the time, IRL also showed character in contrast to today's situation, where IRL's policy is no different from that of the Reform Party and where the Reform Party is allowed to do everything in politics that the soul desires, but who, in the field of defence policy, was able to find other fighters, including the Centre Party, to keep the Estonian defence policy on the right track and not to deviate from Latvia's path, for example. And I think that from this'vertebrate' on defence we have to learn about many other issues today. On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the defence forces. This is not because there is something wrong with the bill. This is because there is something wrong with a policy that does not listen to the opinion of others, something is wrong with a policy that wants to adopt next year's budget without taking into account the amendments made by the Riigikogu and ignores the security of the Estonian people. Not only can the military police guarantee security for the people of Estonia, it would certainly guarantee a much greater degree of security, including lower home costs, including the price of electricity. Therefore, we will continue the same policy until the government departments agree to sit at the table and discuss what can actually be done to curb the increase in electricity prices next year. We've said the key to closing the night hearing is in the hands of the government departments. Only reducing electricity excise duty to the minimum permitted by the European Union would suffice to take decisions that would help to slow down the rise in prices next year. Then we would no longer need to propose a cut-off on good and effective drafts and take a ten-minute break before that. We've reached 6:00 in the morning. We can continue a very substantive debate with all the drafts; these drafts certainly deserve this. But there's a big problem ahead of us. This is the opening of the electricity market ahead of 1 January, which will bring a large increase in the price of electricity to the people of Estonia and to the business environment. This problem needs to be solved with great urgency. I therefore hand over the proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the order of the Defence Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U134	I would now like to ask for the floor in the round of negotiations. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U135	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for a ten-minute break instead of Kadri Samson, or he'll need the vocal cords.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U136	Ten minutes can be taken before the vote. I do not see any more requests for speech or speech in the round of negotiations, so I will conclude the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 256 amendments to the draft law. One amendment to the draft has been tabled by the commission, whose position is to take full account of it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U137	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U138	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U139	Good fellows! The break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 1. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1. Please take a stand and vote. There were 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no one opposed. The amendment was supported. With this, we have examined the amendments. A statement has been received by the management board of the Riigikogu that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the organisation of the Defence Forces Act 256. At the same time, we have a position from the lead committee, which wishes to conclude the second reading. Before that, we must vote through the Centre Party Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of bill 256. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U140	Thank you! I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U141	Okay, thanks. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U142	Good fellows! The break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are in favour of suggesting that the second reading of bill 256 should be interrupted. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 256. Please take a stand and vote. There was 0, 30 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and therefore the fifth item has also been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U143	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft 281 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 27 September 2012 by the Constitutional Commission. The Commission discussed the draft before its first reading in plenary session on 9 October. The first reading of the draft was held in plenary on 17 October. a and the first reading was completed. The deadline for amendments was set at 6 p.m. on 31 October. No amendments were received within the deadline. On 31 October, a referral to the Estonian Judicial Association arrived on the draft. In preparation for the second reading of the draft, which took place on 5 November and 12 November, Vice Chancellor Marko Aavik of the Ministry of Justice and Ülle Pulk, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Judicial Aids, took part as guests. The Chairman of the Executive Board of the Association of Estonian Judicial Assistants presented to the Commission the proposals they made, according to which the six-month probationary period should not apply to the post of Advocate General when candidates for the post of Advocate General are adjourned, as the assistance of judges has already passed the preparatory service, etc. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, the association commented on the proposal and outlined the position of the Ministry of Justice, Marko Aavik. According to that opinion, the judge's assistants cannot be exempted from the application of the probationary period, since the post of Advocate General includes different functions compared to what the judges' assistants are currently doing. The members of the Commission listened to the views of the parties and asked for further questions. The majority of the members of the Commission considered that it was not justified to create preferential conditions for the assistance of judges who stand as Advocates-General compared to other candidates. They should therefore be subject to the probationary period provided for in the draft. The same view was taken by several leading Estonian judges. The Commission also discussed some inconsistencies between the draft text and the explanatory memorandum. It has now been removed and the draft has been submitted to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U145	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Today, there is, in fact, a drought in the process of filling judges' positions, mainly in Ida-Virumaa. Rait, do you think that the post of Advocate General could in the future be a so-called plantbed or a springboard for the application of judges and the vacancy of judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U147	That's right, it could be. This is one of the purposes of allowing those who work successfully as Advocates-General to continue to stand for the post of Judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U148	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Paragraph 1251 of the draft law, which provides for the competence of the Advocate General, is very general. It is unclear what the Advocate General will do specifically. Do you not think that the tasks and competences of a new post should first be agreed and that a new post should only be created? Right now, it feels like it's the other way around. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U150	Thank you! That was a question in the Commission, and the brief answer is that we do not read the judge's jurisdiction in any specific act If we introduce a new post, it will become more precise in the course of the work and will be formally specified in the new law on courts in preparation. According to a generally recognised understanding elsewhere in Europe, an Advocate General means a higher link between an official or a judicial authority of the Court, between a judge and a judicial authority. He works directly under the direction and direction of the judge, and therefore a closer definition of competence, at least this is what our committee found, does not need to be brought into law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U151	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U152	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question also concerns the Advocate General. EUR 2.5 million is earmarked for the establishment of this post in the state budget. According to the Ministry's information, 2 million of this will be needed to make structural changes to the judiciary agencies and the rest to increase the quality of the judicial workforce. What exactly does that mean, where does that half a million go?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U153	As far as I can tell, the judge must prepare a wide range of procedural documents, decisions, regulations, etc. when conducting proceedings. They also have a technical side, such as the introductory part, etc. The Advocate General is intended to reduce the burden of routine, technical work on the judge in order to increase the speed of the preparation of judgments and the performance of the judges. The Advocate General would therefore urgently need to do so, as the current posts of consultants do not provide for this function in this form and the level of their qualifications is slightly lower. The Advocate General must be paid a salary comparable to that of those employed by other authorities or by the Bar Association, the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to find qualified and reliable people and to be competitive in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U154	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U155	Thank you. Honourable performer! Indeed, the Advocate General is a new concept, and I am asking the same question. Why haven't we taken this step in years and created these places?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U156	Thank you. I'd ask the same question. The Advocate General is, in fact, a well-known and very well-fixed institute in other jurisdictions, including the international institutions in which I have worked. So it is possible, indeed, that we should have had this profession a long time ago. But that's how progress has been and it's a good thing that this thing is still being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U157	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a further question about what Marika Tuus-Laul asked for. We can see that the draft budget is set at 2.5 million next year, but it is likely that these places will not be filled by all courts next year. Maybe it's included. How much could that amount be in the future if the Advocates General's seats are 100% full? It's probably bigger than that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U159	That's not how I'm familiar with the process. In the Commission, we did not raise this issue so that we would have asked the head of the field, the Ministry of Justice, what exactly does it mean or what this amount could be. I understand that, in a full case, about a hundred Advocates Generals are planned to be employed. What exactly is that going to cost, I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U160	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U161	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! We are both aware that two variants of different lengths have moved around from the draft position of Advocate General. One is the so-called summer long draft and the other is the short version that is currently on the tables and what we are discussing. The Chancellor of Justice and the Court of Justice Advisory Board also expressed their views on the longer draft. Neither the Chancellor nor the Court of Justice Advisory Panel have been able to state their position on the draft currently on the table. It was up to us in the Commission to discuss whether, in the case of such an important issue, which actually brings about a significant change in the judicial system, it would still not be possible to ask the Chancellor of Justice and the court administration council before the draft was adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U162	Yes, it was indeed a matter for the Commission, and there were different opinions. One was the opinion that you have just expressed. I would not consider this change in the structural restructuring of the judicial system. It is a job foresight; it is certainly not a structural or important restructuring. These functions, which will be performed by the Advocate General, are comparable to those of the current court consultant, and can therefore be called a merger or a minor extension of jurisdiction, an increase in status. This is not a structural restructuring. That is why I do not think that I should ask the Chancellor of Justice for his opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U163	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question also relates to the position of Advocate General. I would like to clarify whether the Advocates General will act personally with the judge or with the courts? Will the Advocate General be bound by a court or a judge?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U165	Yeah, that's a legitimate question. There are two types of solutions. There are the Advocates-General who work for the Court, for example in an international court, and others who work for a particular judge as an assistant. In Estonia, as the court alone settles most of the cases at first instance, it is meant as an assistant working with the judge, working under his supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U166	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The institution of the Advocate General has been implemented in several European countries. I am sure that Estonia will use the experience of other countries in implementing its system of Advocates-General. Can you tell us which countries' experiences have been used and which European countries have ever implemented such an institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U168	It has certainly been implemented in international courts, both at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. In the latter, he works for the judge. The judge has a personal office, and it's a different system. The Advocates-General are certainly used in Belgium and also in France, but I am not going to read you out of my mind, I may be wrong because I am not prepared for this. It can be checked elsewhere. But it's a well-known institution in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U169	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U170	Thank you. Good performer! My question also concerns this earlier, longer version of the bill and the position of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice's position was quite substantial, ten pages. It points out that there has been insufficient analysis of the transfer of justice-related tasks to the judicial officers for independent exercise and that this is not in line with the Constitution. Do you agree with the Chancellor of Justice's position and how to resolve this potential contradiction or what assessment do you make?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U171	Some kind of misunderstanding may have arisen because there is a longer, larger bill, a new law on courts, which also regulated many other issues. The comments of the Chancellor of Justice were perhaps above all on this longer draft. However, as the larger draft has lingered, there was a need to lift out this single piece, the Advocate General's part. I therefore think that these remarks do not apply to this small piece. It is really difficult for me personally to see where this constitutionality problem is or where there is a greater problem of illegality. Speculatively, we can think of such things, but this function is gradually specified in the course of work. This was also acknowledged by the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice. If the work requires clarification, it can be organised in the preparation of this more comprehensive draft law on courts. I do not see any significant deficit at this level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U172	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I read on page 2 of your explanatory memorandum that, on the one hand, it is intended to promote the current officials of the Court to the Advocates-General, while the last sentence says that, in the sense of the draft, this is not a promotion, but a whole new post to which everyone can apply. I mean, this isn't a promotion for current officials, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U174	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U175	No, yeah. The right thing to do is to create a new position, a position of Advocate General. If these people, who are currently working as court consultants, apply to the position of Advocate General in competition, it is a promotion for them, but it is not automatically that today is a court consultant, tomorrow we will call him an Advocate General and get a higher salary. No, all these places will be filled in by competition. That's one of the points of finding the best people among the best court consultants, the best of the judges, and also the next door to fill these places. It's not a mechanical promotion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! We have realised that the main point of dispute in this draft is the future competence of the Advocate General. In the draft law, it has been left unwritten or done in very general terms. The question now is that, as we know, it is not so easy to get judges in some courthouses. My question has to do with this. What minimum education and preparation must be provided by the person who could subsequently be appointed to the post of Advocate General?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U177	It is a question of whether we need to anticipate all kinds of activities that he does and does not do. The most important thing about this draft is that the Advocate General works under the supervision and direction of a judge. It's important. What guidance the judge gives to his lawyer depends on the style of the judge's work, his preferences and needs. There's no very big regulation here. He certainly does not make independent procedural decisions, that is out of the question. There is no compromise in this regard, the judge decides. The Advocate General, under the guidance of the Judge, prepares the material needed for the judge to decide, and likewise he prepares, for example, draft judgments or orders and other procedural documents. The courts produce numerous procedural documents. In order not to spend the time of the judge in this work, the Advocate General will help him. This is a matter of cooperation between the two. It cannot be regulated in very detailed terms. Clearly, according to the doctrine of justice, decisions are made by a judge and not by an Advocate General.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U178	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! As we know, the number of posts filled by judges increases year by year. This year, 21 posts of judges have not been filled. As your experienced judge and probably the biggest specialist in the court area in Estonia, can you state the main reason why these posts are not filled? Is low wages the main reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U180	There are various reasons. Pay may not be the most important. This is important, but the remuneration of the judiciary in the current context of the public service is quite considerable. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked that there are professions in the area of law, such as lawyers or corporate lawyers, who earn significantly more with the same qualifications. It's a fact that everyone knows about the professorship. But not pay is always decisive. Often, the stress and pressure that a judge has to endure and the limitations that a judge has to live in are also decisive. It is not acceptable for all people and it is worth the pay. Therefore, the attitude of society, the working environment and wages are factors in the collection that affect the performance of this position. Of course, it would be good if all the places were filled and we had a line at the door all the time. But that's not really the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U181	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U182	Thank you very much, Mr President. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, I read that the Advocate General should also reduce the burden on judges. If that is the case, it is certainly commendable. Has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the initiator of the Act, the Government of the Republic, asked for the position of the courts or judges on the draft, and what is this position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U183	Thank you. We in our committee did not ask for the opinion of the judges, but it was asked during the preparation of the draft. We also have the opinions of the judges here. In addition, in the final stage, the opinions concerned whether the assistance of the judge should be exempted from the generally prescribed six-month probationary period. We didn't find it necessary, and the judges didn't think it was necessary. The other part of the question was whether the Advocate General would ease the work of the Judge. I'm sure it will. The judges long await the creation of such a post in order to have reliable and qualified people there, to reduce the technical, routine work of the judges and to commit more to substantive review and decision-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U184	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One of the objectives of the draft act and the reason for the creation of the Advocate General's posts is the need to ensure a reasonable period of procedure and to improve the quality of justice. This means that the explanatory memorandum assumes that there are serious problems with these two issues. As former Chairman of the Supreme Court and former judge of the European Court of Human Rights, how do you assess the quality of Estonian justice and whether the trial in Estonia takes place within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U186	Thank you! Looking at this background, how quickly justice takes place in other European countries, such as Italy, Estonia looks very good. But we would always like to get faster and faster and better quality. However, on average, in my opinion, the speed of Estonian administration of justice is not condemnable, it cannot be said that there is something wrong with it, it is happening in a very normal way. What gives rise to difficulties is that lawyers often pick up not the content of the matter, but the way in which procedural documents are prepared, whether there are contradictions or weaknesses inside. When processual documents are technically poorly prepared, it is very easy for lawyers to comply with it, to challenge any procedural and substantive steps. The creation of an Advocate General's office will improve the quality of preparation of procedural documents and will also reduce the possibility of challenging procedural steps and thus delaying processes or creating empty but inevitably related disputes. Thus, the Advocate General should contribute to increasing speed and quality, as the level of preparation of procedural documents should presumably increase and thus speed up the judicial process.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U187	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U188	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the so-called positive side of this bill and the approval of the bill. Personally, I think that the position of Advocate General with the judges and in the courts is necessary, because the explanatory memorandum to the draft does indeed set out this issue, to which Mr Stalnukhin also pointed out. This concerns both the quality of justice in Estonian courts and the reasonable period of proceedings. I will bring you some information about the time of proceedings, as well as the number of judges, which will undoubtedly determine the time of proceedings. In 2010 there were 244 judges in Estonian courts and 13 of them had not been filled. In 2011, 242 judges had posts, 18 outstanding. This year there are 242 judges and 21 are not filled. In the last three years, as you can see, the number of vacant judges has increased steadily: from 13 to 21 in three years. However, the trend is that this number is increasing. When it comes to proceedings, for example in civil cases at first instance, the duration of proceedings is 164 days, 346 days in general proceedings, 142 days in administrative cases, 54 days in criminal cases at second instance, 167 days in civil cases and 191 days on average in administrative cases. If you look at the coalition agreement that the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have concluded, there is a point in that agreement according to which the period of proceedings is to be brought to 100 days. When I read you these figures, as they are today, there is no doubt that there is a need to shorten the period of proceedings, and I think that the creation of an Advocate General's post should certainly help that. Speaking of this bill, as I said on my question, the bill was much more extensive than what we have on the table today when the Ministry came up with the so-called long version. In addition to the creation of the Advocate General's office, the draft also referred to the preparation of judges, and there was a separate position such as a senior court attorney. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this long draft was not agreed with the parties, whether it be the courts or the court administration council, or within the Ministry of Justice itself. The Chancellor of Justice's opinion was on almost ten pages. The ministry and the minister decided to come up with this shorter version, go the easy way of resisting and simply create the position of Advocate General. On the budget line, EUR 2.5 million has already been earmarked for this. The error of the short version of the draft proposal may indeed be the one on which there were a number of questions and to which the Chancellor of Justice also refers in his position: the competence of the Advocate General is defined in a relatively general way in the current draft and would require a little more dissertation. At the same time, I agree that this really is a very new position in the Estonian judicial system, and perhaps in time it will become clear what tasks the Advocate General will have in particular. If necessary, the law may also be further specified or supplemented and this competence may be rewritten or extended or restricted. I would also like to talk about the referral of the Association of Assistant Judges, which was also discussed by the Chairman of the Commission. I was personally impressed and actually said by Ülle Pulk, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Assistant Judges, that their main concern was that, if an Advocate General was created, their posts would disappear after that. We did try in the Commission, especially the Minister, to give assurance to the Association of Assistant Judges and the Assistant Judges that these posts would not be lost. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U189	Three minutes in case it wasn't added to start. Okay, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U190	Thank you. The Association of Assistant Judges has also called on the Commission to obtain further assurance that their position will not be lost. If there is currently a provision in § 1251 of the draft, which states that the Advocate General is also competent to carry out the acts and decisions which, under the Law of Judicial Procedure, are competent to do as a judge's assistant or other court official, their proposal was to add to it the words 'except in urgent proceedings for the order for payment and in matters relating to the register'. It is as if it would give the assistance of a judge the assurance that their position will not be lost and that, at least in urgent proceedings for the payment order and in register matters, the functions and positions of a judge's assistant will continue to be necessary. I think that if this draft comes to a debate in the Commission between second and third readings, then this issue could be considered, and if that is indeed the case in the Commission, this text should be included there. There is no need to create uncertainty in the judiciary. Rather, the Ministry has planned, and the Commission has also agreed that the Advocate General will assume the duties of current consultant. That is, in short, all I have to say about the draft, but I can see that colleagues still want to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U191	Thank you very much. Viktor Vassilyev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U192	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, As noted by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in his in-depth presentation, the speed of the trial depends on the substance of the case and on the procedural preparation, if I have understood correctly. I would like to bring the parallel that the procedure for this draft should also depend on both content and procedural preparation. Both of them raise certain questions about me. First the contents. In essence, an Advocate General's office will be attached to the Court. But what would have happened if there had been a forensic consultant? But what if he had been named by another name, such as someone's assistant, an assistant judge, or because of me, even the chancellor of the court, no matter what? If anything had changed or not, I don't know. With regard to the birth pains of the bill, there were also doubts. We're talking lawyers and legal. The Chancellor of Justice is quite a competent lawyer. If, at some stage, he challenged a decision that had been made and had to be reversed, that means that it still doesn't go as easy as it would have been. You know, the title of the draft law alone, the draft law amending the Courts Act, we have too many laws amending the law. I haven't done any statistics, but I think most of our work is going to take some sort of correction or a miscarriage of laws. Indeed, this lawyer could have named him right now, perhaps he could have left his current name, I don't know. But in any case, the law says the court needs a lawyer to explain things to the judge or at least prepare things. I guess that's necessary. I don't have anything against lawyers, lawyers always have to be supported, never know when they'll be needed. I've had a few jobs in my life where I worked with lawyers. There was even a time of glory where I had several lawyers under my command. You know, very interesting people, talking to them always gets smarter because a lawyer still has something smart to say to you, lawyers have a completely original way of thinking. They think a little different than, I don't know, an excavator driver or a cow milker and even a different kind of doctor. Although I would like to bring the parallel that the doctor should also be respected, I don't know when it might be necessary. Of course, that's it. In our modern world, where it is considered the norm that everyone should, as it were, pursue higher education, higher education has devalued. We have all kinds of universities that teach some public administration specialists, business managers, whatever, three years, and then a young person goes out to find out where the big corporation is to hire him as chairman of the board of directors. Somehow they don't. This education is worth nothing. But it is precisely medical and legal education that is a very specific education; it is an extremely universal education. I was starting to like that story. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U193	Thank you. Even if both a doctor and a lawyer, I mean a classic university-educated lawyer, they both study Latin. The doctor and the lawyer can both say: aetiam nunc peach docti in casibus specialibus linguam latinam loquunt, which in translation means (must translate, we understand, others cannot) that in special cases educated people even today use Latin. That's right. We must, of course, support the lawyers. On the other hand, the people say that lawyers are such bad guys that lawyers are even assigned a separate department in hell. I've never heard such a thing about doctors. But which one of us has been there? Maybe someday he'll find out. Going to court has become like a national sport in Estonia, and for every reason you have to go to court. As soon as the fine is twisted, go to court immediately, you'll have the fine revoked. There's an argument with the housing company, there's no one to sue, but go to court. That's how these courts grind and grind. Maybe that's why the court needs a lawyer to explain things to the judge, because sometimes these things may be so simple that a highly educated specialist can't go down to figure out why some evil spirit is being tried inside a condom. At the same time, it is indeed necessary to strengthen the court because the quality of judgments is sometimes questioned. There's a decision in the same kind of thing, sometimes there's a different decision. Life has shown us that, unfortunately, even judges who have gone to prison have been locked up and have already come out. It happens. The doctor also happens that he gets sick, may even die. I guess we need to strengthen the court. Only if this Advocate General's seat so much improves quality, the ghost knows that. After all, a good lawyer is very difficult to find, lawyers have plenty of places, and yes, local governments have empty lawyers. Again, we still have pocket universities that prepare lawyers with almost secondary or applied higher education. For example, some University of Sillamäe, which resides in Tallinn, a very symbolic name, the University of Sillamäe in Tallinn, prepares lawyers who are Russian-speaking. In my opinion, in the case of a doctor, at least a therapist, and also a lawyer, language is the basic instrument used. I can't imagine how to work without an instrument. Wages are also a question of their own. I guess they are, aren't they? That's why a lawyer doesn't go to the local government because his pay is a little low for him. So I don't know, of course, future generations will judge this law, so it's one way or the other. I very much hope that it will never have to be changed and that we will not have the law amending the law. So, good luck with the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U194	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U195	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Tarmo Tamme.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U196	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft to be discussed is certainly necessary, and I hope that becoming the law on this draft will greatly facilitate the work of Estonian courts. If there is talk in society and perhaps there is such an idea that the office of judge is well prestigious and well paid, then, as the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has just pointed out, this is not the case today. The salaries of our judges cannot compete with private sector salaries, and many people in this profession go to work in the private sector. It has happened that more and more judges remain vacant year after year. While there were 4 vacant posts in 2007, there were 5 in 2008, 10 in 2009, 13 in 2010, 18 in 2011 and 21 in 2008. Vacancies also mean that judges who have remained in employment are increasingly burdened and court times are increasing. While the number of complaints fell last year, the workload of judges did not decrease. For example, in 2011, a judge in the civil cases of Harju County Court wrote 455 judgments and orders, which are 1.2 decisions requiring legal analysis, which need to be substantiated in a calendar day. I'm asking, how high quality can such a verdict be? The objective set out in the Coalition Agreement that court proceedings should not last for more than 100 days at any stage of court is very far from reality. The aim in itself is noble and good, and I, as a opposition politician, like this point in the coalition agreement. But, unfortunately, it's very difficult to carry it out. In criminal matters, decisions are reached in an average of 346 days, a private dispute can be resolved in an average of 164 days and an average of 142 days in administrative court. Our current judicial system does not guarantee justice within a reasonable period of time. This has been repeatedly pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, as well as by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights concerning Estonia. Now, if you come to the creation of an Advocate General's office, it could be such a crafty little step. In the same way, we are trying to reduce the burden on judges and the number of vacant judges. However, this work will be pursued in the future for much less money, as the Advocate General's salary is not comparable to that of a judge, and so it may happen that, in the event of a financial crisis, the State employs Advocates-General in order to obtain a court settlement with less money more quickly. I don't know if this is the right approach, but it seems to me that this kind of danger might be hiding here. But in any case, I support this draft and hopefully the cases will be better off after the draft comes into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U197	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Kadri Samson's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the sixth point on today's agenda, we have arrived there 17 hours and 17 minutes after the start of the debate on today's agenda. There are 20 more items on our agenda today and there are six items on the agenda for tomorrow's session, or even today's official sitting on Thursday. If we continue at the same pace, we will continue to work continuously for three more days in a row, because what we have undoubtedly had behind us has been a job, there has been a meaningful debate. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this meaningful debate, both by the opposition and by the coalition. But I think it's appropriate to remind you at this morning's hour why we're doing this here today. We are doing this because we are discussing the state budget for the coming year in parallel, on which the opposition has proposed a hundred amendments. None of them found support. There were 96 amendments tabled by the Centre Party. For our part, we are prepared to offer a very big compromise. We understand that the government is going through very tight times. The Estonian people must make great sacrifices because we also have obligations to our Europeans, to whom we must send support in euro and in the form of good ministerial advice. We are therefore ready to stop delaying the current parliamentary debate when the government is ready to use its own tax levers to mitigate the rise in electricity prices for the coming year. The price of electricity, as we all know, consists of five parts, four of which are directly influenced by government political decisions. We are talking about electricity excise duty, which is 4.7 times higher in Estonia than the minimum rate in the European Union. We have reached the sixth item today, and on this sixth item, the Group of the Estonian Central Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts. Before this interruption, I'm telling you, we're taking another 10 minutes break. We will continue to pursue the same policy until the government departments continue to take action to mitigate the rise in electricity prices. It's not our problem here, whether we have one night without sleep, two nights without sleep, three nights without sleep, or more. If we let the government be inactive about rising electricity prices, we will create a problem for all Estonian families and Estonian companies for the coming year. That would be irresponsible of Parliament. I thank you for your attention and will hand over to the President a proposal to suspend the procedure for the draft law amending the law on courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any more requests for negotiation? There are no negotiating requests. I'm closing the negotiations. The Board of the Riigikogu has received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of this bill. We'll put it to the vote after recess in ten minutes. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. I vote on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts 281. Please take a stand and vote. There were 2 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 33 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of this draft has been completed. That concludes our sixth item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U201	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Vassilyev, vice-chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U202	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Act amending the Law on State Fees Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U203	I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the performer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U204	The members of the Riigikogu, committees and political groups did not propose any amendments to the draft law amending the State Fees Act for the second reading. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, decided to make three amendments to the draft. Let me introduce them briefly. The first amendment decided to change the location of the standard. The rate of the state fee to be paid when applying for a driving licence through a diplomatic mission shall be laid down in the consular service section. It was originally in the draft section of the Road Administration's operations. The second proposal clarifies, for reasons of legal clarity, the wording of the State Fees Act in order to make it clear which act the fee covers. In the first case it is to change the place where the document is issued, in the second case the document is to be forwarded to a diplomatic mission of a Member State of the European Union. Thirdly, the amendment of § 294 (2) of the State Fees Act, the content of which is the payment of the state fee by the consular officer for the translation and validation of the translation of the document, is waived and § 301 of the State Fees Act, which provides for the provision of translation services, is amended. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs explained to the Commission that § 294 (2) did not apply in practice and that the initiator of the draft was originally intended to amend § 301. Procedural decisions were also taken. The amendments were discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 12 November. The Commission unanimously supported all the amendments. The Committee on Finance's proposal to plenary is to conclude the second reading of the draft, which was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U205	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! If you look at this bill, the state fee for the licence of a motor vehicle driver will rise to EUR 30, while the other fees will rise to EUR 30 in the foreign representation, which will increase by 17%. At the same time, the state fee for biometric passports will increase to EUR 60, or 109%. Did the Commission mention how they were calculated? Growths are very high, is that justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U207	Yes, this was indeed the subject of a debate in the Commission. The originator's justification for the need to increase these state fees was that the cost of issuing documents abroad is higher than at home. Consequently, the State fees will be adjusted. At least the originator's justification was that the fee would increase by the proportion by which their issue would be more expensive elsewhere than here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U208	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the explanatory memorandum to this draft, we find, under the influence of the law, that changes are expected to reach nearly EUR 500000 in the budget. Will this additional State fee of EUR 500000 in future cover all the costs of issuing documents from foreign offices or will it still only partially compensate for the costs to be incurred?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U210	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U211	The author's general logic has been that these state fees, which have now been presented before us in a modified form, should compensate for the costs of issuing documents outside Estonia. It cannot be said that, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it would have been very long and comprehensively calculated whether or not these costs could be accurately covered, but the overall approach of the initiator has been such and it can be assumed that they will cover them. If not, the originator is therefore wrong in his calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! At first reading in this Chamber, you mentioned the three main issues discussed by the Commission, and you also mentioned that some of the issues remained a bit air-strip. At the time, you hoped that you would receive more precise answers to the questions you had left in the air during the procedure. How about this now? Are you satisfied with the procedure between the two readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U213	In fact, a number of questions were also raised in the Commission during the second reading and the issues on which I mentioned here in the first reading report that they were left in the 'air'. It may be said that some of the questions were answered, but some things were also a little unclear. Above all, it is precisely how the exact calculation of the component by which the cost of a document issued outside Estonia is higher than here. Are these postal charges and what are the costs additional to postal charges? That was the main thing. It could be said that the questions were asked and the answers were given, not quite clear, but a little clearer than at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U214	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U215	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the bill states that applications for identity documents are sent from the Estonian Foreign Office through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Police and Border Guard Board for processing and for issuing the processed documents back to the Estonian Foreign Office. Is this an optimal working arrangement or is it possible, given the development of information technology, to optimize in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U216	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U217	This should probably be asked by the executive representatives whether the optimal path has been chosen or whether it would be possible to make this work organisation more efficient to some extent and thus save costs. In general, applications are processed here and then returned to the point of issue. Is it optimal? Is it the most effective? This may be asked in the future in this Chamber by the representative of the executive, or another option is to ask them a written question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U218	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I will continue with the previous question. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law describes a situation where the place of issue of the document applied for by the foreign representation changes, for example, it is initially desirable to obtain the passport in Brazil, but later it is wanted to be issued in London. The current procedure, as has been mentioned, sometimes forces a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Brazil, back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and after London. It is quite costly financially on the one hand, but it is also costly in time on the other. Maybe we should take out the part of the State Department. If so, what needs to be done for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U219	This issue was discussed in the Commission and raised in the same way as in this Chamber. Yes, if a person first wants to receive his document in one country, later on, but for some reason he thinks that he would actually want to get it in another country, then according to the current procedure, the document really moves along the path you have just described, that is, through Estonia to a new place. They asked if it was optimal and reasonable. There may not have been very clear answers to this, but I think that, in general terms, these are quite extreme cases, which do not affect the overall picture very much. Which, of course, doesn't mean it doesn't have to be dealt with. Hopefully, the executive will try to find an optimal solution, decide whether sending through Estonia is absolutely necessary or whether it is possible to do so in other ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U220	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U221	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, I read that the state fee for issuing the certificates provided for in § 292 of the State Tax Act will be increased from EUR 15 to EUR 20 due to the length of the issuing period. The question is this: is it really taking more time to issue now and the price must be increased by EUR 5?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U222	From this perspective, this question was not raised in my memory in the Commission. I cannot be here as a representative of the executive and comment on whether this process is really now more time-consuming and, perhaps even more interesting, whether this intensity of time generates additional costs and in what proportion. But it is undoubtedly an important issue and certainly deserves to be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U223	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U224	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! My question relates to the saddest part of life and is a bit of a morbid undertone. From the draft law amending the state fee law and other laws, we can read that the state fee for issuing a certificate of sealing a coffin or urn with dust will be raised by five euros, i.e. 20 euros. Did the Commission consider giving up such a fee at all, for example, in order to make it a little easier for the relatives of the deceased to deal with this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U225	No, as far as I know, the subject was not discussed from that angle. There have certainly been no such proposals either, which does not in itself mean that they could not arise or that this issue does not deserve a debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U226	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The drafters have planned to earn an additional half a million euros in the budget by raising the state fees. At the same time, it states that this year the total value of applications for issuing documents is EUR 368050. What is the cost to the Estonian state of issuing one document, cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U228	I'm sure that's a good question. It is not possible to make a very good calculation in this respect that the cost of issuing different documents varies. What could be done, however, of purely statistical interest or, for example, of asking the Ministry to do is to collide the costs of different documents and then divide them by the number of documents, which would give the possibility to calculate the average price of a single document to be issued.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U229	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U230	Thank you, Madam President. Good Beacher! As Vassilyev Vassilyev, tell me honestly what this is about. Did the country find an opportunity to complement its budget with half a million euros, or does it want to offer people more for their money? Is there a person here for a country or a country for a person? After all, a person would actually support his own country. A person will certainly be willing to pay more for a good or service if he or she receives more or better quality for it. What more could a person expect for this increased state fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U231	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U232	Thank you. I answer like Vassilyev Vassilyev. A Member of the Commission, whose name is also Vassilyev by chance, asked half of this question in the Commission. I asked what is the reason why these state fees are rising and whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now receiving a higher fee for documents issued outside Estonia, somehow adding to its revenue and can then do something specifically for it. It was not explicitly mentioned that it was related to a specific item of expenditure within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me put it this way: in any case, such a question arose in the Commission. As regards whether the service and the quality of the document available will improve for people who apply for and receive a document outside Estonia, this is unlikely to happen. It is, in one form or another, to find a source of income for the State or, as is the approach of the initiator, to ask for a fair price for a matter which has previously been indirectly subsidised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U233	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I also have a close question on the same subject. I understand in this way that this bill could be called a bill to raise state fees, isn't it? It's a bill to collect more money into the state budget. Of course, it's gotten really bad when the country is so poor that a few tens of euros are being raised. That is why I have the question: did the Commission, for example, try to justify the fact that all these operations have become more expensive in foreign countries at all? It is usually said that we also raise prices because everything around has become more expensive. Were such explanations sought?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U234	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U235	This would certainly be one approach on the basis of which it could be expected that prices would have to be adjusted. However, in this case, the focus was rather on the fact that the price charged so far is abnormally low compared to expenditure, i.e. the attempt is made to bring the state fee into line with real costs. Rather, it was the author's explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U236	Thank you. Good performer! Tell me, please, have you seen or asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs to see any concrete calculations of how the new state fees have been presented, how they have been issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U237	This calculation is not explicitly set out in the explanatory memorandum and was not detailed in the Commission. As I mentioned, they asked why processing and issuing a document outside Estonia would become more expensive than when it was done in Estonia. No specific calculation was made, and no one asked for it to be done in very detailed terms, although general explanations were requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U238	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U239	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I guess that's the handwriting of our beloved government here to feel every step of the way. If people need any support, if something needs to be raised, even a pension, and the index provides for 6%, then they try to raise 5%, but if they want to take more money from a person, they are not talking about 5% or 10%. § 301 of the State Tax Act raises the state fee for the translation service, from EUR 15 to EUR 60 per page, or four times, 400%. You don't have to translate abroad, e-mails are moving, you can translate here. Isn't that a little too much for 400% more for translation services, that's beyond reason. Did you mention that 400%, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U240	Yes, one of the issues raised in the Commission was this translation service. This was justified by the fact that it is not a "core activity," which is why it usually needs to be ordered from outside, and by which it could be more expensive. But, frankly, there is no good reason why this price is exactly what it is in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U241	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U242	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You pointed out very well the various aspects involved in taking state fees, but this made me unwittingly draw parallels. Here's the question. In 2008, Rein Lang, the Minister of Justice at the time, proposed to multiply the state fees for recourse to the courts and claimed that this would keep spiteful complainants away from the courts. Pretty soon, the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court found that it also rejected less spiteful and not too wealthy law-abiding citizens and reduced the availability of judicial protection for citizens. On the basis of this parallel, I wanted to ask you: what is your opinion, can't it be that the weight goes away again and we get the damage, instead of the benefits, that the availability of the service simply diminishes, the quality of the service deteriorates, or that in some cases the ordering of the service becomes too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U243	Thank you. I'm sure there's a danger. It cannot be assumed that those people, especially in today's general situation, who live abroad for one reason or another and are therefore forced to apply for and receive one or another document there, would necessarily be very well-off. We have left Estonia with quite a few people, for whom we cannot say that there are very good and secure jobs waiting elsewhere. So this issue could certainly arise, especially in today's situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U244	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U245	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Mr Black has just pointed out that there was a recent pressure to reduce the state fees for court-related proceedings, because there was a contradiction with the Constitution. Now I ask: are these state fees in proportion to our people's standard of living or income?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U246	Thank you. At the end of the day, this concerns the previous question. Then I'll go ahead with the answer. Since these changes concern primarily or generally people whose habitual residence is not Estonia, but another country, the state fees should be compared to the standard of living of the people who live in those countries. There may be questions about two aspects. One is the personal level, i.e. how one person or another can handle it specifically in this country. The second question is which country a person lives in, because, as we know, the standard of living in the countries of the world is quite different. This draft does not determine the state fee depending on the country in which the document is issued or applied for. The fees are universal according to this bill. At the same time, depending on where they are and how they manage in this country, the situation is quite different. So there may be a variety of problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U247	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U248	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! When the draft came to first reading, we were able to see in the explanatory memorandum a table showing the state fees of other European Union countries for examining the application for the issue of a document at a foreign agency. The countries of the European Union, where the fee was higher than in Estonia, were selected. In principle, it was one of the foundations for Estonia to increase its rates. But do you have an overview or information on whether such fees are lower in all EU countries or whether they are lower somewhere? And if it's lower, what's politics there, conservative or going in that direction like in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U249	Thank you. I do not have a very specific and detailed statistical overview, but generally the principles vary depending on the country. There are so-called cost-based countries, but there are also countries that do not really approach this issue on a cost-based basis, perhaps in one form or another, so-called 'do' it. It cannot be said that in all countries state fees are higher than the level that Estonia wants to raise them to. There are some where there are, and there are others where there aren't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U250	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U251	Thank you. Whenever a country plans some major income growth, parallels can be drawn over the past few years. I remembered that when traffic cameras were introduced in Estonia, it was thought that a traffic penalty of 600 kroons should be imposed per year for each licence holder. That was a very bold assumption, and it didn't prove to be true. With this draft, the state plans to earn EUR 500000, which is over EEK 7.8 million. That's a lot of money. I'm sure all people are interested in how much is planned for a single applicant for documents. Would you like to remind me how many applicants there were last year and which countries most actively issue Estonian documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U252	I would, but I have to admit, it probably doesn't do much good because I don't have the information. I'm sure you can ask the Ministry for more details. As far as speed cameras and their warning fines are concerned, in some respects it is appropriate to bring such a parallel and, in some respects, it is a matter of different nature. After all, the goal of a speed camera is that as little fines as possible should be imposed, i.e. speed should be exceeded as little as possible. In the case of state fees, the State is unlikely to set this objective for the minimum number of documents to be issued abroad. The so-called behavioural corrective effect should not be the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U253	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U254	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that this year, the cost of receiving documents has already been tens of thousands of euros. Was it not discussed in the Commission that it might be necessary to review postal service providers and examine whether services could be received more favourably?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U255	This issue has not been raised directly. Clearly, postal services and the amount they spend are directly dependent on where documents are posted in a given year. Sending them to the immediate neighbourhood is quite reasonable at a price, but if we start talking about southern Europe or Australia, for example, where applying for these documents could be expected to increase, why not also from Asia, then postal costs per unit may be quite high. The variation depending on the country and its distance from Estonia is quite large.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U256	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U257	Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office. Mr Vasilyev! The explanatory memorandum to this draft states that it is costly to issue a document through a foreign representation of a Member State of the European Union and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has paid for it from its operating costs so far. Do you know how much the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has paid for this service from its operating costs this year, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U258	Since this amount was not specifically mentioned in the Commission, I do not have this information at the moment. However, it can clearly be assumed that the amount covered by the explanatory memorandum for operating costs is lower than the revenue from State fees, which is also included in the explanatory memorandum. Otherwise, the whole bill would make no sense. So you can draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U259	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U260	Thank you, good Rannar! It was very touching to hear that there was someone else in the Commission named Vassilyev who was doing the same thing that I am trying to do here. That's great, because there is actually a lot of us, Vassilyeves, and if we took one step, we could do really great things, maybe not just in Estonia. But suddenly there was another Vassilyev on the Commission who dared to ask where those half a million were going, or a person with any name could have talked about it. I do believe that if the Commission had been presented with such a great plan to raise state fees, it was definitely said that boys would still need half a million as taken from the ground. But for what purposes and where? Can you tell me anything about where this money is being used, the half a million? I'm sure he's necessary, but why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U261	As I mentioned, this question was indeed raised, but unfortunately there was no Vassilyev on the side of the respondent who would have been able to respond specifically to it. The idea that this could help, but for what exactly, there was no specific answer to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U262	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U263	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Is there a tendency that some of the services provided by the state should be cost-oriented? If they are cost-oriented, I ask: are there any services that people will soon be unable to buy because the price of the service will be so high?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U264	Yes, it seems that there are several areas in which the State has adopted a goal or a principle that the revenue from the service should also cover all costs and is not compensated by "other" State revenue. But I hope that it will not become quite universal for the country, because I cannot well imagine that the same principle applies, for example, to health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U265	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U266	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Like me, you are a representative of the opposition in Parliament. This bill is initiated by the emergency government, or coalition. If you had the power today to change this bill according to your will, what would be the questions you'd be raising in this bill? Or would you, as an opposition ambassador, not come to Parliament with such a bill to raise state fees at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U267	Thank you. In general, this is a fundamental question of whether and to what extent documents issued outside Estonia should be subsidised by other incomes. It is not one and very clear here, there is no correct answer, rather it is really a question of convergence. If I should be doing something around here, my first concern, which I also expressed and continue to express in the committee, is that, if these state fees are to be raised, this increase should really be justified only by the costs by which issuing a document outside Estonia is more expensive than it is here. If this is done with a view to finding additional financial coverage for any other expenditure, I consider it unjustified. However, since neither I nor anyone else in the opposition has an accurate view of it, it would probably be very difficult to get it, which in the end will be exactly the costs that arise when documents are issued in different places around the world, how they are distributed in a so-called level manner between all documents issued abroad and what are fair state fees in this case, it is quite difficult to propose amendments to this draft, which would be calculated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U268	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, According to this draft, translation costs will increase four times and amount to EUR 60 per page. It's a page of text, I imagine. But if you have to translate three lines, will it also cost 60 euros, or will some formula calculate how many of these three lines make up the page, and then some more affordable price will be made? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U270	Thank you. It was not specifically asked about this calculation in the Commission, but it is certainly a very correct and justified question in itself. In the event that a number of translations or, according to the draft, a full page price is charged for the validation of the translation, I consider this to be unfounded. The exact same question arises when, for example, three lines are translated more than one page or three lines more than two pages, i.e. every time a page is added that is not full. It is certainly worth turning to the Ministry for a concrete answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U271	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U272	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, My experience here in the Riigikogu says that very often the government coalition votes out some opposition drafts already at first reading, based on the fact that there is some marginal deficit in the draft. The deficit could be corrected with the amendment, but it is not recommended and the draft will be thrown out. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal for a second reading states that following the observations made by the Ministry of Finance, it was decided to include in the draft the amendment of the Identity Documents Act and the amendment of the Consular Act. Consequently, the initiator of the draft had forgotten to mention two important laws. Please, would you explain in the interest of the verbatim report why it is necessary to include amendments to these two laws, to the identity documents law and to the consular law and why they were not in the text of the first reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U273	Thank you. On the basis of history and the way in which the various drafts have been dealt with, this and quite a few other drafts would undoubtedly find a reason to vote them out. Indeed, because the initiator was forced to make improvements to the draft, it must be said that the text that was brought before us at first reading was not perfect. The originator himself admitted that there were mistakes. So if you were to use a formal logic that the coalition often uses, you'd find a reason to vote it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U274	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U275	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The four-fold increase in the price of translation services is explained here by the need for specific knowledge for translation work, etc. This means that the translator is referred to as the reason for raising this fee at all. Is all this money the designated translator's reward, or what part of it goes to the Treasury, and what kind of salary is it going to pay for a certain amount of translation work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U276	Thank you. The exact proportion was not indicated in the Commission, but according to the general logic, it can be assumed that the remuneration would take the form of revenue to the State budget and, according to which expenditure would be paid, would be paid off on the expenditure side. So there's no direct, direct connection between these two. If the translation service has been ordered, in any case, the translator must be paid for the volume of the translation, as it has been done, and for as much as it costs. The price of translation certainly depends on what country it is ordered, which is why the proportion of this 60 euro varies from country to country. So there is no direct link between them, but on average it should at least cover translation costs. Personally, it seems to me that 60 euros should be translated enough and could even be left over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U277	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Let's open the negotiations, and I'll ask for a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U278	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start a little further. Since 2003, economic growth has been high. Together with economic growth, unemployment is falling and life is great, even in Ida-Virumaa, the growth of local budgets is 15 to 20% every year. As a result, unemployment will be at a fantastic level of 4.2% in 2007, the lowest ever. And then there will be a crisis, 2008 and 2009 and soon there will be not 30,000 unemployed in Estonia, which would be more or less a normal number, but 137000. Jobs are very difficult to find, especially with normal pay, and people, instead of sitting around and waiting for the state to come and pay social benefits, all kinds of utilities, family benefits, etc., to deal with this matter and travel out of the country on a massive basis to earn some money. So they do a very great service to the Estonian state because they save a very large amount of money in the social field. It is estimated that approximately 30,000 Estonian people are constantly employed in Finland. These are those who are officially, of course, the number of people working informally, no one knows. But authoritative sociologists believe that 80,000 people are currently employed more or less continuously outside Estonia, perhaps up to 100,000. Imagine if this crowd came back to the country, how many of them would get a job? Pretty few, I think. And once again, this old crap would be: social taxes, retraining, public utility subsidies, child subsidies, etc., huge expenditures from the state budget. Instead of being grateful to these people, for those who have found a living outside Estonia, the state fees will now be increased specifically for them. I don't think that's right. When I look at the table that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made, it lists six countries. Looking at this, it seems that apart from the Czech Republic, which is more or less on the same level as Estonia, the rest of the countries have been put here to make us happy that the rates will increase to figures such as 60, 50, 80 euros, that the state fee for issuing evidence will be increased by only five kroons. Actually, I don't think it's supposed to make money on it. I say once again that we should be grateful to those people who are outside the country and who need to exchange documents, not squeeze them in any way with an additional fee. I think it would be better to maintain the situation that already exists. Separately, I would, of course, talk about translation work. You see, you know my profession, and as far as translation work is concerned, I'm more or less familiar with that. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U279	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U280	Depending on the language, the translation of one page can be EUR 6.12, depending on the language and depending on the difficulty of the text. I've never seen higher prices in offices that translate documents for people. Perhaps there are some institutions that require higher prices, but there is always a choice. Commercial prices are exactly like this: 6 to 12 euros, depending on language and severity. It is now offered to raise the translation fee for one page to 60 euros! And the usual practice is this, I asked my colleague how it is, that if there are three lines on the page, then the page is still a page. There may be just one line, it's your business if you don't want to, don't come, but even a page that's not full of translations is always just a page. I do not think that such a draft should be supported. It is as if we are spitting towards those people who have freed the country from the need to help them and spend money from the state budget. They want another half a million extra revenues at their expense, and it's just ugly. I hope that the Centre Party Group will not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U281	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U282	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I was very sympathized with the presentation by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Because we do not often hear such honest confessions that the place that is still untaxed was indeed found, the money was needed, and now we are going to collect it. He said exactly what it was. He said yes, really, people get nothing more or better for this money, but they get a chance to support their country. After all, state fees have historically been a means of implementing the budget for a very long time and in various forms. By the way, a major breakthrough was made in this regard by Peter I.He was the first to tax the complaints, namely that he thought that the complaint could only be written on a state coat of arms paper, but that the state coat of arms paper was sold for money. You know, when I worked for the district government, I remembered that thing. I figured sometimes you could use a piece of paper like that. There are all kinds of complaints, and people don't always think what they're complaining about. By the way, there are complaints from prisons all over the place, in every instance, in all public authorities, because there's time to sit there that you don't know how to use sensibly. But maybe a person wants to train either his terminology or his literacy. So they write some pretty long complaints, and dozens of officials will have to deal with them. Of course, money has the right to write such a complaint. Anyway, Peter I did put in these crested papers. After they became a little more differentiated, they were different sizes for different things. But this very first option, with a crest of paper, cost a bit of money. There was no small money, there was vodka for it, and the cow paid five rubles at the time. There you go! It got me thinking. But before they took the brawl paper in, it was a little different. It was not regulated by any law, but was probably a practice developed over the centuries. If any of the czar's subordinates, the Tsar of Russia, wanted to file a complaint against an official, he had to go before the land government building and scream out loud: word and deed! With this password he was captured, taken to the house of the county government, beaten up properly first, and after that he was entitled to file a complaint. This new regime, where a piece of paper could be redeemed with a crest, was generally enjoyed by the residents. So I believe that this law itself does not produce much fat blood. All the more so since users are more abroad. My colleagues and I discussed here that it was interesting, after all, not only Estonian passports, but also foreign passports. This is a pretty interesting situation when a foreigner orders a foreigner's passport abroad. Okay, well, you gotta pay for fun like that. A bit of a mischief is that such a way of filling the state budget coincides in time with the search for and finding other ways of filling the state's purse in such a way that the burden rests on the population that is less insured. These are all the other excise duties, they're all excise duties! This is also a matter of health care, of visiting and bed pay, and we are told from this remote control that it is good for the world, it improves the quality of service, it shortens the queues, whatever else. Mr Rannar honestly said that it does not fix anything, just that the country needs money. If money is needed, this is indeed the way complaints can be taxed, air can be taxed, because air is also a state resource. We breathe in pure oxygen, but we breathe out the ghost knows what, especially some citizens on Monday mornings. After all, it's a voluntary thing for a human being whether he breathes or doesn't breathe. Nobody's gonna tell him to do it, so let him. This, of course, is extreme. But when you compare excise duties and income tax, for example, tax on income depends somewhat on the will of a person. If he wants to make more money, he'll consider paying more income tax. He has choices. There's not much of a choice with regard to excise, whether you have a light bulb on the ceiling or not, that we live without light. We can't even see the computer properly. We're ruining our eyes. There's no ophthalmologist's appointment, there's a long line, and we have to pay the visit fee again. If this is how excise goods and services are collected, which are essential to man and which he cannot give up, then it is a conspiracy against his people, because they are simply looking for all the places where they can collect anything. These state fees are also such a small matter, but in the general context, it shows us, like, with a finger in our hands, that this is how the money is collected. What can you do about it is how it goes, it spends a lot of money. There's nothing we can do about it. We have to pay for it. Electricity, I would say that it was probably known a long time ago that the opening up of the electricity market would not lower prices but certainly increase prices. Competition in small territorial units such as Estonia works differently than in the overall European Union or, say, Germany or Australia. There are some rules in Estonia because the size of the market is below the critical limit and competition increases prices. It was probably known that it would, and thus the amount of excise duty received by the state budget will increase. That's why the price of electricity was allowed to rise, even though it could have been avoided. We are protesting against the rise in electricity prices, and we are doing everything we can to make the government understand. But if he's already raising his alcohol excise, then the government, who raises the price of alcohol, doesn't have a long party. We protest against the rise in electricity prices and hope that we will be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U283	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U284	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 19th hour of yesterday's session, we have reached the seventh item. That is why I believe that everyone who still endures in the Chamber realised that Viktor Vassilyev protests against the rise in the price of electricity. But I'm happy to welcome those coalition ambassadors who are still in line or back in line. Good morning, Kaja Kallas. The first thing I have to do today is explain why we're still at point seven. We are concerned that the electricity market will be opened next year and will result in price increases for both households and small businesses. Government departments have the key to mitigating this price increase. I am afraid that there are not many representatives of government departments in this Chamber of Parliament who feel that they are in the circle of decision-makers, but the opportunity to signal to the decision-makers that the use of a lever for stopping price increases may be considered is certainly there. The Chair of the Economic Commission will certainly have a decision-making power. As long as the increase in electricity prices remains inactive, we will continue to make a very thorough improvement in our meetings. Some might say that we are blocking the course of the sitting, but I think it is very normal that the debate on important drafts lasts two or three hours, with five hours for some particularly important ones. Since we have 25 more points to discuss from yesterday and today's agenda, inaction means a lot of sleepless nights for coalition ambassadors. Unfortunately, it also means sleepless nights for opposition ambassadors, but we cannot go to sleep if we see that it is still possible to prevent such a huge increase in electricity prices from 1 January, but we simply do not take advantage of this opportunity. It is difficult for us to go before people and say that we did not put pressure on those who have 51 votes in this Chamber to reduce the electricity excise duty from EUR 4.7 per megawatt-hour to the European Union's minimum rate, which would affect the rise in electricity prices by 4.6% next year. Its impact is three times greater than that of the reduction in the renewable energy fee proposed by Juhan Parts. Together, these two measures would already have a significant impact. So we cannot go before the voters without trying to knock on your conscience in every way we can and say that you have the key to stopping the night sittings and stopping the increase in electricity prices. I don't think you can go before the voters and say that you are doing nothing. We recall that the IRL has signed a contract with the electorate and promised cheaper home expenses, and we recall that the Reform Party came out in 2008 with seven steps to boost the Estonian economy. Step six was that the Reform Party stands for cheaper electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U285	Honourable speaker, you are already dealing with a free microphone voice. We are in the middle of negotiations, and speeches could concern the draft law that is now and now being discussed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U286	That's right. I'm about to get to that bill. Because the IRL and the Reform Party have forgotten their promises, the Central Party Group must hand over to the President of the sitting a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the State Fees Act. We would probably not make this proposal on Thursday morning at 8:32, 18 hours and 32 minutes after the beginning of the session if the price increase was not very high next year. But in order not to take any further breaks, you have the key. That's what I was gonna say. That is why I came to this chair, and I will also come to this debate on the following points, because it is important that you understand what is at stake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U287	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There are no further requests for negotiation. I will close the negotiations and we will examine the amendments. Amendment 1 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U288	I would like to ask for the first amendment to be voted on before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U289	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U290	Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the first amendment of the draft law of 284, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Steering Committee has proposed that this be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 36, there are no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 2: Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U291	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 2 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U292	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U293	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Steering Committee has proposed that this be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 38 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U294	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U295	I would like to ask for the third amendment to be voted, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U296	Good morning from me too! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Please vote! 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments to this law. The Estonian Central Party Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the State Fees Act 284 and we will have to vote through this fine proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U297	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U298	Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U299	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 284 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U300	The second reading of the draft law 288 on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Animals initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I would like to ask my colleague Kalvi Tõud, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U301	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am here before you to amend the Law on the Protection of Animals and, in connection with it, to amend the Law on the Amendment of Other Laws 288. This draft law we dealt with in this Chamber at first reading in the s. On 17 October, and then Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder gave a long and comprehensive overview of it. There is also an explanatory statement on the bill, which I'm sure you've been familiar with, so you know what the bill is made up of. I will focus on the amendments in particular here today at second reading. In the Commission, we discussed this draft law on Monday, 5 November. a. It must be said that the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not submit amendments within the deadline. However, the Rural Affairs Committee itself, in cooperation with both the Ministry and the Estonian Breeders' Association, formulated five amendments. I'll stop them. The first amendment. Paragraph 1 (6) of the draft law amends Paragraph 13 (1) and reads as follows: 'A poultry, rabbit and rabbit kept as an agricultural animal, which are slaughtered outside the slaughterhouse for their own use, must be stunned before slaughter and, if necessary, restricted before stunning. ' The bill that was in this hall at first reading was not a rabbit among these animals. Since it has become clear that we do also have the farms where the rabbit is kept as an agricultural animal, it was appropriate to include the rabbit here. It must be said that this amendment found consensus in the Commission. The second amendment amends the wording of § 13 (7). It was also a matter of first reading in this Chamber; the question was raised by the order of words. The new wording is 'good practice of killing and execution', before it was 'good practice of killing and execution'. In our opinion, it is not appropriate in law to say 'good practice of killing and execution'. Amendment 2 therefore formulates this paragraph in the draft text as follows: 'The Agency for Veterinary and Food publishes on its website and provides the European Commission with guidance on good practice in killing and killing, developed in accordance with Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1099/2009 and approved by the Agency. ' This amendment, too, was supported by a consensus by the lead committee. Proposal No 3 concerns subsection 24 of § 1 of the draft law, which relates to § 44 (6) of the Act. It shall be worded as follows: 'The holder shall submit to the Ministry of Agriculture, by 1 February, a record of each animal test carried out or under way in the previous year. ' The draft, which was in this Chamber at first reading, had no regulation or obligation to submit a protocol to the Ministry of Agriculture by 1 February on an ongoing animal test. So the word 'ongoing' is what is included in the draft law with the amendment. In order to characterise Amendment 4, it can be said that it brings the draft law more closely into line with the Euro Directive. The fifth amendment is motivated by a letter from the Estonian Association of Breeders, where the current Law on Breeding of Farm Animals requires the disclosure of all the information on breeding animals entered in the breeding book and hybrid breeding pigs entered in the breeding register in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. However, given the large number of breeding animals, in particular hybrid breeding pigs and cattle, the obligation to disclose these data is not reasonable or necessary for development purposes. From the point of view of the breeding of all animal species, it is important to disclose only the pedigree and performance data of male animals. Therefore, with this legislative amendment, we commit that the breed society must publish on the website at least the pedigree data of the male animals entered in the breeding book in accordance with the Data Protection Act, because the identity of the owners must be included in these data. All five amendments were supported by consensus by the Commission. The Commission also adopted, at its meeting on 5 November, such consensual decisions: to put a draft law on 288 plenary agendas. By 14 November, propose that the second reading of bill 288 be discontinued and, when the second reading is completed, send the draft to the third reading on 21 November 2012. These proposals were also made by consensus. We also made a decision in the Commission that, when the second reading of the draft law is closed, the proposal is to adopt the draft law as 288. This was not decided by consensus: 5 members of the Commission were in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. I look forward to hearing your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U302	Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. There are a lot of questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U303	Thank you very much, Mr President. A very honourable colleague. Here is § 17, which deals with the slaughter of animals for religious purposes. You usually need a permit to kill like that. But do there also happen to be massive cases that this permit will never be concerned and that animals will be killed in secret? Have you had a conversation with the Commission on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U304	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U305	Thank you. Of course, we have discussed all these issues in the Commission. If we look at the procedures in force, the arrangements for organising and carrying out the killing of an animal for religious purposes have been adopted on 31 July 2001. According to this regulation, in the event of the religious slaughter of an animal, this must be notified in writing to the Food and Veterinary Office ten days before the said operation. This notification shall indicate the species, number, method of slaughter and time of the animals intended to be slaughtered. The local authority of the Food and Veterinary Office must monitor and ensure the presence of a surveillance officer at the slaughtering of the animal. The current regulation is, then, that the religious organization announces and that action is to be seen. According to the bill on our table, this can only be done in slaughterhouses in the future. I sincerely hope that this bill will strengthen control.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! I find this law very interesting because I am a city child and, unfortunately, I have no animals at home either. I'm not a hunter, I couldn't be, because I can't kill animals. But there are some passages that I would like to clarify. For example, Paragraph 6 (2) is supplemented by the following wording: 'A free-living animal intended to be used in an animal test may only be caught by an appropriately qualified person in a manner which does not cause pain, avoidable physical and mental suffering or permanent harm to the animal. ' How is that possible, can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U307	Thank you, my good colleague. It must be said that we did not discuss these issues so specifically at the committee meeting. However, it is not quite the case that all animals can be used for scientific purposes for animal testing. The use of free-living animals, stray animals, endangered animals and also non-human primates is generally prohibited in animal testing. That's what the law says. They may only be used in special cases where the purpose of the test cannot be achieved by other animal. All these exceptions are set out in §§ 36, 37 and 371 of the Animal Protection Act, on page 5 of the Bill. An animal test shall also be prohibited where the purpose of the test can be achieved by other methods or the test relates to the demonstration of compliance with the health requirements of cosmetic products or their constituents. So it is not quite the case that all animals can be used for animal testing. I thought you said that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U308	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U309	Good waitress! The committee was talking about it, but maybe it would be good to know in the big hall. Would you mind telling me why these improvements are being made to this law right now? Does this come from European requirements, or has life itself been proposing that the law should be amended in this way? Would you just talk about it in popular form?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U310	Thank you. The law has two objectives. Indeed, one comes from the Euro Directive, which is intended to regulate experimental animals. It can be said that it is precisely because of the European and global animal welfare objectives that the slaughter is also regulated for religious purposes. We know that in a very large number of European countries this matter is very precisely regulated. There are also countries in Europe where there are no exceptions to the slaughter of farm animals for religious purposes. Since this issue is highly controversial, we must, on the one hand, worry about animal welfare and, on the other hand, also take into account the wishes of different communities, it is imperative that this very complicated matter is regulated at the level of the law. At the moment, this has indeed been done only by a decree of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U311	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U312	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I will continue with the previous question and ask for clarification. Do you have information about which Member States of the European Union or outside Europe, but close to it, is it forbidden to execute animals for religious purposes or without stunning?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U313	Thank you. Given the conflicting nature of the field, a project such as Dialrel was launched in the European Union, which ended in 2010. The project collected the available scientific data on religious slaughter and the rules governing the execution of religious slaughter in different countries. Consultations with religious communities identified different religious practices and discussed the possibility of introducing scientifically proven innovations into religious killing procedures. Based on this information, I can tell you that the slaughter of animals without previous stunning is prohibited in Sweden. In essence, killing without prior stunning is also prohibited in Luxembourg, where there is a so-called gentlemen's agreement under which permits for such slaughter are not issued, even though such a possibility exists by law. Nor has the exemption been used to kill without previous stunning in Denmark or Finland. In Finland, I have to say, there are different rules. In the Åland region, killing without stunning is prohibited by law. In other parts of Finland, the law allows the animal to be slaughtered for religious purposes, provided that the stunning takes place at the same time as the cut being carried out. In Cyprus, too, the exemption provided for in the Act has not been used for the slaughter of animals without prior stunning. These were the countries of the European Union. The killing of animals without prior stunning is also prohibited in Norway and New Zealand. That would be the whole picture of all the world's powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U314	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U315	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I understand that if we want to eat the pig, we must ensure that he leaves in complete peace of mind and without any pain. The only thing missing is that someone should read him his rights. But if we want to eat a boar, that boar can be chased around the woods screaming, shot him in the legs, in the groin, in the stomach, in the head, and dogs bark. Isn't this not a matter of discrimination? One is a pig and the other is a pig, just living geographically in a little different regions, has a slightly different skin color and speaks a slightly different language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U316	A good colleague, we did not discuss the different animal protection rights of different pigs, domestic pigs and wild boars in the Committee on Rural Affairs this time. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U317	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U318	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Paragraph 181 (3) states that a test animal may be killed if it is scientifically proven to be humane. It is not very clear to me how to understand humane killing and how it is scientifically proven.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U319	Dear colleague, in answering this question, too, it must be said that we did not address this in the Commission. Well, I guess it's humane to these things that can be philosophical here, but it has to be said that it's not quite the case that we can use all animals in animal testing. It can also be said that animal testing is indeed prohibited if the purpose of the test can be achieved by other methods. That's my answer to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U320	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U321	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs! Thank you very much for your very constructive answers to the questions. This is an emotional bill, and every day, or very often in this Chamber, we don't discuss such an ugly thing as killing animals. My question is: how much does this bill affect the killing of animals at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U322	This bill also has some effect on the killing of small animals at home. The bill states that small animals must be slaughtered at home under the conditions laid down in the relevant regulation, i.e. before slaughter the animal must be stunned. All these stunning practices are described in the Annex to the Regulation, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. One important point that is added to the draft legislation under discussion is that the killer of a small animal must be a competent person and must have previous experience. We also discussed at length in the Commission how it will be identified, where this person has gained such competence and who will have to check it. Since there's no need to report the killing of a small animal at home, how can an officer from the Veterinary and Food Board come and check it out? Here, too, we had a lot of questions left behind in the Commission, but the majority of the Members of the Commission felt that not all things had to be regulated. We also rely on the benevolent and humane nature of small animal keepers, so that they really stun the animal before they kill, as they must.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U323	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U324	Thank you. Good performer! This law is really very detailed, and so is my question. Although the law speaks very thoroughly about the humane execution of animals, it still gives the appalling impression that the stress of animals before death has not yet been brought close to zero. What do you think of that? Was that what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U325	Yeah, sure. Well, stunning before killing means moving an animal to a state where he doesn't sense the moment of killing, and from here to the basic core of this law. Exceptions have also been made. Exceptions are made to religious organizations for religious reasons, allowing the animal to be slaughtered without previous stunning. That is, for the specific reasons that they have brought out. This is subject to more stringent supervision, control under this Act. They can no longer do so themselves at home, simply notifying the Food and Veterinary Office, but from now on it will be done at the slaughterhouse. The amount that is allowed to be killed, too, is no longer their own discretion, but they must coordinate it. The number of animals that one or the other community may kill for non-humane reasons or under conditions shall be reported to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U326	Please, Mr Velman, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U327	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! To be honest, the text is very touching, and I even think that alongside the Animal Protection Act, we could have a human protection law, because there are such touching words here. For example, animals caught, injured or in poor health status shall be examined by a veterinarian or by an appropriately qualified person who shall, where appropriate, take measures to reduce the suffering of the animal. It can change, it can apply to a person. I have a very specific question. The draft law has repeatedly used the term "colony of experimental animals." Can you give us an example of a colony like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U328	Now is an embarrassing moment, a good questioner. We had no mention of this at the Commission meeting, and although I have worked through this law both during the readings in the Commission and before I came here before you, I have not raised this question for myself, and I do not know how to name such colonies. I guess they're probably at our research facilities. But if you want, I can check it out and give you a written answer. Our official Ülle will write down the question and we will give it an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U329	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U330	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Paragraph 36 (5) of the Act prohibits animal testing for the purpose of developing tobacco products. Perhaps you can tell us whether we have someone in Estonia who is developing tobacco products.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U331	Thank you, good questioner! There was no mention of this at the committee meeting. I really don't know how to say it. It is true that experimental animals must not be used for this purpose. Test animals shall also not be used in the perfumery industry or in cosmetic tests. I can tell you that because we had a few words about it in the Commission, but I cannot respond better to tobacco products.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U332	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U333	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I am not part of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I am part of the Committee on Culture. I guess that's why I'm interested in training and vocational training. Training in the killing of farm animals has great experience in Estonia, as in other countries of German cultural space. Two or three centuries ago, vocational training took place in the butchers' tsunamis, where the champions had to go through the years of apprenticeships and the years before them, and in front of the demanding commission, the masterpiece was called the masterpiece. Even the executioner's Tsunft aspires made a screen, but that's a separate subject. Where and under what conditions will training on the slaughter of farm animals be carried out under the law currently under consideration? What is the procedure for taking the exam, who pays for it, either the student, the employer or the state? And really, what is this masterpiece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U334	Thank you. This is the issue we discussed in the Commission. Since there really must be such competence and training in the killing of a small animal at home now, we were also talking in the Commission about who is giving such a witness and what the certificate must be. I can tell you that the training is regulated by § 131 and § 132 of the Animal Protection Act, according to which the training is carried out either by the Veterinary and Food Board or by the Adult Education Institution and is issued by the Veterinary and Food Board. The law does not regulate who pays for the training. If until now only the worker who took the animal's life had to be trained in the meat industry, then from now on the training must also be provided by other workers in the meat industry. As far as I know, there is a vocational education centre in Estonia, which is in Järvamaa, which already provides such training. How's this going to go on? The official in the Commission explained that this really is a question. As a result of the law, our adult education and vocational training centres must also begin to complement this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U335	Please, Mr Lenk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U336	Thank you. I will ask a little outside the Commission's work. You have seen much of this pig slaughter in Estonia and you are a famous farmer. I was wondering now whether the Estonians had such a custom, or whether we suddenly knew about folklore, whether we would, for example, have a small prayer before killing a domestic animal, or whether we would turn to God in a sense, or whether we would all be pagans: immediately to the head and ready!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U337	Thank you, my good colleague. There have been all kinds of situations in life. As a person living on earth, this is indeed one of the activities that must be done in very many rural areas, especially before Christmas. It doesn't know what fun and fun it is. Of course, when killing animals at home, care must be taken to ensure that all the necessary actions and rules are followed so that the animal's patience is the least. And, of course, you must also be careful not to hurt your soul in this most pleasant activity. So it's the symbiosis of animal and human beliefs. The law also includes the killing for religious purposes, where, on the one hand, there is an animal, its suffering, and, on the other hand, there are man, his religious and needs-based conditions. It's not like killing a farm animal at home, it's for food. This is where these two very difficult things need to be tied.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U338	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U339	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for your meaningful and interesting answers. I'm sorry I haven't been following your report since the beginning. Maybe in your report you've already given the answer to what I'm asking you right now. Here's my question. Is there anything in the law about the conditions under which the Food and Veterinary Office may refuse to issue a permit for the slaughter of a farm animal for religious purposes? Is there a point like this inside, could you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U340	Thank you. The question is, under what conditions the Food and Veterinary Office may refuse to authorise the slaughter of an animal for religious purposes. Yes, it is written, that we discussed briefly in the Commission. It says, if you want to watch, in section 1 point 10 of the bill. It states that the Food and Veterinary Office may refuse to authorise the slaughter of an agricultural animal for religious purposes if the applicant does not comply with the requirements laid down in this section; if the circumstances described in the application do not comply with the relevant requirements laid down in this section or in Council Regulation (EC) No 1099/2009 or in Council Regulation (EC) No 1099/2009; if the slaughter of an agricultural animal described in the application is not related to the religious tradition of the religious community; if the number of farm animals intended to be slaughtered in the application is disproportionate to the need for members of a religious association; if false information is given in the application. There are five points where the Food and Veterinary Office may refuse to grant such authorisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U341	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take the board break until 10:00. Then let's continue. Closure of the sitting at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U342	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the 21st November briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 38 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 63 are missing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U343	Let's get to the first question. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Ester Tuiksoo Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip. The question is about the financial perspective. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! On October 26, s. a, speaking at a farmers' conference in Tartu, the chairman of your coalition partner promised the following: 'Until we receive an appropriate level of direct payments, we will not approve the European Union's budget plan either. ' Tomorrow you will be at the Council. Have you and your coalition partner talked about this? How do you behave in the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U345	Thank you. We have, of course, discussed the developments and possible scenarios of the multiannual budgetary plan in the coalition. We also have a common position on priorities. Our most important goal is to achieve the best possible net position for Estonia. Estonia is known to have concerns in a number of areas. One thing you have already mentioned is a common agricultural policy. The level of direct payments, as it stands, does not satisfy us. 58,6% of the European Union average is not acceptable in our view. The second problem relates to the ceiling of the Cohesion Fund. The ceiling we're planning now doesn't satisfy us. We feel that Estonia is being punished with this ceiling for rapid reforms. This is not acceptable to us. Thirdly, we want the Connecting Europe Facility to be financed on the scale proposed by the European Commission, but we know that there is a great deal of opposition to it. Coalition partners are not willing to make any ranking in these three priority areas for Estonia. All these matters are important to us. But let it be said once again that the most important thing is the net position that is as good as possible for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U346	The first question to be specified, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U347	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm glad to hear about these priorities in Estonia and your determination. But I ask you more specifically: in this case, do you intend to oppose the draft budget tomorrow at the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U348	No, it does not make sense for Estonia to oppose the budget plan. Speaking specifically about the single direct payments for agriculture that motivated the first question, it goes without saying that the poor options offered by the European Commission, the Presidency or Herman Van Rompuy to farmers are much more useful for Estonian farmers than the continuation of the current situation. It is certainly not in the interests of Estonian farmers to veto the budget, but it is in the interests of our farmers to bring the volume of direct payments at least to the level of Romanian aid. That is what I intend to stand for in the Council. I think that there will be enough vetoers there without Estonia. The worst case scenario for us is failure to reach an agreement on the budget and also failure to reach a political agreement if there is no budgetary agreement between the 27 Member States. We want the budget. If we do not get the full budget, we want at least a political agreement between most countries on how to proceed from the current level of the financial perspective to the annual budgets in the future. However, I am an optimist, and I hope that we will come to an agreement on the new budget plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U349	The second point, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U350	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! The President of the Republic of Estonia made an interesting statement at the farmer's conference on 6 November, saying that if we do not get more competitive conditions than Europe, we will sue the European Union. Again, a make-believe promise, maybe even giving us hope. How do you comment on that promise? Have you also considered the possibility of going to court on behalf of Estonia if all these wishes are not fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U351	Thank you. First of all, we will still go to the Council and try to make an agreement. I wouldn't be discussing Plan B, C or D at a time when we haven't properly started discussing the original plan, Plan A. As soon as we tackle Plan B or C, we can forget about Plan A. I would like to focus on reaching an agreement on the budget right now. I'm going to the Council tonight. The Council begins tomorrow, probably the night before the day after tomorrow, with the most heated discussions. But basically, these discussions may also continue on Friday, Friday night, against Saturday and Saturday. I very much hope that the Heads of State and Government of the coming countries will have the will to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U352	Now three issues registered on the spot. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U353	Thank you. Prime Minister! If this financial perspective is to be extended to Estonia, then it must be said that the budget for the coming year is rather poor, which is why the Centre Party is forced to hold night meetings, while the President is forced to organise round tables, because Estonia's democracy is in crisis. You've been accused of arrogance and your party of lies, black schemes. Hence my question: have you considered, Mr Prime Minister, with your party associates, that you could resign from the position of Prime Minister or Chairman of the party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U354	Is that the issue now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U355	I have a request that we stick to the subject of the financial perspective. But if the Prime Minister wishes to respond, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U356	Yes! Heimar Lenk is already such an experienced member of the Riigikogu that he knows that it is not wise for the chairman and prime minister of the most popular party in Estonia to initiate a government crisis when very serious financial issues are being discussed. That doesn't make any sense. Such discussions may be held in the office of the Centre Party, but they are not serious alternatives to society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U357	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U358	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! When we look at our public finances, it feels like money is missing everywhere. We can see how participation in health care is increasing because of the increase in day and visit fees for beds, the only way to raise teachers' salaries is through the fingertips and the need for municipalities to look for it, the income support is frozen and the household consumer is left alone on the electricity market, although people in a large part of the European countries are protected in this case. They say there's no money. Actually, it's like there's money somewhere. See how banks and other foreign companies get their profits out of here tax-free. For example, the profit of the Hansapank Group was 400 million euros last year, but Estonia only received 2 million euros in taxes, i.e. 0.5%. Why do we allow it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U359	Ladies and gentlemen! You probably know perfectly well that the profits of companies have been taxed in Estonia. All companies pay income tax in the same way as private individuals pay, at the same rate. In Estonia, only reinvested profits have not been taxed. If a company invests its profits in Estonia in order to create new jobs here, this profit is not taxed. The dividend income has been taxed in Estonia. If someone takes profits out of Estonia, they also have to pay income tax. The reference to corporate tax as a huge source of income that could be distributed to anyone who misses something is inappropriate. Companies pay income tax on their profits when that profit is taken out of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U360	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U361	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Prime Minister! I, too, ask about the payments paid to farmers. As we know, the Belarus tractor leaving Estonia tomorrow arrives in Brussels, which should show that there are problems with the subsidies paid to farmers in the Baltic countries, including Estonia. The agricultural organisations have collected 25000 signatures and sent them to the Agriculture Commissioner. In addition, the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian Parliament has addressed Brussels with proposals and requests to increase the agricultural subsidies paid by the European Union. Do you think that such background aid and these background forces, whether they include driving a tractor to Brussels, collecting signatures or addressing requests adopted by the committee, will the Council be able to help you deal with these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U362	Thank you. Of course, all such actions will help. The Minister of Agriculture has had several meetings with the leading figures of the European Union. I, too, have had meetings specifically on direct payments for agriculture. Of course, such expressions of mind and actions make our message easier to understand. I can assure you that, in the European Parliament, regardless of which group it is, it is widely understood that 58.6% of the European Union average is not fair to support farmers. I am talking about the European People's Party, the Socialists, the Liberals. At the level of the European Parliament, it is perfectly understood that the level of direct payments currently planned for farmers in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is not reasonable. Whether this understanding will eventually be reflected in the budget is a question of its own. Let's hope it does. I'm gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U363	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U364	Let's move on to the second question. Marika Tuus-Laul, a member of the Riigikogu, has submitted it, is answered by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and the topic is Peipsi onion. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U365	Thank you. Dear Minister, You certainly know that the Peipsiveere Support Group has been formed in the Riigikogu. There are a lot of problems, both in terms of fishing and onion from Peipsi. We've been there, and a lot of people there have been here and at your ministry. Yesterday, your representatives were here, too, and we received answers to a lot of questions. But I'm still asking you. Peipsi onion growing is a hundred-year tradition, it's very specific. How can we ensure that we do not get Polish onions from the shop (for example, Southern Centre and Konsumit) to the head of Peipsi onion? What do you think should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U366	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Agriculture has been discussing this issue. We are trying very hard to contribute to the sale of local products and to the fact that there is more local production, including Peipsi onion, which is known and known historically at least in Estonia. I think you, with your question, helped make this onion known and did a good commercial for her. I'm sure trading chains are starting to get more and more interested in Peipsi onions. When trying to deceive the consumer, the Ministry of Agriculture does not have to fight, but cheating on the consumer is a violation of trade rules and should be monitored by consumer protection. We have also received complaints about such fraud in relation to other foodstuffs, such as Poll's apples, when the goods are sold under the label of Estonian food, but it is actually foreign goods. In particular, the Consumer Protection Board and the Food and Veterinary Office must ensure that the name of the goods corresponds to what the goods are and that the quality of the goods is checked. As a general rule, these organisations have also responded and eliminated the situation if they have received complaints or any comments. So it is my recommendation to address these institutions, the Food and Veterinary Office and the Consumer Protection Board. Together, we can eradicate this fraud. There are no better solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U367	The first question to be specified, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U368	Thank you. I'm gonna try to popularize Peipsi onion a little more. Not all onions grown by Peipsi are Peipsi onions, but they are a specific variety and not only varieties, but they are grown differently from regular onions. They are made by hand, do not use tractors or fertilisers, etc. But how do we maintain all this and go on with it so that these people will also receive European subsidies? We know that it is probably necessary to draw up a quality scheme, establish a non-profit organisation and provide data to the VTA. But all this requires money, and it is the poorest rural municipality in Estonia. Where can these people get that money? Can you give me any advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U369	Thank you. They would certainly receive this advice from the Ministry of Agriculture, including the Office for Agricultural Registers and Information, and I think that there are other authorities in the area of government, such as the Food and Veterinary Office. So the authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture can get information from them. If you have meetings with Peipsi onion growers, please inform them that information on the aid can be obtained. One option here is food quality schemes, where producer groups must be set up. It will take some time, but as a result, it will be possible to bring out the specifics of Peipsi onion and receive financial support for it. In addition, there are other subsidies that we pay from both the budget of the Estonian state and the budget of the European Union. These are market development aids (they can also be added), area payments and also organic payments, when agricultural products are grown softly, but this requires the completion of the corresponding preparation process. It is, of course, difficult to obtain support overnight, but faster subsidies are also possible, such as annual market development support from the state budget. Longer-term organic payments require a transitional period. So the requirements and conditions for applying for grants are different. The best solution is if they turn to the Ministry of Agriculture, the PRIA or the Food and Veterinary Office and receive information and assistance from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U370	Now two issues registered on the spot. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! The "Estonian Food" project is carried out in the Ministry of Agriculture, mildly said, modestly. I think that if this activity had been a little more successful, then Peipsi onions would now be more successful in the market. How much have you planned for next year's budget for the "Estonian Food" project?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U372	Thank you. Undoubtedly, many projects could be more spectacular and more funded than the Estonian state would have more money. You can't argue with that. I'll tell you about this program, it's modest, but ambitious. The project has survived and survived difficult times. What will be the "Estonian Food" project in 2013, is not yet fully clear. The state budget procedure is ongoing in the Riigikogu. After the state budget has been adopted, we can confirm the types of expenditure within the ministry in terms of the manner in which the cost items are used. We have not done so because the state budget procedure has not ended. I can assure you that in next year's budget, the 'Estonian Food' project will certainly not be smaller than this year. We are still talking about millions of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U373	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U374	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, Peipsi onion is a very good onion and, unlike many other onions, even makes peeling cry, which is known to be a very good quality feature. Mrs Tuus here described the agrotechnics and seed material of Peipsi onion with great skill and knowledge. I have this question: if I follow this agrotechnic properly and use the right seed, can onion grown in Viljandi bear the name Peipsi onion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U375	Thank you. It is difficult for me to answer that question because I am not an expert. This needs to be seriously discussed and analysed. As a politician and Minister of Agriculture, I have repeatedly been in a difficult situation where there has been a vote on whether one or the other breed has survived in Estonia or not. It should be up to scientists and experts to decide. The same is true of these varieties. That's what scientists and experts should say. But I think it will probably remain a monopoly on Peipsiveere, because there is also such a cultural-geographical aspect. In the European Union, there is even a geographical indication. This could also be applied for onion by means of a quality scheme. Getting this mark would mean that this mark could not be used elsewhere and therefore only goods produced in this region should be marketed under that mark. At the moment, I can say that it is most likely that Peipsi onions can still be grown only by Peipsi, if it is legally so formulated and fixed in quality schemes. An onion grown in Viljandi could be Mulgi onion or something.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U376	No further questions. Let's stop talking about Peipsi onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U377	Let us move on to the next question. That's the third question in Question Time today. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, a member of the Government of the Republic, Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the topic is the border agreement between Estonia and Russia. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U378	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, in cooperation with all the political groups and the League of Democrats of the Riigikogu, proposed to the government that consultations with Russia be opened with a view to concluding a border agreement satisfying both parties. Life in Estonia has been relatively stormy lately. We all know that there have been a number of steps by the NGOs. For the second week, the state budget will be processed here in the Riigikogu Hall for the following year. The increase in electricity prices has also attracted great attention. We believe that everything relating to the border agreement has been put in the background. When I meet the people of Southeast Estonia, they remind me of it from time to time and knock on my conscience. This topic is extremely important to many people, and it is extremely important to the Estonian state as well. My question is: how have the consultations been?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U379	Thank you for your question. It was perhaps only weeks ago that this issue was discussed in the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs. So this has also been the case recently in Parliament. One meeting of representatives of the Estonian and Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the consultations was scheduled to take place on the last day of October and the next will most likely be on 10 December. While the first meeting was mainly this first meeting between those who hold these consultations, the December meeting is expected to also look at the possible text of the agreements. However, as I have said many times, and as it is clear, these consultations do not cover this part of the text of the border agreements on the crossing of the border line, which was negotiated for eleven years until 2005.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U380	The first question to be specified, Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U381	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Thank you for your answer. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Lauri Bambus, has said in the newspaper Postimees that the introduction of the Tartu Peace Treaty into a specific contract is not the most topical, but he stressed that it is vital for the Estonian state. At present, consultations and all information give the impression that both countries are very keen to have a properly-marked border between countries in the future, and the aim is to reach the point of ratification of the Treaty by the parliaments of both countries. As a Member of Parliament myself, I would not want such a procedure to scare the Treaty coming to ratification and to be a flexible and legally binding border agreement. The Riigikogu plays a very important role here. What could be the form of work so that members of the Riigikogu are also informed about the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U382	After all, the Riigikogu has presented the form to the government by means of a joint letter from its political groups and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It says that the border agreements are expected to be in force, following the principle of legal continuity. In this sense, the Riigikogu has given its framework to these consultations very clearly. These consultations are exactly within these frameworks. Similarly, it has been agreed with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu that there will be a very close exchange of information through the Foreign Affairs Committee both before and after all consultative meetings. This also happened recently. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs where we last talked about this, not only members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs participated, but also all other interested members of the Riigikogu. So one very clear form of work in this Parliament is participation in this meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs where these issues are discussed, both before and after the round of talks. But I would like to stress once again that these 'frames' were very clearly established by the Riigikogu in its joint letter of all political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U383	The second point of clarification, Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U384	Thank you. Dear Minister, There has been a rumor in the press and in the Commission that another party, Russia, has proposed the reopening of the talks on the border agreement, and we have adopted it nicely. The border agreement is certainly a good and necessary thing for the Estonian state, but fear for the future remains. Knowing that the Russian Federation is hoping for a visa-free regime with the European Union soon, this inevitable doubt arises that that is why they urgently need a border agreement. Does the Estonian state now have a great need to enter into consultations and do we have a great need for a border agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U385	Of course, I hope that all possible fears and fears will still be as little as possible. You don't have to be scared and scared all the time. The fact that countries have border agreements with their neighbours is a common practice in international life. The absence of border agreements is the exception rather than the rule. So if there is a national border between countries, it is usually fixed by the corresponding document, or the border agreement. This is the usual way, and I see no reason why Estonia and Russia should be an exception here. As far as who needs it, I think that because of international practice, it is necessary for both sides. I think if you try to think over or mysticize, fearing that there might be some really subtle ulterior motive, it's not going anywhere. As far as visa liberalisation between the European Union and Russia is concerned, consultations or talks between the European Union and Russia have been taking place for some time. There are a number of conditions that have been put in place to allow these talks to end in a positive way. These terms are public. So there is certainly no point in looking for any hidden agenda or aspects. I think that now that we have been able to shape things as we wish for 21 years in Estonia, we could be much more confident in this regard. Speaking about the same issue of legal consistency, we also have to say that we know very well that there is legal consistency in Estonia, the Republic of Estonia was declared in 1918. You can't always suspect there's some kind of bilateral agreement somewhere that might call this principle into question. Estonia operates very clearly in the international community, we have been accepted into important international organisations and no one has challenged our legal continuity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U386	Minister, your time is up. Now two issues registered on the spot. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U387	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is one of the longest-serving foreign ministers in the European Union! How often in your practice, when you meet with your colleagues, foreign ministers, has it become a problem that we do not have a de jure Estonian-Russian border agreement, even though it is de facto there? Has that been a problem? Have you ever done this in your practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U388	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U389	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U390	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is a good thing that the question of the border agreement between Russia and Estonia has been brought to the table again and is being actively dealt with. But my question concerns the practical crossing of the border. We know there's a problem here. Only recently did the Chancellor of Justice point out that the Tax and Customs Board is bullying people, etc. Will both countries also deal with the practical issues of crossing borders in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U391	No, these consultations are only to determine whether a common solution can be found so that those border agreements, the content of which was agreed in 2005, can enter into force. Any technical aspects falling within the competence of other authorities and ministries shall not be discussed in these consultations. They will be dealt with in all other formats; there will be economic, European and political consultations with the Russian Federation. So the problems of border crossing and related issues have been addressed and will continue to be addressed in these traditional and regular consultations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U392	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U393	We move to the fourth question asked by Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu, is answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, and the subject is the increase in electricity prices. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U394	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! Last Saturday, I had two meetings with the people in Kuressaare and Orissaare. For obvious reasons, too, the issue was the increase in electricity prices and the choice of package that needs to be done before 10 December. People talked about how the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has sent brochures on what needs to be noticed when choosing a package. All of this is very welcome and grateful, but people have a real question about how and where you can choose this package if you do not have a computer or an Internet connection. To be quite honest, I owed you an answer and promised to ask you as Prime Minister. How should people who do not have a computer or Internet connection choose the package? None of the information points offer this possibility. Eesti Post offers the possibility to conclude an agreement with Eesti Energia. But where does a person living in a country who is often retired still have to choose this package?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U395	Thank you. It's pretty rare that there's no access to the Internet at all. If there is no Internet connection at home, there are public Internet points. On Earth, there are Internet points in libraries, for example. If the citizen really has such a technical concern that there is no access to the Internet, I believe that all local authorities are ready to help such a citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U396	The first question to be specified, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U397	Thank you. Hence my first point of clarification. I, too, believe that local authorities could and should come here to help people. For example, Tallinn has created nine such information points where you can ask for advice. The staff member shall, if necessary, assist in the selection on the Internet and shall also provide technical assistance. Do you think that other Estonian municipalities could create information points? For example, the City Council of Kuressaare will probably discuss this at its meeting tomorrow. What's your position? Should the state and local authorities help people in these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U398	Thank you. I think right now our people are complaining about information overload. Since there's a lot of information, it's hard to make a choice. They want to get more analysis, different persons' assessments of the packages offered. If the local authority is an authoritative judge, it is only welcome if the local authority really comes to the aid of the citizen. I have also said before that joining the package is not something that should necessarily be rushed. If a package seems much more useful to the consumer than a general service, then haste is of course useful, as money is saved. If, on the other hand, there is no clarity, it makes sense to postpone the decision until the evaluations of the various social groups come into the packages. I guess we can make that merger decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U399	The second point of clarification, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U400	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I agree with you on this point that we rather have information overload. Companies send their brochures and promotional materials, and there are 86 packages of which it is very difficult to choose. The question is, rather, that people lack real technical assistance, how to choose this package. But my third question concerns the price of electricity. The Centre Party has proposed a reduction in electricity excise duty. The European Union has set a minimum rate of EUR 1. The Estonian state has increased it to 4.5 times, which is 4,47 euros in excise duty in Estonia. Do you still think that it is right not to support the proposal of the Centre Party, not to come to the aid of people and not to lower the electricity excise duty as early as next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U401	Thank you. Yes, I continue to believe that it is unreasonable to lower the electric excise duty. We remember that we introduced electric excises because European regulations require the introduction of electric excises. However, we did not impose this electricity excise duty on an empty space, but when we introduced an electricity excise, we lost the air pollution charge imposed on electricity generation. The excise duty replaced the air pollution charge. I can say that this practice has also been implemented in another Member State of the European Union. I am now reminded, for example, of Denmark, where the electricity excise tax paid by the household consumer also includes the charge for carbon dioxide emissions, i.e. the charge for air pollution, and this excise duty is as much as 24 times that of Estonia. In the Netherlands, electricity excise duty is 25.5 times higher than in Estonia. In Sweden it is 7.1 times larger, significantly larger than in Estonia. So there are very different practices. If the electricity excise tax is completely abolished in Estonia, this means that 33 million euros will not be collected in the budget. This means that either pensions must be reduced or social assistance must not be provided. That doesn't make any sense. If the excise duty is abolished, it will not be the poorest, those who need the help of the state, but those who consume the most electricity will win. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U402	Let us now go to the issues registered on the ground. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U403	In answer to my question of how foreign companies are taking profits out of here, you said that this question was inappropriate. I say that the answer was inappropriate, because we are unique in the world with our income tax system, where not all the profits of the company are taxed, but only the money taken out as a dividend. But now for electricity. The business day recently published Eurelectic data from the Electricity Industries Association, which stated that 19 of the 27 Member States regulate the price of electricity for domestic consumers. This means that electricity prices will be regulated in the European Union even after the market has opened. For people with poor incomes and invalids, a preferential price has been set. Why don't we do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U404	Thank you. This is, of course, the question of the choice of social assistance systems. Tax money is collected in Estonia and assistance is provided to people either financially or as a service. In some countries, such as the United Kingdom, different VAT rates are also used to provide social assistance. In some countries, different reduced commodity prices are used to help social groups in difficulty. It's a question of choice. In Estonia, the current system of income support has well justified itself. Income support does indeed reach those in need. I would argue that the effectiveness of the social assistance system is crucial in difficult circumstances. If aid is granted through different tax rates or goods are sold cheaper to certain social groups, then the effectiveness of State aid is not, in my opinion, at the level that it is when income support is paid directly to those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U405	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U406	Thank you. Prime Minister! When you answered my colleague's question, you gave examples of Denmark and Sweden. But there's a difference in pay. Our pensioners and low-paid workers will certainly suffer as a result of such a high increase in electricity prices, which is on average 16 to 20%. I want to ask you why you have not taken into account the proposals of the Social Democrats, which have foreseen how to lower the price of electricity. We have also proposed, analogous to the Centre Party, a reduction in electricity excise duty to the minimum level of the European Union. Why do you not want to help the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U407	Thank you. By collecting 33 million euros from the electricity excise duty, we are helping the Estonian people through this budget. We help those who really need help. If there had been no electricity excise duty in Estonia, if the tax on air pollution had not been replaced by excise duty in its time, it would have created better conditions of competition for imported electricity. But let us admit that we can also get air pollution in the case of electricity imported from Russia into Estonia anyway. Thus, excise duty protects our market to some extent against cheaper imported electricity. This aspect, too, should not be forgotten. I would not want to put our producers in a worse competitive position than the producers beyond the border whose pollution we are getting here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U408	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U409	Prime Minister! As a Social Democrat, I will continue the same line of solidarity as Mr Pikhofki, thinking about pensioners, young families, single mothers and what happens to them when the price of electricity rises. I'm gonna ask you a question to find out how much you know about real life farther away from Stenbock's house. How big was your family's power bill last month?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U410	My electricity bill was 57 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U411	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U412	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Prime Minister! The revenue from the electricity excise duty is essentially the same as the amount paid into the ESM contribution, i.e. EUR 30 million. In this situation, where the increase in electricity prices is so steep, would it not be wise for the Estonian state not to make 30 million + 30 million contributions to the ESM next year, but to pay only 30 million euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U413	Thank you. I am, of course, rather uncomfortable to answer such questions as, on one hand, the stability of the country and of the euro area and, on the other hand, the problems arising from price increases. They are not comparable. Just as I do not understand those who say that there is no point in financing the protection of the state in Estonia at all, better to spend the money anywhere else, I do not understand those who believe that the stability of the euro zone is something that does not affect the Estonian people at all. Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U414	Now two more questions have been registered on the spot. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Prime Minister! There has been a lot of talk lately about the price of electricity. We know that the retail price of electricity in Estonia is 40% to 50% network charges, while in other European countries the share of network charges is 30% on average. I have drawn the attention of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the fact that we sometimes build golden nets, i.e. technically too expensive. For example, do you think it is right to replace meters for the third time in the last ten years? Considering that Eesti Energia has 800000 customers, one round of switching meters costs 60 million euros. Shouldn't the Ministry of Economic Affairs be involved in this so-called 'golden nets'?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U416	Thank you. I do not agree with the question of the construction of networks. We need to build nets. The networks have been in a relatively poor position as a legacy of Soviet times. Investments in this area are absolutely necessary. In some ways, we can compare Estonia's current situation with the situation in East Germany ten years ago. For example, water tariffs in East Germany were then four or five times higher than in West Germany, despite the fact that wages in East Germany were much lower than in West Germany. But the reason was clear to everyone. While the necessary investments were constantly made in West Germany for 50 years, they were not made in East Germany. Our transmission networks are actually in the same kind of investment shortage. What has not been done in its time must be made up for now. I do agree with you on the issue of meters. I, too, do not consider it appropriate to switch meters so frequently, even though I understand those who are involved in this exchange. The argument is, in particular, that the new meters will reduce electricity losses very strongly and ultimately the investment will be profitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U417	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U418	Thank you! Prime Minister! I almost agree with your few answers on compensating for the rise in electricity prices, despite the fact that the limit of living is a matter of its own. However, the question is that child benefits are currently included in income when calculating income support. For a family who will receive child benefit based on needs from mid-year or July, this additional child benefit of over EUR 9 will not be included in this calculation, but for a family that will not receive this needs-based child benefit, it will be EUR 19 and 18 cents in the calculation. As regards the increase in electricity prices, their situation will not change and the municipality will probably compensate for all of this. In fact, families, especially families with children, would be much easier to cope with if this EUR 19 were not included in the income. Why do you not want to take into account the proposal put forward by the opposition parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U419	Thank you. I guess a good questioner knows why. It's a question of lack of money. If the state had enough money, perhaps the way the Social Democrats have wished, it could triple the child benefits or, as I would like to say, 30 times it. But, unfortunately, our resources are limited and we have to manage the resources available. What leads to being overpowered is what we see today in the example of a very large number of European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U420	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U421	Happy Members of the Riigikogu and Honourable Members of the Government! We've been through all the registered questions. At the same time, there will be a few minutes left until the end of Question Time. If anyone wants to ask, please press the "Word" key and tell me who and what you are asking. Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U422	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Agriculture. We are rightly concerned here about people, democracy and everything else. But in the meantime, I'm gonna ask you again about the horses. We were just talking about Tori's horses and keeping Tori's horse register. In the meantime, it has happened that your so-called sub-office, the Veterinary and Food Board, which gave the Estonian Horse Farmers' Association, as if an old breed, the right to keep Tori's horse to another company, has suffered a loss in court. What does the ministry or minister think will happen to this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U423	Thank you for your question. There are a number of problems here. One is keeping a herd-book and stopping it. The second issue concerns the existence of the old Tori breed as an independent breed or not, how to solve this problem within the so-called Tori breed. I had a meeting with representatives of the Estonian Horse Farmers' Association on Monday, and we agreed that on Thursday all parties will be around the table and hopefully a good solution will be found to the problem. At 12 noon today, a meeting began at the Ministry of Agriculture, with representatives of the Veterinary and Food Board, the Estonian Horse Farmers' Association and also the Ministry of Agriculture. I believe that we will find such a solution there that this suspension of herd-books, which is the result of certain shortcomings in the breeding programme, will be lifted. With regard to breeding issues now, I hope that this will remain the preserve of experts and scientists. I don't know what to say here. There was a story earlier about Peipsi onion. I'm not a specialist to appreciate that. This must remain a matter for experts and scientists. I guess that's how it's gonna be, and I guess it's gonna be settled here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U424	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U425	Thank you, good manager. My question is for the Prime Minister. You put words in my mouth that I didn't say in answer to the previous question. I have not questioned the solidarity of the European Union or the defence capabilities of the Estonian state. My question was motivated by the agreement in the original ESM agreement that the Estonian state will make a contribution of 30 million euros each year, but now these contributions will be made in an accelerated fashion: 30 million + 30 million euros per year. Is that wise in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U426	Thank you. Yeah, it's smart in this situation. As you know, an accelerated payment has been agreed. As far as I know, the Riigikogu made its decision. Non-payment of contributions means that Estonia is essentially excluded from the stability mechanism. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U427	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U428	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. My question is also for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This concerns the government's plan to exempt land under public authorities from land tax, leading to a zero rate. I have heard that it is not intended to compensate local authorities for the loss of tax on the land under their own administration. I hope that what I have heard is not true and that the state is actually planning to compensate the local authorities for this amount. So, what's it really like? This bill comes under discussion and this can also be asked by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, but I will take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister: will the state in the future compensate local authorities for land tax under public authorities or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U429	Compensating. He also compensates those who lost the tax on their land before the law came into force. Administrative costs are also compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U430	Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic, I thank you for your answers. Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U431	Good fellows, good afternoon. We will begin the ninth working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U432	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The point is that the various pensions of police and border guards are currently calculated on the basis of several laws. As a result, most of them can be calculated and changed by indexation, but a small part of them is amended to take account of changes in the level of pay or in the level of remuneration. Our aim is to ensure equal treatment of all these persons. We want all these pensions to be calculated and amended in the future by indexing them. We hope that the procedure for the draft will be successful, meaningful and speedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U433	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U434	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hand over the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax. Here is the text of the decision itself and also the explanatory memorandum. A few words about it. The Committee on Monetary Affairs decided at its meeting on 19 November to initiate the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from gambling tax. 9 November s. a the Minister of Social Affairs proposed to the Committee on Finance that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Riho Rahuoja, be removed from the Council's membership of the Gambling Tax and that Chancellor Marelle Erlenheim be appointed as the new representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the composition of the Council. According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Council of the Riigikogu is formed from the Gambling Tax. This council includes 6 members of the Riigikogu and 1 representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, 1 representative of the Ministry of Culture and 1 representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. According to § 117 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board is discussed at a single reading. Paragraph 2 of the same section provides that if the draft has been submitted by a body whose right of proposal derives from the Constitution or Act of the Republic of Estonia, no amendments to the draft will be tabled. In other cases, the President of the Riigikogu sets a deadline for the submission of amendments in the course of the procedure. Amendments may be tabled only by political groups. The Committee on Finance decided to propose that the assembly set a deadline for the submission of amendments. a November 27, 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U435	Riigikogu speech chair Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U436	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Friends of hunters Helmen Kütt, Aivar Riisalu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Karel Rüütel and the speaker present a draft law amending the Hunting Act. As we see that there is a very constructive and thorough debate on the agenda in the Riigikogu, which will last for a very long time, we also know that the discussion on the agenda will be very long. One paragraph of the Hunting Act obliges the establishment of hunting areas by 1 March of the following year at the latest. We believe that this could be amended by a proposal to amend this law. This concerns the rental areas of the hunting grounds, the management plans for the hunting grounds and some other provisions relating to legal certainty. We hope that the members of the Riigikogu will actively join this bill and this law will be passed by the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U437	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved Kaja Kallas as Chairman of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu and Jaan Õunapuu as Vice-Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on the Denunciation of the Convention establishing the International Customs Tariffs, initiated on 19 November, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and of the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated on 19 November, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. I have a little detail on the agenda. In fact, at the debate on today's 19th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, Aivar Sõerd, Member of the Finance Commission, will present a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U438	Yesterday we were in the middle of a second-reading debate on the draft State Budget Act (2013) 278 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We will continue to examine the amendments. Yesterday we did not vote on Amendment 70. The Centre Party Group was able to take a ten-minute break before the vote, but the vote was not taken. We will therefore begin the preparation of the vote on Amendment 70. I shall put to the vote Amendment 70 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 17 members of the Riigikogu, 49 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 71 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U439	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 71st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu and 43 against. The proposal was not supported. We will move to Amendment 72, tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U440	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U441	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U442	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U443	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U444	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 72. I shall put to the vote the 72nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 73rd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U445	Thank you, Mr President. I ask you to vote on this proposal, and before that, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U446	Dear colleagues, we have reached Amendment 73. The break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 73rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and against 39. The proposal was not supported. We will move to the 74th proposal presented by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U447	Thank you! I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U448	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U449	Good fellows, hello again! The break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 74. I shall put to the vote the 74th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 75, tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U450	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal, and before that, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U451	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal, and before that, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U452	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U453	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 75th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please vote! Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 76th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U454	Thank you. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U455	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U456	I shall put to the vote the 76th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please vote! 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 77 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U457	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U458	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to vote on this proposal, and before that, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U459	I shall put to the vote the 77th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please vote! 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 78 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U460	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U461	I shall put to the vote Amendment 78 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted by 36 votes to 36 with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 79 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U462	Thank you very much. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U463	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U464	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on because it relates to the reduction of electricity excise duty. Before the vote, I wish a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U465	I shall put to the vote Amendment 79 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 80 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U466	I shall put to the vote Amendment 80 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 81 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U467	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U468	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U469	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U470	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U471	I shall put to the vote Amendment 81 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 82 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The proposal has been rejected. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U472	I shall put to the vote Amendment 82 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 83 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U473	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U474	Thank you! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U475	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U476	I shall put to the vote Amendment 83 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 84 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U477	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U478	Thank you! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U479	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U480	I shall put to the vote Amendment 84 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 85 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U481	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U482	Thank you. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U483	I shall put to the vote Amendment 85 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 8 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 37 votes against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 86 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U484	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U485	Thank you! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U486	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Central Party has ended. I shall put the 86th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We move to Amendment 87 tabled by Mr Herkel and Mr Lukas. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U487	Thank you, Mr President. We are certainly asking for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U488	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U489	Good Annely, are you sure you didn't want a word? Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U490	No, I didn't want a word. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U491	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U492	Andres Herkel, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U493	Yes, Mr President, I have a procedural question: how best to inform the Chamber that the proposers do not need a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U494	Thank you. That's what you did most appropriately. I'm declaring recess. We'll continue in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U495	Good fellows, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 87 tabled by Mr Herkel and Mr Lukas. Please take a stand and vote. There were 17 members of the Riigikogu, 33 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 88th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U496	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U497	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 88 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 members of the Riigikogu and 34 against. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 89, tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U498	Thank you! I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U499	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U500	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the 89th amendment. Please take a stand and vote. There were 11 members of the Riigikogu and 35 against. The proposal was not supported. We are going to the 90th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U501	Before we go to recess, I'll ask if there are any other suggestions. Got it. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U502	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U503	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 90 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We will go to the next amendment, this is the 91st proposal tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U504	Thank you! I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U505	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U506	Good fellows! We have reached Amendment 91. I shall put the 91st amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 7 members of the Riigikogu and 35 against. The amendment was not supported. We will move to amendment 92 tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U507	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U508	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U509	The break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 92nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu with 37 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 93 tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U510	Thank you. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U511	The break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 93. Dear colleagues, I will put the 93rd amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu, 33 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 94. This is proposed by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U512	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U513	Got it. Please bring this proposal here in writing too. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U514	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask for this motion to be voted on and, as always, before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U515	Thank you. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U516	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 94. I shall put the 94th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 34 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move to the 95th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U517	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U518	Dear colleagues, the thought period requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 95. I shall put the 95th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 17 members of the Riigikogu, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 96, tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U519	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U520	Mr President, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal, and I would like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U521	Dear colleagues, we have come to Amendment 96. I shall put the 96th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu, 39 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 97 tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U522	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing, as always. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U523	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on Amendment 97 and, before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U524	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U525	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 97. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. The following is Amendment 98. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U526	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the 98th amendment and, before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U527	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 98. Please take a stand and vote. There were 8 members of the Riigikogu, 35 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 99: Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U528	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U529	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on Amendment 99 and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U530	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 99. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 100. Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U531	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U532	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the 100th amendment, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U533	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 100. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 101 has been tabled by Mr Nestor. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this proposal into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U534	Pleasure. Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U535	Very nice! Please bring this proposal here in writing, as always! Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U536	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I would like to vote on Amendment 101 and, before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U537	Honourable Riigikogu, I will finish this ten-minute break. I believe that this process will once be of interest to historians and political scientists, but also to numerologists. I shall put the 101st amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the Riigikogu Board has received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft State Budget Act 278 of 2013. Now that we have examined all 101 amendments, I will put this proposal to the vote. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U538	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U539	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft State Budget Act 278 of 2013. Please take a stand and vote. The 24 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 51 were against, and no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2013 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 278 amendments on 28 November 2012 at 17:00. We have finished addressing today's first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U540	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U541	Our second item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the State's Final Report for the financial year 2011" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U542	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of Riigikogu decision '2011 at second reading. Approval of the consolidated annual report for the financial year 2006'. The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft. a on 13 November 2005. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Committee on Finance included a provision in the draft that the decision would enter into force when it was signed. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the second reading of the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 21 November 2012, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U543	Thank you very much. Unexpectedly, we have come to the questions. [[Laughter.]] Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U544	Thank you. You had a very meaningful speech. I want to be more specific. What else was discussed in more detail in the Commission? Were there any points of concern? Have any of them been memorized?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U545	Thank you, good questioner! There was no question in the Commission. I must admit, for some reason, the opposition did not take any interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U546	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U547	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, In one minute we can even explain why the opposition was not interested in this matter. Because it is the wrong mirror, it does not give a clear picture of what is happening in the country. There are many problems, there are many in local governments, there are ministries with public procurement, there are many in every area of life, in every sphere, though in education, in medicine, etc. However, when we read this recapitulative statement, we feel that we are living in an ideal country. Tell me, please, for whom such recapitulative statements are being made! It makes sense for a foreign country to advertise the country. Why fool yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U548	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that there were no questions in the Riigikogu at first reading of this draft. At first reading, the general principles of the draft decision were reviewed and provisions were discussed. For some reason, it seemed that you felt that everything had been done very correctly and properly. You did not put forward any amendments. There was no discussion in the committee, not to mention the hall of the Riigikogu. Why didn't you ask any questions at the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U549	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U550	Please tell me how you are essentially thinking about solving this problem. Madam President, why are you interrupting the question when I have ten more seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U551	Thank you. I'm sorry you're such a talker today that nothing explains. After all, the National Audit Office has criticised the results of last year. The issue of the long-term unemployed is specifically mentioned. The number of long-term unemployed has increased very significantly: 45% in 2010 and 57% in 2011. At the same time, the number of discouraged has increased a great deal. There were around 10,000 people who were discouraged last year, but the issue of young people who were discouraged last year was particularly worrying. The unemployed between the ages of 15 and 24 were...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U552	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U553	...three to four times more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U554	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U555	No, I'll tell you in advance that ten...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U556	Please, don't do this again!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U557	We're not talking right now. Question time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U558	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U559	Thank you, good questioner! I draw your attention to the very important paragraph of the annual summary report in the context of the National Audit Office. According to the National Audit Office, the 2011 annual accounts report of the state correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position in a significant part, in accordance with good accounting practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U560	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question also concerns the position or opinion of the National Audit Office on this summary report. You correctly read that the National Audit Office considers it broadly in accordance with good accounting practice, but has also made a number of comments. For example, the annual report on the implementation of the state budget and the state budget adopted by the Riigikogu is not comparable, since the principles for drawing up the report differ from those for drawing up the budget. According to the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance must organise the principles of budget preparation and the structure of the annual state budget law, or picture, supplement the technical solutions for monitoring the implementation of the budget and aim to present a consolidated budget implementation report. I consider this to be quite important what the National Audit Office has said. As Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, do you agree with the position of the National Audit Office and could it be done in the coming years as the National Audit Office has proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U561	Thank you. I will pass on here a small section of the report by the Minister for Finance: 'It has been said that the targets and targets for government bodies in 2011 were, however, largely met or were close to what was desired. ' It follows that today we certainly have to deal with the objectives being met.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U562	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U563	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You asked some questions here. I'm just reminding you that, unfortunately, we can't answer you right now because it's our turn to ask. But here's what I want to ask you. The National Audit Office considers that the municipalities are not currently able to fulfil all the public obligations imposed on them. Can you explain why they are not able to provide these public services?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U564	Thank you, good questioner! I will try today to give you a complete overview of everything that has been said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu on the basis of the amendments. Unfortunately, I have to say that no amendments have been received. The opposition has not worked hard to make any contribution to this particular draft. Unfortunately, I have nothing to say if I want to give you an overview of the amendments, precisely on the basis of the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U565	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo! One moment, please! Priit Toobal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U566	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind the President of the sitting that he should draw the attention of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to the fact that the second reading of the draft does not only discuss amendments. Paragraph 105 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states: 'The second reading of the bill is the subject of a discussion of the provisions of the bill. ' This is also the case with draft decisions. It is not only the amendments that are being discussed, as the chairman of the committee has now tried to argue. So if we ask specific questions about the draft provisions or ask for the opinion of the National Audit Office on this, then the representative of the Commission is obliged to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U567	Thank you. The chairman of the committee will certainly comply with the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U568	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The National Audit Office has carried out its review of last year's report. The National Audit Office's assessment of 'The accuracy of the summary report of the State for the financial year 2011 and the legality of transactions' states that the organisation of the accounts of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Agriculture has deteriorated. It is added that the National Audit Office sees as a reason not to correct previous deficiencies. Was this the subject of the Commission's attention? This is quite a warning remark that old shortcomings will not be remedied and the situation will continue to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U569	Thank you. That's a really good question. Since you asked if attention was paid, I must confess to you that no attention was paid. No member of the opposition asked any questions. Unfortunately, I have to admit, I didn't pay attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U570	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U571	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I've always been thrilled by your thorough and funny answers. This time, too, cannot fail to ask a question, even if it is because you would not say that even at second reading, nothing was asked. Unfortunately, I am concerned that Estonia is increasingly becoming a facade republic. Both the press and the National Audit Office have drawn attention to this. The Government of the Republic of Estonia has drawn up over a hundred development strategies, the aim of which has probably not been to provide social jobs to their makers. Working hours and spiritual abilities are spent enormously on them, not only on these development plans. That's what the National Audit Office says. As it became clear from a deeper examination, they are sometimes needed to complete the plan, because the plan needs to be drawn up, and sometimes to ask for euro money. I was worried about who the government was cheating on, whether it was itself, the taxpayers, our good colleagues from the European Union or the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U572	Thank you, my good colleague. I'm actually enjoying your questions. I'm saying this without a joke, sincerely. There's a way to use one minute so properly. But I'll try to be brief. True, we did not have a debate in the Commission this time about who the government could deceive, either the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs or Parliament. We really weren't discussing it, but we can definitely turn to the government to find out if he's cheated on anyone, and if he is, who.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U573	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U574	Thank you, Madam President. It gives the impression that it is an ideal activity, an ideal report and its ideal protector. In this sense, this performance is really very good. But I have a question. If you looked critically at this document and discussed it critically, then perhaps you also found places that would need to be better done and formalised. Perhaps you also have proposals for the future. Was that a position at all or did you not share such a position in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently noticed (and I am not only talking about the last days, but about the last half of the year) that the opposition does not want to ask for any reason. He is not interested in how the Estonian state is doing. I don't know what this is about. I have noticed this when there have been ministers who have spoken next year, and I have also noticed this in the case of this particular draft. What's the matter? Why isn't the opposition interested? I don't know what to say. Since I'm not the one asking the question right now, the question remains. Once again, there was no mention of this in the Commission. And I'm sorry I wasn't. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U576	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U577	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Within one minute, I will explain to everyone why we are not asking questions in the Commission. A little over a year ago, in the spring of last year, I proposed that the Commission meeting be recorded, as is the case in another committee, and that everything we are talking about be verbatimised. Ideal, of course, would also be live online, etc. You refused it strictly. Often you see TV productions involving five or six members of the Commission together with the Minister. But in reality, there is no point in delaying the meetings of the Commission, because there will be nothing left to discuss there anyway. Now the question. In his presentation, the Auditor General said that no talk is made about the achievement or failure to achieve objectives when distributing money. How, though, does it happen that the recapitulative report suddenly contains many of these goals? They won't be put in place, but the achievements will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U578	Thank you. I kept thinking about what you said before. I'm trying to make it faster, but I still have the will to answer you. It should be noted that, if important issues have been discussed, the discussion has also taken place. But basically, this discussion has been maintained by the members of the coalition, which must be acknowledged. We have also had five or six hours of committee meetings, but it has still been more or less on the shoulders of the coalition. But I'll come back to a specific report. Especially in the context of 2011, it must be noted that the observations made by the National Audit Office on this report are relevant and must certainly be taken into account. However, it is very important that these observations are not so important that you prohibit us from approving this control report today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Audit Office has said that this specific report is well in line with accounting rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U579	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U580	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I hope that you will continue to maintain this line, as we may have seen in the debate on the previous item, when you gave very substantive and analytical answers. This is, in my opinion, very necessary for the discussion to take place. I now come to today's second item, which is the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2011' presented by the Government of the Republic. The National Audit Office drew attention to the fact that the state reserves are decreasing for the third consecutive year. More specifically, in 2011, the total value of reserves decreased by EUR 219 million compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U581	Please ask a question, my good colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U582	How sustainable do you think the fiscal policy that reduces the state's reserves is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U583	Thank you. Let me put it this way: as long as this government coalition has the opportunity to manage, I hope that this time will be at least until 2015, every effort will be made to ensure that national reserves grow. To this end, the 2013 state budget will be adopted, I hope, at the right time and in the right format. I promise you that if there is a surplus, I will do everything in my power, and I understand that the government coalition will do everything in its power to ensure that it is transferred to reserves, not like a few weeks ago in Tallinn, where the surplus was simply spent with a new additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U584	Ladies and gentlemen. I have no desire to interfere with the questioning process. Therefore, I would very much like you to be able to ask a question for at least 10 seconds after your extended speech, which you will give for 50 seconds. The question should fit in one minute according to the rules. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U585	Thank you for your right to ask a second question. In my opinion, the Rules of Procedure Act has not formulated what is a question and how to put it. But I want to congratulate Mr. Sester too. He always talks about difficult things with such interesting and easy humor that it feels good to hear right now. I would also like to call on you, as the previous questioners said, that we are still going to talk interestingly about the content of the matter. I have a pretty serious and substantive question. If you read the report of the National Audit Office, there is a chapter entitled 'Notifications on the report on the implementation of the state budget and the legality of transactions', Mr Sester, said that (this requires a long answer from you): 'The principles of drawing up the state budget and reporting on the implementation of the budget continue to need to be adjusted. ' What does it mean when the Auditor General says that you need to work more thoroughly and properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U586	Thank you. First of all, the first part of the question. When the opposition starts praising, you have to look to the left or to the right, because there is a very likely error somewhere. I'll look to the left and then to the right. Now, your question. All important issues raised by the National Audit Office must be dealt with. There's no other way. It is necessary to monitor what they have said in the form of observations and then take decisions. Today we have the papers and all the comments are written down. I understand that these comments have been taken into account by the executive authority. If they have taken nothing into account, they must be asked why they have not done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U587	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U588	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. These comments have been made every year. In fact, the errors highlighted by Oviir are repeated and have not been corrected. The report states that the annual report on the implementation of the state budget and state budget adopted by the Riigikogu is not comparable, as the principles of preparation are amended every year. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance has to organise the principles of budgeting so that these figures are comparable. I think it's been repeated all these years, but nothing gets better, everything gets harder to understand, less comparable. What do you say to that? Are you really going to do something about it this time? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U589	Thank you. That's a good question. I'd like to ask you back, but I can't ask you. I'd like to ask where you were on 7 November. 7 November was precisely the date when the Minister of Finance spoke exactly the same things at first reading. I quote to you the words of the Minister for Finance that next time you should not ask what has already been said in this Chamber: 'The reform will be accompanied by a number of changes in budgeting and accounting, some of which will be implemented as early as 2013. We also presented the 2013 State Budget Act in a new form so that the budgets for the various years can be better compared and compared with the budget implementation report. ' Here comes the answer. Of course you have to change. In view of the standards and the acts, we have already started with these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U590	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U591	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! This is not the first time I am surprised when someone in the Riigikogu board talks about local government and its decisions. What does Tallinn have to do with this bill? How Tallinn organises its budget should not be a matter for a member of the Riigikogu. If you wish to organise the life of Tallinn, you must be selected as a member of the City Council of Tallinn. I hope that this intervention by the Riigikogu in the activities of the local government will end. The question, however, is as follows. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be referred to second reading. On 21 November 2008, the second reading of the draft was closed and the draft was put to the final vote. It would be interesting to know how many Members were present in the Commission, how those Members voted and how this vote ended, whether it was a consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U592	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance. The Riigikogu's Finance Committee has 11 members of the Riigikogu, 6 of which belong to the coalition and 5 to the opposition. All decisions on this draft were taken by consensus. There was no difference between opposition and coalition opinions. Everyone felt that this bill was good and mature for adoption.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U593	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U594	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. From the answers of a good waitress, I have realised that if the opposition does not ask the Commission, the drafts will not be discussed at all. I at least want to hope that the chairman of the committee has read the National Audit Office's report on the implementation of the budget for the previous year carefully and that he has a position on it. Here is also the paragraph: 'The rules of procedure laid down in the Public Procurement Act were violated and the public procurement process was not documented in accordance with the requirements. ' It was performed by the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Finance, and again by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The previous violation was also in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, now that too. In the opinion of the chairman of the committee, is there any way to call the Ministry of Economic Affairs to order? It seems that all the rules, both accounting and public procurement rules, are being violated there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U595	Thank you. Good colleague! I'm starting from a distance because you threw some fish out here. Many things are discussed in the Commission in substance. Unfortunately, it has been seen recently, especially when the ministers of the field have been in the Commission, that most of the questions come from the members of the coalition. It's made me wonder, to be honest. It was a reference to the substance of your question. Now for the question of yourself. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, will hold this in very clear view in the hands of the Ministry. I think that, to some extent, part of the economic growth that Estonia can now enjoy can be attributed to it. He has been a member of the government who has taken the right decisions, which is why we now have the kind of growth and prosperity that gives us the opportunity to channel extra money into, for example, pensions, wages and social benefits. I think that all the mistakes we find both in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and in other ministries must certainly be noted, recorded and corrected. I think the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not, for any reason, stand out from other ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U596	Thank you very much. Please, Aadu Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U597	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The water drop was to reflect the ocean, just as the 2011 budget reflects not only the present but also the opportunities for future developments. The expenditure of the Estonian state in many areas, including education and research, as well as innovation, depends mostly not on the local resources of Estonia, but on the so-called euro money. The extent to which we love education and develop research-intensive production, or, on the contrary, material-intensive production, is already more in the hands of the decision-makers in Brussels, whom we, of course, infinitely trust. I apologise if I demand too much philosophical generalisation, but doesn't that suddenly mean that we are making good progress towards the European Confederation, where it is up to us to decide on municipal policy issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U598	Good Aadu! Your questions are always a pleasure to listen to, a true story. I'm still saying no, we're not going that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U599	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U600	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am taking advantage of the opportunity to ask you, if I may, I am not specifically a member of your committee. This fall's pretty warm, there's no problem with the heat supply. Life experience shows that the state has not prioritised district heating over the years. It has, by the way, been written in successive reports from the National Audit Office in recent years. Was anything said in the Commission in this area, or is the big problem that the country should be dealing with postponed from year to year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U601	Thank you, good Valeri! Where do you read all this? Your eyes were pointed down and you read it somewhere. But it doesn't matter. You read where you read, as long as the question came out. I'm telling you, I wasn't discussing it. I even wonder why there was no discussion and why they didn't want to ask. I don't know why they don't want to ask questions like that, then there would be discussion and debate. It wasn't a discussion. Since you asked if there was a discussion, I would say that it was not under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U602	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U603	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I regret that if the members of the opposition immediately ask a number of questions, it does not mean that we are against this draft decision. We just want to discuss the debate and the matter. This should be normal in every parliamentary state and also in the Estonian parliament. I also agree with my colleague who said (I think it was Marika Tuus-Laul) that the National Audit Office has made relatively similar proposals and comments every year. I have a report for the past year, and I have a report for the past year. When I read them and compare them, I can see that the proposals are actually quite the same and that they have not been learned. But I'm asking you about centralizing the accounts of the ministries. The National Audit Office says that centralisation has gone barely, however, and makes four proposals. Was this subject discussed in the Commission? What do you, as committee chairman, think you should do to ensure that this process does not go so hard?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U604	Thank you. As usual: the introduction long, but the question short. I will try to raise a counter-question about the introduction, which, of course, you will not be able to answer here. Find out about the verbatim report, which was the last two words of the Minister of Finance on November 7, before he left the remote. Those words were, "What about the debate? ' What am I saying, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, I want a good debate too. During the 2013 state budget procedure, I believe that you have to admit that I have enjoyed the debate very much. There were questions of substance, and you may have felt that you were interested. Right now, I don't feel that way. Why do I think that? I'm about to get to your question. After that, I'm gonna start answering again. I looked at the interest in previous years, and you also mentioned 2011 and 2010. I looked at the debates previously held in the Riigikogu, such as the approval of the 2009 or 2008 summary report. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no question then. I figured you could start showing me various papers. As a result, I can say that I feel that what is happening here is not sincere. But it's just my interpretation, and I'm definitely not pushing it on anyone. The assurance also adds to me when I saw that several people started reading the National Audit Office's report here at some point today, which made it clear that Ahah is being read. There is no difference in what are the reasons for reading the report of the National Audit Office. The important thing is that every member of the Riigikogu reads these matters. I think that in the search for reasons we have achieved at least the objective of people reading reports. In coming to your question, I say that the proposals made by the National Audit Office must be taken into account; they must certainly be taken into account. The Minister of Finance gave his answer here, which he has taken into account and which he has not taken into account and, if he has not taken into account, why he has not taken into account. Be sure to look at it! In the Commission, I must admit, no members of the opposition asked any questions for any reason. Why they didn't do it, I'm afraid I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U605	Thank you very much. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U606	Madam President! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Do not be offended that the opposition has never asked about this point before. The opposition is also studying. As you can see, there's a lot of interest today. Besides, I really like your current response style. You were in a bit of a hurry before, and I didn't get an answer to my question. But it's okay, I'll ask you again. The National Audit Office points out that not all municipalities and cities are able to offer all public services. I asked you why it's like that. What are the requirements for them, and how are they presented? Has this been mentioned in the Commission? Since I really haven't been there, please tell us about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U607	Thank you, good Esther! This was not mentioned in the Commission. Since you ask whether this was mentioned in the Commission and you asked me to talk about it, I say that unfortunately there was no mention of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U608	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U609	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I want to congratulate you on two things. First of all, for answering the previous question, that you will do everything in your power to ensure that the surplus will be transferred to national reserves in the future. It's worth recognition. Secondly, for standing there in a very firm and brave state. This also gives us courage on the opposition side here. Thank you. However, if we come to the summary report now, it has been pointed out that there was rapid and broad-based growth in 2011. According to Statistics Estonia, GDP growth, as revised, was 8.3%, but in reality economic growth slowed down in the fourth quarter of last year. This year's growth is already projected to be twice as low. I wonder what concrete measures have been discussed in the Commission under your leadership to ensure Estonia's economic growth in 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U610	Thank you. I want to tell you one very important thing. On 6 April 2011, the Government of the Republic, which took office after the regular elections, prioritised the increase in government surplus, positive growth in productivity and employment, the reduction of the share of young people not in education, the increase in healthy life years and the maintenance of greenhouse gas emission levels. We are now dealing with this at both government and parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U611	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U612	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I'll start with an apology. I did not hear all your answers because I needed to give an interview for the Tallinn Television news show. I know that the Tallinn Television had also agreed with you and waited for you to go live, but now this show is over. Don't rush any more. Now you can answer basically. The show has gone missing for you, which I'm sure everyone will be very sorry about. Maybe you've already answered that question, maybe not. I came to the Chamber when you said that there was only one amendment to the draft. I see that this amendment says that this Decision will enter into force when it is signed. If this amendment were not included, if it were not specified when the decision would enter into force, when would the original wording of the decision have entered into force? Is such clarification necessary at all, or are the decisions taken by the Riigikogu automatically valid after signing anyway? Why was such clarification necessary, and why was it not there at first?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U613	Thank you. According to different lawn areas, there is a situation that, if not specified, the decision or law may enter into force, for example, after the publication in the State's Official Journal and there may be some other nuances. The position taken on this draft is very clear as to when it should enter into force. This should enter into force upon signature. Since such a decision had not previously been recorded in the minutes and had not been included in the draft that came from the Government of the Republic, we added it ourselves in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U614	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U615	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! A little while ago, we found out who really is the pledge of Estonian economic success. Turns out it's Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I was starting to wonder how these things worked out. The Estonian budget is in deficit, loans are growing, reserves are decreasing, there has been problems with money in the Port of Tallinn, there are major problems with Estonian Air, the National Audit Office has made a rigorous assessment of the investments made by Eesti Energia. How do these things work out? Can You Briefly Explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U616	Thank you, my good colleague. In the context of 2011, nothing has been said about Estonian Air. I do not want to go down this road to start talking to you about, for example, the financial perspective for the years 2014 to 2020 in Europe. This is certainly not the context of this draft. We try to stay in this context. If you want to talk about 2011, I will tell you, good colleague, see what has happened. The general government is in surplus, 1.6% minus was planned, but 1% surplus came. Growth at 8.3% was the fastest in Europe. The debt burden remains low at 6.1% of GDP, the lowest in Europe. At that time, the debt burden in Europe was close to 80%. Ladies and gentlemen, these are thought-provoking numbers. I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U617	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U618	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! The National Audit Office has expressed the view that it does not consider it appropriate to rush the institutions' accounts into a single centre. The National Audit Office also pointed out that the feasibility of setting up a support services centre and concentrating officials in one location should be considered separately when solutions to the substantive details of the centralisation of accounts have been found. Currently, these issues are partly still unresolved, writes the National Audit Office. Colleagues, tell me, please, when will these issues be resolved? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U619	Thank you. Such issues will be resolved on an ongoing basis. It's not like we're gonna settle these in one day. Several things require constant monitoring. I'll tell you one more thing. However, centralisation seems to be correct, I think. What do you think? If we think about the current state of affairs, starting with Riigi Kinnisvara AS and ending with different IT solutions, including centralization of accounts, then, I think, it is clear that it will significantly save the state's costs. I think that the direction towards joint procurement, joint action is the right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U620	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U621	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. When Jürgen Ligi presented this draft decision here, according to my memory, it took place on 7 November, he also said that according to the Ministry of Finance, the accounts are well-off in the country and, in particular, it has certainly improved compared to the previous ones. He said that this is confirmed by the National Audit Office, who has said that the accounts report is correct and important economic transactions comply with the State Budget Act. I didn't want to ask him that on November 7, because his life is hard enough. But you have a life like a flower, maybe you'll answer. Does this mean, then, that in some of the previous years the consolidated accounts have been approved even if the accounts have been reported as not complying with the State Budget Act? Nearly said the situation is much better now. Is it even possible that this recapitulative statement has been confirmed by such a remark in any of the previous years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U622	Thank you. That's a good question. I'm certainly asking for the opportunity to respond a little longer, if that's all right with you. I also have this speech from the Minister of Finance printed out. I really see that he has said very clearly that accounting has certainly improved well and certainly improved compared to the previous one. I want to give you an example. This year's state budget was processed in 2011. The budget that we dealt with a year ago and which we live by now is a very good state budget. During the second reading of this budget, we spent time in debate and answered questions for a total of four hours. This year we have spent 24 hours, perhaps 28 hours, processing the 2013 state budget. However, compared to the previous state budget, which we dealt with last year, this time much more money has been allocated to grants, salaries and higher pensions, and a number of other investments have been made. From this, I have a question: can I say that last year's state budget was bad? No, it wasn't. It was a good budget. It's just that this year there's an even better budget. The same is true of the National Audit Office's report: in 2011 there was a good report, in 2010 there was also a good report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U623	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U624	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I read the National Audit Office's report for 2011 very carefully. I was particularly interested in the chapter on supporting culture and sport. One such sentence was memorized: 'The role of the state in supporting culture and sport awaits reflection. ' The National Audit Office considers that there is a lack of clear objectives in both sports and culture that need to be supported. How do you assess how you can achieve your goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U625	Thank you. Good question. I think that we can only achieve the objectives through a debate, only by asking ourselves and others questions, by seeking answers to them and by discussing them with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U626	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U627	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have mentioned that opposition politicians have done little work on this draft decision of the Riigikogu and that few amendments have been tabled. In fact, it is that the decision of the Riigikogu can be written on paper in a few words, and the whole decision is reflected in the words of 8 to 10, so it is very difficult to propose amendments. Of course, such choices could be made in order, for example, not to approve the summary report of the 2011 financial year of the State submitted by the Government of the Republic, or to approve a good consolidated report of the financial year or to approve a very good consolidated report of the financial year. In fact, everything on hundreds of pages is an annex to this decision. Don't you blame opposition politicians for not proposing amendments for no reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U628	Thank you, good Inara! I won't. I'm supposed to put a stop to this place, but I can't do that. You've created such a pleasant environment where we begin to debate. I'll be honest with you why I'm not complaining for no reason. A good colleague on my left, whose name I am not going to mention, has said that members of the Riigikogu can make any amendments. The question is whether they are legal and whether they can be voted on. But any amendments can be made, it is a matter of your own conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U629	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U630	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In the case of a consolidated report, the national reserves shall also be reviewed. Is it true that reserves have declined steadily over the last five years? If that is the case, have calculations been made, when will they end at all, and what will happen then? Is there a plan B? Will they be replaced and will they be replaced by loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U631	Thank you, my good colleague. This is a very substantive question. The truth is that in recent years, national reserves have decreased. Especially when the crisis came. There is a very clear reason for this. Crocodiles with their Commission took up cuts, but the crisis also did its job and reserves decreased. Now the government coalition has taken a clear view that the budget must be conservative, balanced, forward-looking and understandable. What do I mean by that? We must not go along with temptations, take large loans, exponentially increase debt and deficit, make short-term decisions that will affect our children later. The government is working to make sure the budget is not in deficit. Moreover, in 2013, the budget is already in structural surplus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U632	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U633	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I have to admit, the last time you were here, your performance was actually enjoyable at times. But I don't know what's happened to you today, that in this back row, you talk like you don't, and it's hard to understand dictation sometimes. Where are you going in such a hurry? I hope you're not forced to. But here's the question. The National Audit Office emphasises in its report that the state and municipalities have different views on the allocation and financing of tasks. The Association of Municipalities proposed to proceed with the execution of the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, but the Government Committee had a different opinion and said that the tasks arising from the Supreme Court's decision have already been fulfilled. So how do we finally assess it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U634	You have to judge it as it says.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U635	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U636	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I will continue on the cultural topics analysed by the National Audit Office in my comprehensive report. He pointed out that the cultural financing system was very complex. The situation has developed where the Ministry of Culture, the Gambling Tax Council, the Cultural Endowment of Estonia and the Estonian Olympic Committee support the same target groups and activities. The Auditor General points out that it is neither practical nor sustainable to distribute grants in this form, as this leads to additional costs. How do you think this situation could be resolved? Not with the debate, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U637	Thank you. As regards all the assessments relating to my person, I think there is a chance that I will come here as a representative of the group. I'm not sure about that, but it's possible. In that case, I will also make my own personal assessments. At second reading, however, more attention will be paid to the debate in the Commission, which was discussed there, which amendments were tabled, which was given more attention and whether there were different opinions. No one investigated my personal assessments in the committee. I'm not sure if I should say them to you here, too, but I'm not gonna rule out coming back here and telling you everything I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U638	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U639	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You have now given us the hope that the national reserves, which may slightly shrink, will regenerate, just as all processes in nature are moving along the sinusoid: before they go down, in order to move up again. What happens after they move down again, we don't know that. But what the hell are the reserves of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund doing in the state budget? We're allowed to take them over, but they're not used for anything, they're kept nicely and neatly. So are these some sort of balancing mechanism? Well, there is or there isn't, but if the reserve status improves, will the sickness fund and the unemployment fund's reserves be returned to their 'legal owner' and holder'?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U640	Thank you. I'm gonna start at the back and move forward this time. Will they give it back? You could say they haven't been taken. What hasn't been taken, it can't be returned. Surely the legal user of reserves, when he needs financial resources, will always have the opportunity to do so. Now I come to the beginning. Your question and introduction are very well aligned with your question of Peeter Võsa. What do I mean by that? Peter Võsa was interested in the fact that if there are several sources of finance from which money is given to culture or sport, there will be no duplication. That goes well with your question. The situation was similar when the unemployment fund, the sickness fund and the Treasury were placed in reserves. This was certainly one of the reasons why they were consolidated: that there should not be a situation where different fund managers invest the same reserves in the same positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U641	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U642	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U643	Peter Võsa, do you have a procedural question? Please hand over the microphone to Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U644	Since my name was mentioned here in connection with the subject matter, I have to say in response that it was random.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U645	Thank you. Deniss Borodich will start asking his question again from scratch.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U646	Yeah, I'll start from scratch. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good chairman of the committee! I have a purely practical question. The draft decision of the Riigikogu is currently pending. The Riigikogu votes either for it or against it. In essence, this document, which is annexed to the draft, cannot be amended by amending the consolidated annual report; only this decisive resolution can be amended. Basically, the only choice is whether to vote in favour or against. If the hall decides to vote against, what are its legal and practical consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U647	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. I'll give you two more options that you can do. But let's just keep it between us. You can be impartial or not vote; you still have opportunities like this. So you don't just have to be for it or against it. But to come to your substantive question, I say that if we do not endorse this report today, it will be the same as always. It is necessary to review why the report was not validated and what were the problems. It may be assumed that there is a need to talk to the National Audit Office, to review whether the reasons for non-approval have been political, substantive or something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U648	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U649	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Something to add here is very, very difficult. In this sense, I agree with my colleague, Inara Luis. But when it comes to debate, I do not agree with you because we are still asking quite a few questions about today's policy and situation, including the future. But I have another question. The Auditor General made a rather critical assessment and pointed out many and many problematic areas and issues. How do you assess whether this position could be involved, or is it something like that, as some say it is and what about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U650	Thank you, my good colleague. I didn't quite understand your question. I have to apologize! But I was very close to following the position of your question. In order to ensure that there is no wrong understanding among the observers of our debate today, either here in the Riigikogu or on the Internet, I can say the following. According to the National Audit Office, the state's most important economic transactions have been carried out in accordance with the basic law of the state budget and the 2011 State Budget Act and the Amending Act. This is the very clear position of the National Audit Office. He's gonna say it in black. The report has been drawn up correctly and fairly in an important part, in accordance with all laws. The criticisms that have been put forward must certainly be discussed, but this criticism is not the kind of criticism that would prevent us from approving this summary report today or would say that this report does not comply with the law. No, on the contrary, it is very clear that the report complies with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U651	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U652	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good Commission waitress, good Sven! You started your answers, let's say, at machine gun speed, and now you're starting to answer us like single shots. I thank you that you still allow us sometimes to get a little out of the question and not just talk about what happened in the Commission. I may not ask so much about what happened in the Commission. But in answer to my previous question, you said you'd agree that some areas should be centralized, and you're in favour of being centralized. Does this mean that you are also in favour of those European processes that lead to centralisation? I mean, here's the idea of the Federation. It's a little philosophical, but maybe you'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U653	Thank you, good Vladimir! Of course, the debate is always good. I agree that if there are good questions, why not, because the debate is true. There's time, there's no hurry, as you know. As far as your question of centralisation is concerned, my good colleague, this issue is actually much more philosophical. Certainly the current context and the possibilities for the actual processing of this draft here in the Riigikogu do not provide an opportunity to give such a real vision of how and where we should move. Well, I guess people definitely have a lot of ideas. In the near future, we will have a debate on the topicalisation of quite a number of fundamental European principles, the raising of the agenda. I think that you must, and I must, shape views on when we are too centralised and when perhaps too little.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U654	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U655	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The National Audit Office has written in the 2010 audit report on the annual accounts of the state that the accounting principles of the state forest have been changed, the methodology used is in line with international practice and arithmetically the calculation is correct. However, the National Audit Office has no assurance that the prerequisites for implementing these accounting principles have been met. Last year's recommendation of the National Audit Office to review the accounting principle was not complied with by the Minister of the Environment. The National Audit Office therefore repeats its earlier observation and proposal. What conclusion did the Commission reach? Should any sanctions be imposed if the Minister of the Environment does nothing this time and ignores the recommendation of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U656	Thank you, good questioner! The Commission did not formulate a position on this issue. I do not rule out that the Commission can ever shape this position, but this time this position was not shaped.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U657	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U658	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! When we look at the National Audit Office's report, one of the topics that is highlighted there is information technology development. If we look back, there have been unexpected failures in several new IT solutions, especially in recent years. These failures have been such that society has been quite grumpy. There have been problems with the receipt of certain grants, including in the case of digital prescriptions. Therefore, the proposal of the National Audit Office to significantly improve these developments is justified. How do you assess these new solutions? Have they been tested enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U659	Thank you. I think the observation made by the National Audit Office that additional attention should be paid to developments in information technology is very legitimate and correct. I think we're gonna have to do this for sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U660	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U661	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, the chairman of the committee! You don't like it when we read the questions. So I ask you not to read: how much state-owned and used real estate did we lose last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U662	Thank you. What we read to lose is always subjective. If we read to lose that property was wiped off the face of the earth, I'm not sure we've lost much. I don't know that very big hurricanes and other naturalist styles would have lost something of our real estate on this earth. If we are talking about, for example, the value changes of state-owned immovable property on an on-balance sheet basis, based on the fact that property prices fell or increased, I am aware that no such monthly or annual changes will be made. The state-owned value is in book value; no conversions are made here, which are carried out by a large number of private companies. I believe the loss as it may not have been. The insurance is definitely in place and, in the case of styles, the insurance compensates for the losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U663	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U664	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! There's been some talk about reserves here today. It seems that there is not much urge to ask further questions at the moment. Maybe that's an anchor question. My question fits perfectly well. There have been different scandals. For example, at present, even in the Scandinavian countries, there is a question of where the money of future pensioners has been placed. In Sweden, there has been a great deal of debate during the crisis about this money being put into stocks, stocks falling and people losing their money. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you have certainly repeatedly analysed our reserves and the situation of the money placed. How risk-free are the reserves placed, in what situation are they and how much have they lost their value during the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U665	Thank you. Yes, of course. The Committee on Monetary Affairs will receive continuous monitoring of our collateral positions. At this point, I can assure you that the state will keep its money. Pension funds, as you know, are private structures. You can choose which pension fund you are investing in, what risks you are willing to take, how sudden this fund is. The state's investment policy is much more conservative. In general, it is based on the fact that it still invests in debt securities with a very high degree of stability, state bonds or banks bonds, but in this case the bank's rating must be at AAA level. On the one hand, it pulls down annual profitability, but on the other hand it adds confidence that there will be no loss of money, as has indeed happened with several pension funds in recent times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U666	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U667	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission, what do you think it is necessary to add to this draft to the members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U668	Thank you, good Eiki! What can I tell you before the vote? As we are not looking at the 2013 state budget this time, not at the 2012 state budget, but at the 2011 state budget, ladies and gentlemen, once again I will tell you to look at what happened last year in 2011. An increase of 3.6% was expected, in fact 7.6% was expected. The general government surplus was 1% of GDP. The central government was in balance, the social security funds were in surplus at 0.9%. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good report. I hope that we will find a common language and confirm it by consensus here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U669	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U670	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing on the point of the previous speaker, one could also say that if the municipalities had been stripped and taken down half a percent of them, the result would have been even better for the summary report. But that's it. Now, from Bill 265. I'll start with praise. The consolidated annual report for the financial year 2011 is a work of art. It's beautiful, it's even extremely beautiful. Just like a 75-year-old woman who's been under a plastic surgeon a couple of times. You look from a distance or with poor eyesight, you just don't have glasses, and everything looks okay. From lips to ass, everything is perfect, though mostly artificial. But is it that important? The government is preparing the recapitulative statement, the government will confirm it. If two grown-ups love each other, even if they're 100 years old, it's nobody's business how they realize their love in the bedroom. The annual financial report for 2011 is a beautiful label on the facade. When I looked at it, I kept reminding one of my favorite writers Nikolai Gogol and his play Revident. At the beginning there is a place where the mayor, thinking that an important official has arrived in the city, will give instructions to the subordinates: 'Run now, take the baths, and let every man take... [----] Let every man take one street, see, evil spirit, not street! ♪ create still, and wipe out the entire street that goes to the inn, and be clean. ' Here are some of the thoughts of the Auditor General's summary: 'The division of roles between the state and local government needs to be reviewed. Not all municipalities and cities are able to provide all public services. A particular problem is the shortage of professionals providing the service. ' But how does it fit together a beautiful picture and the reality of local governments? Another quote from Gogol: 'And quickly beat this plank to the splinters that remain with the shoemaker, and put one of the strawbones up as a sign to make it look like a plan. Because the more they dismantle, the more it shows the city governor's actions. " Does it not ring a bell, all the processes that began in 2011 in the education system, the rescuers, etc.? Again, I quote Gogol: 'And if this foreign official asks about the service, 'Are you satisfied? '''Then you will say, 'All pleased, Your Honor. ' And whoever is unhappy with it, I will do after such unrest that... " It's like talking about the relationship between local governments and the state. But if life doesn't know or get acquainted with it through the recapitulative statement, it's like it's okay. Also about how the government usually solves the problems of the common man, Gogol has said something through the mayor's mouth in his play: 'And when asked why there is a church of unbuilt welfare institutions, for which his five years ago the funds were meant to be, you will not forget to say that it was built, but burned down. I even submitted a report on that. Otherwise, someone forgets, says stupidly that they haven't even built. ' Colleagues, we are living at a time when making the right advertising for goods is more important than improving the quality of the goods themselves. The 2011 financial year summary report is a work of art, a beautiful label on the facade, behind which there are a million and a little more people with huge numbers of problems. But if you don't praise yourself, then who will? So let's just wave our hand to that beautiful-cut old lady and let her go in God's peace. The Estonian Centre Party leaves the vote free on this issue, so everyone decides for themselves. I'll add a few more words to that. Today there was an argument that there was no debate on this in the Commission. I repeat why there was no debate. I have a very good example of how this is happening. It wasn't long ago when the Minister of Finance came to the Commission. First, he was late, and secondly, when the chairman of the committee offered him the floor, he asked: "What draft are we discussing? " He was told the bill number, but he asked what it was specifically. He was told what the title of the bill was. He started, said a few sentences, and then he said, "Oh, I don't bother! " There were officials sitting by the wall, and he said to one of them, " Well, tell them! ' That's what I'm saying! Even the minister doesn't bother! What is the difference between the debates that take place in the Commission, specifically in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and in this Chamber? You may leave this room, you may not listen, but everything they say will be recorded. It's all left for history. We write down our opinions, our priorities, our principles, they remain. In this sense, the hall is like a river, a living water that flows, and in which it is sometimes pleasant to swim. But the Committee on Monetary Affairs is a swamp because there is nothing left of it. Look at these protocols. There is nothing to understand, because there are only figures on how the vote was taken, but there are no positions. Now explain it to me. If the minister comes to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and says that he does not want to talk in the Commission, what is the point of the opposition wasting its strength there if there is no verbatim if there is no broadcast on the Internet? I, once again, proposed last spring that it all be. In our view, the debate is welcome and it must take place in a Chamber where, however, there is a small chance that people will know what we are talking about and how we will argue our views. The debate in the Commission does not make any sense in the current situation, because even in the worst case scenario for the coalition, the vote will end at 6: 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U671	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. One amendment to the draft law tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs is a proposal that has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. My colleague, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U672	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I think that this amendment needs to be voted on, but I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U673	Is it to think? Excellent! I totally agree with you. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U674	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. We have examined the amendment and we can go to the final vote. My colleague, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U675	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Before the final vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U676	I'd love to. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U677	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2011 265. Please vote! 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U678	The next item is the statement by 63 members of the Riigikogu on 'Estonian agriculture and reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy', Bill 306. Ladies and gentlemen, I will show you how this draft statement is being processed. First of all, there is a presentation by a representative of the drafters, which lasts up to 20 minutes. A presentation by the representative of the commission will follow, which will also last for up to 20 minutes. The following questions for the waitresses. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Only the representatives of the political groups take part in the negotiations. The amendments will then be examined if there are amendments. This will be followed by a final vote. Let's start the first reading. Aivar Koka, Member of the Riigikogu, please waitress! Please, Peep Aru, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U679	Dear Chairman, In this plan, how are we discussing this point, is there no place to take breaks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U680	There is always this opportunity before the vote. Please, let's begin! Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U681	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu has prepared the Riigikogu statement on the reform of Estonian agriculture and the common agricultural policy of the European Union. When adopting the application, the Riigikogu continues to confirm its support for Estonian agriculture and stresses the importance of rural life in this regard, in particular with regard to food supply, regional development and economic and security policy aspects. Given the geographical location and long-term traditions of our land resources, Estonian agriculture has great potential. As the representative of the drafters of the application, I would like to highlight the following. The Treaty on European Union states that the Union promotes economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity between Member States. We have been called on to solidarity with the countries of southern Europe in the debt crisis, and Estonia has expressed its willingness to do so despite its modest possibilities. While respecting the fundamental principles of the European Union, we have a legitimate expectation that Europe will be able to express its solidarity with Estonia through equal treatment of our farmers. A faster harmonisation of direct payments to farmers in the Baltic States would mean a redistribution of less than 1% of funds under the first pillar of the CAP. This would be a small step for the European Union, but a very important step for farmers in the Baltic countries. Ensuring solidarity costs incomparably less than losing faith in solidarity. The European Union is strong if it takes account of the specificities of the Member States. In many EU countries, more than half of the total land area is arable land, and new measures need to be planned to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture. The European Commission has proposed to create mandatory "ecological focus areas" in all Member States, which means excluding part of the arable land from use. There are currently nearly 300000 hectares of agricultural land in Estonia that has been used, but which we do not currently use. In addition, forests, swamps, bogs, as well as semi-natural communities cover about two thirds of the land. We have taken and will continue to take various measures to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture, including the protection and enhancement of biodiversity, but we cannot agree in any way with the proposal to exclude another significant part of our farmland from use. We look forward to taking account of the specificities of the Member States on this issue. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the statement of the Riigikogu, when the Riigikogu adopts a statement in support of the agricultural sector, it is very important in the final phase of the budget talks in the next financial period. In doing so, the Riigikogu gives a strong signal to the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States about the importance we attach to competitive and sustainable agriculture in the European Union and Estonia. It is also a message to farmers, rural residents and the Estonian agricultural sector in general, reporting that agriculture is seen as an important part of the development of the Estonian economy and of rural areas. In our statement, we call on the Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission to: (1) introduce a system of CAP direct payments which would ensure a level playing field for all farmers in the European Union; (2) move to a new methodology for calculating direct payments in the next financial period of the European Union, which would avoid significant differences between the highest and lowest levels of direct payments in the European Union and take account of economic and environmental criteria; (3) continue to grant direct payments and finance rural development measures in such a way as to ensure the sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas; (4) take a flexible approach, taking into account the specificities of the Member States, as a condition for additional payments for the implementation of environmentally sound agricultural practices, to the proposed 7% ecological focus area requirement; (5) give Member States implementing the single area payment system the possibility to include this land suitable for agricultural production which was not in good agricultural order as at 30 June 2003 and for which it has not been possible to apply for a single area payment so far. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu, the officials of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture, who, with their proposals, have made a very important and important contribution to the text of our statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U682	Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U683	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I had a question about the second paragraph of the statement, which reads as follows: 'The Riigikogu considers that, given the principles of the European Union's internal market and the common values of Europe, it is practical and inevitable to pursue a common and jointly financed agricultural policy. " If it is inevitable to continue, I realize that it has worked well so far. I wonder why this is being emphasised. Is there any danger that this common and jointly financed agricultural policy will not be pursued?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U684	It is also always possible that there is no common agricultural policy in the European Union and no subsidies are granted. This would mean a serious increase in food prices for our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U685	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U686	Thank you. Dear colleague Aivar! This is certainly a very grateful job that you have done and which we are all now promoting together here. Of course, how much such statements and declarations help. But maybe today would be a good time to look back in history and see why we still became so unequal about these subsidies and what was not done in our time. Who, how and why? What could have been done differently, could it have been done differently at all, and was this option missed at that time? What do you say you take a broader look at this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U687	Thank you, Marika! First of all, I would like to say that a great many have participated in the preparation of this draft statement. In our committee, the discussion lasted almost two weeks and all the political groups were expected to make improvements. There were suggestions for improvement everywhere. But when it comes to whether anything could have been done better, it has to be said that at the moment when our subsidies were considered and discussed, Estonian agriculture was not at its best. The yield of our agriculture on which these calculations were made was simply so small. If these calculations were made now, because yields have increased several times, the subsidies would also be considerably higher. With our statement, we want to make it clear to all Member States that it is not possible to be united in the European Union if, in all other matters, we have a level playing field, but our support in agriculture is several times smaller than, for example, Malta. The grant gap is almost sixfold. I think that the Riigikogu, the government, the members of our Euro Parliament and the President have done everything to ensure that justice will come to Estonia once.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U688	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U689	Thank you. If I remember correctly, there was hope that we would be able to accept this statement about a week ago. It didn't work out that way. What's the story now? A week ago, he would've gotten there and started working before the tractor. Am I right to know that an analogous statement is either planned or also made in the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments in order to achieve certain synergies? How far are they with these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U690	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U691	In this sense, you are right that the Baltic States are united on this issue. It's not too late. Since the tractor arrives tomorrow, it is high time that this statement should be accepted by 12 noon today. Fortunately, the text has already been translated into English. We can send it out tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U692	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I sincerely hope that when this statement reaches Brussels, it will be helpful in negotiating more equal CAP direct payments. But if one side of the matter is how the European Union jointly supports a farmer, then we could also talk about how the government of its country views farmers and helps farmers. My question concerns fuel with special labelling. It is also one of the ways in which a country and a coalition of government can help a farmer. The Minister of Agriculture is part of a political party with you. Have you not discussed the possibility of lowering excise duty on the specially labelled fuel used by the farmer and thus helping the farmer during difficult times?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U693	Thank you. I must admit that this issue has not been discussed either in the Commission or in our group. Today, farmers are satisfied with this support system because it corresponds to how much fuel they spend on a field.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U694	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U695	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Such a unanimous statement by parliamentary parties is gratifying. Do you think this actually affects the policy of the European Union? I am referring to the fact that the European Union's budget is very likely to be subject to cuts, and this cut could be hit by a common area of infrastructure, for example, Rail Baltic. If we all believe that this statement will help farmers, in this light, should the Riigikogu not take a decision to support, for example, Rail Baltic or other infrastructure projects that are extremely important for Estonia? Shouldn't this practice be expanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U696	Thank you, good Neeme! I'll take the pressure off first. Agriculture's wallet is a separate wallet. Whether the money in that bag is a little bit more or less is one half of the subject. We are not talking about increasing or reducing money today. The problem is that national subsidies are unequal. There should not be a situation where the difference between the largest and the smallest area payment in the 27 countries is seven times or the difference between the Estonian aid and the average aid twice. We have never said that Estonian farmers should receive as much support as they currently receive in Malta, but we should be discussing that subsidies are equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U697	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U698	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. I am sincerely pleased that you are giving an overview of this remote control of such a powerful agricultural document. I think it's going down in history. That's the most powerful document I've ever had in my memory. But what role has the Ministry of Agriculture played in preparing this document? Would you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U699	Thank you, Esther! The Ministry of Agriculture has certainly played a very important role in preparing this document. The draft we started with was very much made up by the officials and minister of the Ministry of Agriculture. But members of the Riigikogu have played a very clear role in the end result. 63 members of the Riigikogu have signed this application. I looked at the applications for the last ten years, and I saw that these statements had less than 50 signatures. I hope that today, too, history will be made in the sense that there will be no members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber who will not support Estonian agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U700	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U701	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As a former farmer and a long-time worker in agriculture, it is very good for me to sign this statement. I think that supporting an Estonian farmer is a shared responsibility for all of us. But I am concerned about the process of processing this application. This evening we will process this statement and tomorrow the European Council will meet. As a representative of the Commission, can you describe how this statement should now reach Brussels, how it will arrive at the Council's table, and whether the Council will then make changes to the budget for a small Estonia? Is there any way you can describe how this statement will get to Brussels and on the Council table?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U702	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U703	Thank you, Tarmo, for a very good question. You seem to have thought long and hard about that good question. It is not only today that we are dealing with this issue, but that our government and the Minister for Agriculture have been working on it more closely. I hope that if we have taken this decision today, the Chairwoman of the Riigikogu will be able to sign it quickly. Fortunately, there is an internet. It doesn't take much time to send the application. Our own men and women are waiting in Brussels for this paper to be handed over to the right place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U704	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I don't know much about agriculture, but I can read you a few numbers. There were 56000 farms in Estonia in 2001, of which 32000 were those where domestic animals, cattle and pigs were raised. There were 140,000 people working there. Six years later, in 2007, there were 23,000 farms, 13000 animals, and 73000 people, or twice as many, worked there. Does this statement, among other things, help to improve the situation I was talking about, or is it not important at all, it is not mentioned, and we do not need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U705	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U706	Thank you, Mikhail! We all dream that the sky will be bluer and greener, just as our fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers have spoken. But there's nothing to do, technology is evolving. Even now, in very many freehouses, cows are no longer milked by humans, but by robots, with milk production much better. There's nothing to do. The economy is developing and more and more large businesses and large farms are emerging worldwide. Only a few weeks ago, a multi-thousand-headed barn was opened in Estonia. There are small farms, and I'm sure they will, but big farms often just eat the smaller ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U707	Thank you. I repeat what Mikhail Stalnukhin said. I do not share much of agriculture either, although I admit that I am very familiar with agricultural production. So I still have some kind of contact here. When you and I last went to the Baltic Assembly, I think we both realized it was a pretty empty sitting this time. I am saddened that I did not think that I could have come up with a similar statement at the assembly that could have agreed with the Lithuanians and Latvians. What do you say we have a joint statement or we have an agreement with our southern neighbours, maybe we can do a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U708	I must admit that we are not the first to make this statement. Neighbors have been able to make this statement sooner than we have. I would like to emphasise once again that agricultural policy is a few things that the Baltic States are very united in dealing with and in which they support each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U709	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U710	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! For God's sake, I'd say on that statement. A year ago, in November, when the Baltic Assembly celebrated its 20th birthday, a great document was made on the same subject, which maybe some didn't even notice. Nine months ago, in February 2012, I had the opportunity to hand over in Brussels, together with my colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania, a joint statement by the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Parliament on the same subject that we are talking about today. The content of the document and the exciting discussion cannot fit in a minute. The main opposition to the Baltic States was that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania woke up very late and at important meetings where the matter was discussed, no one was present from Estonia. If a junior official takes part in a ministerial meeting, he will not be taken seriously. In my opinion, the separate decision of the Estonian Parliament nine months after the same joint decision is a very weak argument. How do we explain that we're gonna bang doors at home and fight, but we're gonna get to Brussels with our stories a whole embryonic period later? Who is responsible for our Parliament having a short memory or information blockade?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U711	Thank you, Aadu! If you have read the explanatory memorandum to this application, I hope you have, you know that it also contains all the previous statements. The fact that the parliament of the Estonian state is turning to the European Union with a clear message and also showing farmers and producers that we are in the same boat with them is, in my opinion, an important side of this statement. If an official has failed to do anything, I can't comment on that. But I see that today is the last chance to support Estonian agriculture. One way for members of the Riigikogu to do this is through a statement made by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U712	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U713	Good waitress! There were few people who were neither farmers nor farmers, but were trying to help farmers in Estonia. They were disgustingly called Eurosceptics. It was 2002 and 2003. When you just said that the President of the Republic is doing everything in his power to help the Estonian farmer, you know, I did. At the time, the same young man was the Estonian Foreign Minister and said that neither, nor the content of agriculture, mattered, it was important to close the chapter. The chapter had to be closed, under what conditions, no one was interested in it. You indicated that politicians have a terrible will to help a farmer. As a Eurosceptic, I say that ten years ago this will was not there. Do you believe it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U714	Good Igor! I have to admit with shame that I really do not know what was done in this Chamber in 2003. But I read both the internet and the press, and at least there all politicians from the President to the members of the Riigikogu say very clearly that they support the common agricultural policy. I sincerely hope that happiness will come to our court.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U715	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U716	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I also have a question about happiness. You replied that either by post or over the Internet, the application would reach Brussels. But I have this question: what happens after that? I understand our neighbors have already prepared such statements. How are they doing? As far as I understand, the budget for the coming year will be ready in the Commission, in December they will confirm it. Our proposal doesn't go in there. Or is there something I don't know? Can you tell me how this thing practically gets going?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U717	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U718	Thank you, good questioner! I can tell you today that nothing has yet been decided anywhere and hardly will be decided tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. These figures will be in place by spring next year. If we do not impose today and show our will very clearly, it is said: 'If your national parliament does not want it, why should it be taken into account? ' That is why this statement has been brought to this hall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U719	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I do not know whether this tractor will be allowed to drive on the streets of Brussels if it does not have an approval, nor whether it will know who the men and women you have promised are who are looking forward to there. The question is this: will this statement be handed over to the European Parliament, the European Commission or the Commissioner for Agriculture? Who's that? Do we know how this application is going to be processed specifically, or are we just sending a tractor back there now like a hurrah?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U720	Thank you, Viktor! It is very sad to ask, although it is not recommended to read even the first sentence of the statement. The statement states very clearly that it is intended for the Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission. As for whether or not this tractor gets to Brussels, he'll be put on a trailer if he gets tired in the meantime. He'll be there, I don't doubt that. The farmers in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are strong enough to get there with a tractor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U721	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U722	Thank you. Dear Aivar Chef! On Tuesday, an extraordinary meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee took place, where the Prime Minister, among other things, said that Herman Van Rompuy had come up with a proposal that only 59% of the average level of agricultural subsidies should be granted to Estonia. Now you're saying we're sending it on the way to our application, Ene Ergma will sign and press the Send button. It seems to me that when a fine Estonian statement arrives in the European Union's mailboxes, no one will use Google's translation programme and think about what they are saying here. How is translation of this application organised before pressing the Send button? What languages will it be translated into?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U723	Good Kadri! You may have been out of the hall for a while, I didn't notice, but I mentioned earlier that the application text has already been translated into English. The signatures are written in Estonian as well as in English. The official language of Estonia is Estonian, but the English version goes to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U724	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U725	Thank you. Honourable performer! I belong to those who signed this fine statement. I like this paper. I understand that this is a document that is just good when it is spoken of, but I really want to come back to this issue again. You said that women in Brussels are already waiting with open arms to pick up the paper tomorrow and run. Will our Euro ambassadors also be waiting there and the representative of IRL Tunne Kelam also there with open arms, coat and hat, waiting for me to rush to several floors to wave this paper and hand it somewhere? The second part of the question: is the Estonian version of this statement also included in the man's pocket on this Belarus, just in case, so that you can read it on the street? Are these details discussed or known?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U726	Thank you, Heimar! If the second reading of the state budget had not lasted so long, this application could have been accompanied by the same tractor. However, a piece of paper which has no power, i.e. which the Riigikogu has not authorised the President of the Riigikogu to sign. But if you ask whether both your political party and my political party and the Members of Parliament belonging to the rest of the political parties are prepared to go around with this paper, then I am absolutely sure that all of our Members of the European Parliament are prepared to support this statement. To be honest, these letters are still sent to a specific address, they don't have to be sent by mail pigeon.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U727	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U728	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Today you have already spoken repeatedly about the happiness that may have to do with this future agricultural policy. You come from a region where the Republic of Estonia has a waterline, namely Peipsi. If these direct payments are to reach levels like those in the rest of Europe, do you think that the villages near Peipsi, where fishing is the main activity, in addition to onion farming, will somehow be a source of happiness, or will this support be concentrated on such traditional agricultural sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U729	Thank you, Mailis! The Peipsi region will certainly also be a part of this if people living at the Peipsi border are good and active. For the last few weeks, we've heard a lot about Peipsi onion. Fortunately, members of the Riigikogu have also formed a Peipsiveere support group that is very active in this area. Together with the people of the Ministry of Agriculture, it has been found that one measure has not been used to support the so-called hand-grown onions. When growing a Peipsi onion, the ground is not cultivated by a tractor, but by a shovel.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U730	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U731	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! According to the European Commission's proposal, direct payments in Estonia would increase to 58% of the European Union average by the end of the next financial period of the European Union, which is certainly far from the principle of solidarity. The proposed solution clearly does not satisfy Estonian leaders or farmers. Similarly, faster harmonisation of direct payments is being pursued by our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Lithuania. In order to achieve real results, we need more allies on this issue. What steps have been taken to obtain the support of other European Union countries, and with which specific countries can we take into account our proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U732	Thank you. The Minister will certainly give you a better answer to this question if he speaks afterwards. But I can tell you that one of our biggest partners is Germany, with whom this issue has been discussed for a long time. They have very clearly supported our subsidies not between 58% but between 70% and 75%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U733	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U734	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I heard through the media that the countries of southern Europe are opposed to equalising agricultural subsidies. Can you explain what this is about? Have we helped and supported the Greeks little?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U735	No, I do not want to believe that Greece is against this, because Greece's support is not on the top either, but on the other side. If you look south at all, maybe some countries have an even greater interest in equalization there than we do. If you look at olive cultivation, they are completely out of direct payments money. Our little fear is that our statement may be accompanied by a new wave of demands when several other countries of the European Union are beginning to want exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U736	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U737	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! A few years ago, in this Chamber, we discussed a statement relating to the construction of Nord Stream and what was happening around it. You could say it was all more on paper and disappeared like water in the sand. Aren't you afraid that the future of this statement (I, by the way, support this statement and I signed it) is the same as that of the Nord Stream statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U738	Thank you, Valeri! As a serious player, I remind you, it's good to have friends' support in your back pocket. This statement is, in fact, just as clear the support of the parliament of the Estonian state for the Minister. If this support is clearly stated, I think the Minister will have a much better chance of kicking these doors open and demanding that Estonian farmers receive more equal subsidies than the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U739	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. Please report to the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Kalvi Tõud.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U740	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I am sincerely pleased to be on this board and as a representative of the Commission to present the Riigikogu's statement on 'Estonian agriculture and the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy' at this one single reading, as the draft statement is usually adopted in this Chamber by one reading. As my good colleague from the Committee on Rural Affairs, Vice-President of the Commission Aivar Kokk, read the text of this statement in his report, or as representative of 63 colleagues who have tabled the draft, I will not read it to you. I am talking about the things that we have been talking about in the discussions in the Commission, not only in the last few weeks, but also in the past. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember what happened here exactly a year ago? Who performed here on the remote exactly a year ago, on 21 November 2011? That was Jerzy Buzek, President of the European Parliament at the time. What did he tell us here? In his speech, he said, among other things: "You have some doubts as to whether this policy (He had in mind the common agricultural policy). (K.K.) is fair enough. We are facing a reform of the common agricultural policy and we do not know how this debate will end. But it is certainly important to take this into account that, in a country like the Estonian people, they feel and are convinced that they are being treated fairly, as in all other countries. I understand very well the hopes of you and your citizens. ' That is what the President of the European Parliament said a year ago on this very platform. By the time the President spoke on this board, the Commission had already proposed a reform of the common agricultural policy. We know of this Commission proposal, which was presented on 12 October 2011, that the level of direct payments to Estonia is 156 euros, or 58% of the European average. We knew the overall objective that the European Commission had in order to bring direct payments to 90% of the European average, but the time it took did not satisfy us at all. The goal was noble, but we were not satisfied for too long to reach the end result. Since then, this issue has been in various formats in this Chamber. This has been discussed in briefings and answers to questions. On 25 November, the Baltic Assembly adopted a resolution calling on the Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission to harmonise direct payments for agriculture in such a way that there are no significant differences between the levels of support and to move from 1 January 2014 to new methods for calculating direct payments and to continue supporting agriculture and rural areas in order to ensure sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas in the European Union. It was the Baltic Assembly. On 12 April, a joint meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Parliament took place right here in the building of the Riigikogu, during which the chairmen of these committees signed a joint declaration expressing dissatisfaction with the pace of harmonisation of direct payments proposed by the European Commission. This declaration was also forwarded to national parliaments, the European Parliament and the European Commission. Less than a month after sending out this declaration, Mr Ciolos, the European Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, also responded, in a few sentences, that he understood our concerns and that he would do everything in his power to change this situation. There has been action within the walls of this house as well. Namely, many of you signed a joint declaration at the premises of the Rural Affairs Committee when the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, together with Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, collected signatures for the joint declaration in June this year to support the harmonisation of direct payments during the next budget period of the European Union. 25,000 signatures were collected. We may think that we have really done so much, that we have already done everything. Then why the joint statement again? But we know that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there will be a meeting of the Heads of Government in Brussels to discuss the draft budget for the years 2014 to 2020. I dare say that it is at this meeting that our agricultural subsidies will be fixed. The latest developments, as far as I know, show that our issue of unequal subsidies has not been included in the budget plan's negotiating plan. It's a sign of serious danger. This is not included in the amendments. On the table is the paper that Mr Rompuy brought before the heads of government, which once again has 58% inside. Although we had a little glimpse of hope. Indeed, the report by the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on this Council Regulation establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy. The rapporteur was Mr Santos. In this report we can read that the minimum number of direct payments that a Member State can receive is 65% of the average level. It was a very large beam of light for us. But now, once again, there are papers on the heads of government's desk, which says 58%. Consequently, I believe that we need to make both today's statement and more action and statements that the grant should be distributed more jointly and severally. We do not agree with what the European Commission is offering us. If you now come to the text of the statement by the Riigikogu, I will mention some of the major issues that have often been the subject of debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs over this year, even two years. I dare say that every time we discuss future perspectives, these issues are on the table. One issue really is the inequality of direct payments, but that is what I have already talked about. The second point is greening. Good friends! The European Commission has proposed that 7% of arable land currently in active use should be excluded from production during greening. Let me say a few numbers here. Do you guys know that 52% of the area of Estonia is under the forest, i.e. 52% of our homeland is under the forest? 18% are nature reserves, plus marine nature reserves. This 18% is on land. 7% are lakes. The rest is everything else. Only 20% of our land is arable land. Where do we get the 7% here? There is one point in our statement: Member States must be given flexibility so that they can decide for themselves the greening areas. In Estonia, where a small field ends with forest, ditch, brush, pile of stone or something like that, it is not practical if we take 7% of this already small or limited resource out of active agricultural production. For that we have swamps, nature reserves, forests. Another important nuance: we need to worry not only about the size of direct payments. The 'envelope' of the whole agricultural policy, the second axis, or support for the rural development plan, is important to us. We certainly must not make concessions to increase direct payments at the expense of the rural development plan, the second axis. These grants are primarily intended for those areas that were asked about in this Chamber. We have few small productions left; the number of people employed in the agricultural sector remains small. It is these second-axis subsidies that we are reviving life on land as a whole, including support for agriculture. Support for the second axis is intended both now and probably during the next financial perspective, as we can read from the European Commission's papers, precisely to support small producers. Now to the decisions of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Following the adoption of the draft procedure, the Rural Commission discussed the statement 'Estonian agriculture and the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy' at 306 its two meetings: s. a on 5 and 12 November. It must be said that the Commission also took part in the preparation of the draft statement, discussing this statement already before it was put into procedure on 22 October. One might say that it was at this meeting that this draft statement was very much formed. At this meeting, proposals from all the political groups were on the table, as the Committee on Rural Affairs has members from all the political groups. At the meeting on 5 November, it was decided to appoint Kalvi Tõud, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as well as myself, to send the draft to the Riigikogu for reading on 15 November 2012, but I could only come to this Chamber to report this draft on 21 November. The Bureau had set the deadline of 8 November at 6 p.m. for the submission of amendments when the draft had been adopted. By this time no amendments to the draft were received from the political groups of the Riigikogu. At its meeting on 12 November, a number of points in the application were discussed again and the linguistic amendments made by the language editor and the harmonisation of the style of the application were reviewed. The committee decided to submit the linguistically adjusted text of the draft to the Riigikogu plenary session for the first reading. According to § 154 (7) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the final vote on the draft statement of the Riigikogu is taken at first reading. As the lead committee, the Rural Commission proposes to adopt the draft as a statement. It should be said that the adoption of the draft requires a majority of votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U741	Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. You have many questions. Starts with colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U742	Thank you. Dear waitress, I asked half an hour ago how to assess this process, that the number of people employed in agriculture, for example, fell in six years, between 2001 and 2007, exactly twice: from 140000 to 70,000. I have explained that technological processes in agriculture increase the efficiency of work and there is no tragedy here. But I love statistics and I like numbers. For example, I know that in 1987 800,000 cattle were raised in Estonia, but in 2007 250,000 were raised. The number of pigs has decreased two and a half times and the number of dairy cows is three times less. Does this process matter, and can this statement change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U743	Thank you. This statement is intended primarily for the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union. These are the questions you have raised, a good colleague, which we can largely decide within our own country, although under European rules of play. What do I mean? We know that 80% of the bread, milk and meat on our table is produced by 20% of farms, while 80% of the farms produce only 20% of the food on our table. The 20% of large companies producing the majority have brought their work to a very effective level. Of course, the more they use technology, the less manpower is needed. At the same time, we know that 80% of our farmers, although producing a very small proportion of the bread on our table, actually employ a very significant proportion of those who are currently employed in agriculture (three to four percent of those who are employed). There are a large number of stakeholders involved in the rural development plan (this is a national document). With this development plan, we can channel support for the rural development plan in such a way that we can live and deliver companies that have not made their production effective. These are small companies, but they carry a very large amount of the painting's way of life. We call these small businesses fondly farms. These are the tools of the rural development plan that we can give them an opportunity. There are also measures in the rural development plan that we can support non-agricultural activities. Of course, there will be additional Leader activities that will help create jobs and increase the motivation of people in rural areas, through civil society and cooperation. I hope I got my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U744	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U745	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you very much for these good explanations. I think that this problem has now become clear to those who are very far from agriculture. I also support what has been said many times in this report that, even though there have been all kinds of appeals, any new approach is absolutely necessary until the matter is resolved. But now I come to the text of the statement. The Riigikogu invites the Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission to do one thing and another. There are five points, the first, the second, the fourth and the fifth of which are perfectly clear, but there are some questions about the text of the third point, which seems a little inaccurate. It states that there must be continued financing in order to ensure the development of agriculture. It looks like it's been well funded so far. Why don't you explain this point a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U746	I'll try. We know what will be discussed in tomorrow's Council, where our Prime Minister will go. The Council shall have a different opinion on the volume of the financial framework among the Member States. We know that Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Denmark, Austria, Sweden, the Netherlands and Finland, for example, would like to contribute less to the single currency. In this context, it would reduce the money that the European Union can use in its activities. Their proposal foresees a cut of €140 billion on average. But some of them, as far as we know, would like to cut even more. In fact, the essence of our statement and rhetoric is that Europe also competes with other major economic spaces in agriculture. These are America and China, for example. We must not lose competitiveness in Europe as a whole. The volume of support to be channelled into the common agricultural policy must be sustainable. This is how I, as one of the signatories, understand this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U747	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U748	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! As I said to the previous rapporteur on the question, I sincerely hope that this statement and cooperation between the Baltic States will help if our leaders go to the European Council to discuss this issue. In the same way, I hope that it will be useful to send Belarus to Brussels, which is due to arrive tomorrow. I also sincerely hope that the 25 000 signatures that have been gathered and sent to Brussels by the organisations supporting farmers will be useful. But it seems to me that our country's government has not done everything to help its farmers. How do you feel about the government of the Republic doing everything in its power to help farmers, and what more should it do? Are there any questions that are particularly urgent?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U749	Good questioner! For starters, it's pretty fancy Belarus, I watched the picture. One South-Estonian potato grower, who is self-employed, carries one in the field. With such a tractor, many other farmers in the field, especially 80%, produce a small portion of the food on our table. Has the government done everything? Perhaps I can say that this was not discussed by the Commission. Although the Commission has discussed whether the excise duty on our farmers' fuel, or blue fuel, must be so high. It's one of the highest. Great praises from the Commission to the government that this year's budget has such an amount for top-up. This has also been discussed in the Commission. So these are the things that have been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U750	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U751	Thank you. Honourable performer! It cannot be said that you had a very interesting presentation, even in my opinion as a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. I heard some very interesting figures and things. I'm surprised you're good at your speech. I've never heard a lot of calls like this before. I might want to hear from you as an experienced farmer a little bit more of a philosophy. We have talked many times about what happens now from the statement, but what does your gut say: is there any change in the money that is meant for the years 2014 to 2020? How do you feel inside, if there's a change, or if it's still going to be on the current level? I just mean that kind of gut. What do farmers think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U752	Thank you. I can't talk so much about my gut right now in this remote control. I guess I'll come over here and talk about my gut later. But I will talk a little bit about the figures that we have been on the table in the Committee on Rural Affairs for this debate. We know that single area payments are the smallest in the Baltic countries, and they remain the smallest in the European Commission's offer. The Estonian rate according to the new offer is 156 euros per hectare. We have also discussed this issue with our Baltic colleagues. I must say that the Committee on Rural Affairs has a very good connection with them. Although the Lithuanian Parliament is in the process of electing a new chairman of the committee in the coming days, Edmundas Pupinis is no longer the chairman of the committee and someone else is elected. Of course, the starting point on which we are based is that of the Minister and also of our members of the European Parliament, so that we can move upwards on this scale, taking into account the Baltic distinction: we are a small, good country that has done a great deal, but we are at the end of everything for certain historical reasons. Where are we going? We need to move to the same level as Romania, which is offered EUR 200 per hectare under the new plan, which is 74.75% of the average. I can say that as chairman of the committee, who attends the general assembly meetings with the chairmen of the other committees. That's the level we can actually move to. Of course, our target is 90% of the average level already in this financial period. But let's see the reality: if we go past Romania with the Baltic distinction, we can no longer call it the Baltic difference, then it is already a bigger and broader agreement. Maybe that next percentage could be 74.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U753	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U754	Thank you. Good colleague! You were talking a little bit about the level that this percentage of support could rise to. But could it ever reach 90%, what do you think? The other part of the question is a little backwards again. If we had been better able to ask years ago, would we now have more support? Or is the round of negotiations at that time nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U755	Thank you. You had two questions. Why our level of support is now EUR 117 and why this level was so low at the time, Mr Aivar explained this a little bit. For those countries that joined us, the basis for the calculation was the reference year, which took into account the current situation in agriculture and the harvest. But we know that in 2003, our crops were very, very small. We had just come from another system and built up our agricultural system. The harvests were small, but based on them, our support system was approved. As the subsidies will be decoupled from production in the future, we are now just at this level. Perhaps we could have made better decisions back then. But I do not think it was perceived then that if we receive very small agricultural support from Europe, we will have to pay top-up over the years, during the time of various governments and ministers from our state budget. It's not paid too little, it's paid quite a lot. You can look at those sums. This is our own country's money, which could have gone somewhere else when we made decisions in this Chamber if we had received a larger package of money than Europe. Perhaps it was not perceived that if we accept smaller subsidies, we must bet our own money. As regards whether this will change anything, if we are to adopt this statement, we must, of course, do so and we must explain all this. As is also known from the European Commission's proposal, there is a direction towards 90%. I do not exactly remember the Commission's proposal at the moment, but we believe that this is a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U756	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U757	Thank you, Madam President. My mother-in-law puts a bag of potatoes in the ground every spring and picks up that same bag of potatoes in the fall. Except spring potatoes buy from his neighbors, pretty big and pretty others, but in the autumn he picks up a bag of tiny and crooked ones. I was wondering why. Afterward, I discovered that there were more small ones in the bag, even though the weight was the same. I deeply regret the time I invest in this activity because the mother-in-law still has to support it, it's like a son-in-law's duty. What if something similar is happening to the European Union? They don't want to support what we're growing here. What if we asked the Saxons what they'd like to support? So that's what we could grow. The potato is not Estonian national food; it was brought here in the 18th century either by the Germans or by the Russians, in any case by the occupationrs at the time. What if we grow something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U758	Thank you. Potato is the right thing to grow. Potato is one of the food products that Estonia is able to equip itself with. Potato is among the vegetables and more vegetables could be grown in Estonia. But give my mother-in-law my phone number, I'll give him a few good tips on how to grow a potato. As for what we need to grow in this Estonian country and what we need to consider important, Europe actually gives us a very broad framework for which cultures could receive support, but these include almost everything that we have here. Perhaps what is one or the other priority to which we are going more towards is also, to a very large extent, the 'question' of the rural development plan. In order to make the right choices, a preparatory steering committee for the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014-2020 has been convened at the Ministry. This committee is very broad-based. It is likely that the decision that comes from there will be consensual and negotiated with a great many. Since this is quite an important matter, I can tell you who is involved in this steering committee: Estonian Farmers' Confederation, Estonian Farmers' Confederation, Estonian Agricultural Chamber, Estonian Young Farmers, Estonian Gardening Federation, EVEA, Estonian Village Movement Kodukant, Leader Forum, Estonian Environmental Associations Koda, Estonian Private Forest Association, Estonian Society of Land Improvements, Estonian Food Industry Association, Estonian Dairy Association, Organic Agricultural Cooperation Council, Estonian Rural Tourism and Rows of Ministries, as well as Rural Development Foundation, Rural Economy Information Centre, Estonian University of Life Sciences, Estonian Association of Rural Government, Estonian Association of Saving and Loan Cooperatives, Tasty Southern Estonia, Agricultural Research Centre and, of course, PRIA. So, as you can see, this organizational ampoua is still covering the whole sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U759	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U760	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Committee on Rural Affairs, thank you very much for your in-depth answers to our colleagues on agricultural issues. Do you think this is the right time to adopt such a Parliament statement and send it on the way, or should it have been done earlier? Why are we doing this right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U761	Good colleague! We have, at parliamentary level, I dare say, adopted a series of statements of various assemblies, which I mentioned here earlier, such as the statements of the Baltic Assembly or the statements of the Rural Committee of the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments. We have also participated in the actions of our farmers. I think that now is the time to accept the statement of the Riigikogu and send it to Europe. If I ask why this has not been done before, I dare say now, on my own behalf, that there was Parliament's report, which is now in Parliament's proceedings, and which has been proposed more than 2 000 specifically in relation to the reform of direct payments. This report contained 65%. I think that all these statements, the work of our Members of the European Parliament, the Minister and the members of the Estonian Parliament in Europe, have really benefited. But now that our head of government is at a meeting of prime ministers and there is a piece of paper on the table that says 58%, we have to do a lot, a lot and a lot of this work. You still have to drip that drop of water on the rock for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U762	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U763	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! If this statement is necessary for our minister and the government in the European Union, it is likely that both the coalition and the opposition will vote in favour of it. That's self-evident. My question concerns the support repeatedly declared by Germany. The last statement by the German Minister of Agriculture on the European Union's common agricultural subsidies, on which I have data, was in Estonian, reads something like this: 'Germany understands the requests of the Baltic States to be reviewed for unfairly low agricultural payments and is prepared to give up a certain part of the payments paid to German farmers in the case (and here comes the main one, which makes this almost zero. A. M.), if other Member States of the European Union do so. ' Do you have at your disposal an official German position in which their support is not linked to similar decisions by other countries that are unlikely to be reached? After all, other countries claim that we have cheap Belarus tractors that make production cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U764	Thank you, my good colleague. No, we don't have any such documents. I can rely here on what the Minister has told us at the meetings of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Indeed, Germany is one of our supporters. I don't have any papers or assurances as to whether or not this is the case. However, I do know, or dare say to you, that Germany is one of those who wants to make the overall budget of the European Union a little smaller. Of course, I do not think this is in Estonia's interest. It has also been mentioned in the Commission that there is still no such direct support from Germany. I also did not realise at the last meeting of the chairmen of the rural committees in Cyprus to ask the head of the German Representation. The chairman of the German Commission was not present.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U765	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U766	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Thanks to me, too, for a very good presentation and performance! But I have such a pragmatic question. Perhaps I will continue with the question that was put before. We do or we don't, but without a partner, we can't confirm our interests. Can you tell us if we have allies or partners? There was some talk about Germany here. Or is this statement a pretty first step and we're just starting to look for these allies or partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U767	Thank you, my good colleague. One thing I can say with 100% certainty: this is, as I recall, the second commission here in the Riigikogu, working closely with my Baltic colleagues. The National Defence Committee works closely with its Baltic counterparts and the Rural Affairs Committee has also met with its Baltic counterparts in the last year. I have often spoken on the phone with Edmundas Pupinis, the previous Chairman of the Lithuanian Commission, as well as with my Latvian colleague Vjaceslavs Dombrovskis. This is one place where the Baltic States are walking one step. Then, as I understand it, the next group will come. These are those whose level of support is below the average; these are the newest entrants. But when we look at Europe as a whole, the large countries have a'majority' in the Council of Ministers and in the meetings of agriculture ministers. The collective strength of countries with currently low subsidies and new Member States remains low. We must put emphasis on the Baltic diversity, which, in the context of the overall budget of the European Union, does not result in a large amount at all. If we do not rise ahead of Romania, do not want it or demand it, I very much hope that any compromise and consensus will be found in the light of the Baltic differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U768	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U769	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also continue with the issue of cooperation between the Baltic States. We know that there was a meeting of agriculture ministers from three countries in January 2012 and they signed a declaration. That was the first step. But two weeks ago there was a grand assembly of the Baltic Assembly, and there was more talk about other things: nuclear power station, gas, LNG terminal and all, but there was no talk about agriculture. I understand things are a little complicated in Lithuania. But is it hoped that such statements will also come from the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U770	Thank you. According to my knowledge, the Latvian Parliament adopted an analogous statement based mainly on the same points of concern some six months ago. I cannot say anything about the Lithuanian Parliament's statement in this regard. The reason is because it was an election, it was a very busy time. I called Edmundas Pupinis to ask them how they feel about it. I couldn't get in touch with him. Now he is no longer in Parliament. For Lithuania, I owe an answer, but there is such a statement in Latvia. I have the text of this statement. I can e-mail it to anyone who wants it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U771	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U772	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, good colleague! We consider the main cause of the difficulties at all times to be that direct subsidies for agriculture in the European Union are too small for our farmers. That is true, because it is very difficult for our farmers to compete in the single agricultural market with different rates of support. At the same time, I think that you agree that it is very much possible for farmers to do our own Estonian state. Why are the rates of excise duty paid by our farmers so high? Why do dairy farms have to pay environmental fees that, to my knowledge, are unique in the European Union? How should we support farmers if we take such measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U773	Thank you, good questioner! We have discussed the level of excise duty in the Commission. The Minister of Agriculture has also been involved in this conversation. As the Minister for Agriculture replied in this Chamber on Monday, this issue falls within the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs within the walls of our house. Indeed, the Committee on Rural Affairs must also shake a little bit of ash on its head, because we could have a joint meeting with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, discussing this subject, but we have not done that. So it is a serious issue that should be discussed in cooperation with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As regards the issue of complex permits, I have been planning with Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, and in the first days of December we will have a joint meeting of our committees to which we intend to invite representatives of the Minister for the Environment and Agriculture and also of producer organisations. A letter from the Chairman of the Environment Commission and the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, Üllas Wolf, came into my mailbox yesterday, asking for an explanation of this long-lasting problem. He asks where there are changes to the bill, which are acceptable to farmers. I must admit that the same questions will probably have to be put to the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs. We hope that the ministries will prepare these changes and we will certainly offer our help, if necessary, to resolve these problems and find a compromise. This is the situation with these two fields of activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U774	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U775	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee! I am extremely pleased that today the bill is being defended by a person who has his own heart in this matter. The answers feel that this subject is very close to your heart. Can you predict what will happen to our agricultural sector if European Union subsidies increase and what will happen if they remain at the current level?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U776	Good questioner! Of course, during the debates in the Commission, we have discussed what happens when subsidies increase. However, we have also discussed what happens when subsidies decrease. We have also discussed what will happen if European Union subsidies remain at the level that the Commission is proposing. I do not have this information at my disposal, but I can say that if European Union subsidies remain at the level that the Commission proposes, the support paid to farmers will be reduced. While additional payments are being paid to farmers this year and also next year (the top-up is known in this Chamber), the European aid and top-up, when put together, will be higher than the aid that farmers will receive in the coming year from the first payment to be made under the draft proposed by the Commission. Of course, we have also discussed in the Commission what will happen if the level of subsidies increases. Since active land users, or food producers, have a good number of rental land in Estonia, a very significant increase in rent prices is also expected if the level of subsidies increases. Of course, we have discussed in discussions and discussions that if the level of subsidies falls and if it falls in Europe, then the common market must regulate it. But we are in the big market, we are in Russia that is not part of the European Union, China is farther away. The single European agricultural market is also affected by this price. So there's a lot of discussion and question points here. In any case, we must make sure that the common European instruments do not decrease and that the instruments that come to implement the common agricultural policy are certainly not reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U777	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U778	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Agricultural subsidies have recently been a very hot topic. However, we also have other rural businesses. I could cynically say that if the snow did not come off, I could also receive support from the ski tourism developer in Estonia, because I could not manage my economic activities normally because there was no snow. But that's it. It seems to me that there is always a fight around these agricultural subsidies. Would it not be wise for Estonia to present such a version in the European Union in order not to pay any support at all? Food prices could be allowed to reach the level they need to reach. Then it ends with the abnormal situation that a litre of milk costs only about a third of the price per litre of diesel. This is a completely abnormal situation. We're always fighting about that money. Maybe we could have a weather?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U779	Good Aivar! As I said, we also had this debate during the drafting of this statement. I daresay there are different opinions in this Chamber, too. So the members of the committee and the authors of this statement, 63 members of the Riigikogu who have signed it, had a different opinion on it. I thought one, but some member of the Commission thinks one of you. So the Commission's view, as such, that no agricultural payments should be paid in Europe at all, cannot be said here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U780	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U781	Thank you. Madam Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. As one of the signatories myself, I think that such a statement may still be useful. At the same time, I have noticed that there are different views among Estonian politicians about which strategy should be chosen in order to obtain a more favourable support system for Estonian farmers. The Chairman of the IRL has even said that we should demand our rights more forcefully and threaten the rest of the European Union countries that if we do not get equal treatment, we will veto the entire budget of the European Union. Did the Committee on Rural Affairs discuss this and, if it was discussed and rejected, is it expected that such a veto should accompany Prime Minister Ansip with the Committee on European Union Affairs? Or does the Committee on Rural Affairs think that there is no way to veto, because even if this support is small, it is more helpful than anything at all? Was that discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U782	Thank you, Kadri! No, it wasn't discussed. Many of the members of the Rural Affairs Committee were present at the event of Tartu, where the chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association made this point. But there have been other proposals on how to act to put pressure on the so-called equalisation of the single area payment. With the help of the Committee on Rural Affairs at the conference of the farmer of the year in this House, the President of the Republic, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, said that we could go even as far as that, that if we could not trade equal subsidies in the negotiations, we could turn to the European Court of Justice. So there are really different options and ideas. But I dare say that it is not a favourable situation for Estonian farmers if the budget negotiations are to be closed and, in the first year of the next period, you have to live up to the budgetary principles of this period, because then our subsidies are not even 58% of the European average, but they are at the current level. It is certainly the desire of the agricultural sector to move forward with the budget for the new period and to start immediately in the first year of the period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U783	Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U784	Thank you. Chairman of the Commission, I would like to congratulate you on the holding of this seminar on agriculture. Looking at these questions, it seems to me that you have to repeat it. But I will return to the statement we are discussing here today. My colleague, Aivar Kokk, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, worked hard to draft this text, adopted proposals from both the left and the right. What is your assessment of the text of this statement as committee chairman? What grade would you give it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U785	Thank you. The text of the statement is very good. Many thanks to Aivar, many thanks to many members of the Riigikogu and also to our committee officials! The text of the application changed somewhat from the original text. I think it got more targeted. I sincerely hope that those to whom we send this statement will read this text thoroughly and with thought. I think that the text that we have on our tables and that we have presented together in this Chamber should help to achieve the objective for which we are sending it to Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U786	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U787	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! I, too, would like to congratulate you on your very thorough answers. This text certainly has a significant impact in many respects. It is also important for the Riigikogu that we have discussed the agricultural issue very seriously, which has certainly been noticed outside the Riigikogu. Today, when you talk about the text, you have repeatedly emphasised that it is aimed more at the Commission and Parliament. Perhaps here, almost in conclusion, it would also be appropriate for the Commission to look at how this text could affect the members of the European Parliament, including, for example, the representatives of Estonia in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U788	Thank you, good questioner! This should certainly affect at least the members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia. That is one argument, one milestone on which everyone can rely: the Minister in the negotiations, our Members of the European Parliament and all of us when we communicate with our fellow Members from other parliaments. It is certainly a milestone and a sure point on which to build. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U789	Mr President, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aare Heinvee, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, will be invited to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U790	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group supports the Riigikogu statement on agriculture in Estonia and the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy. This supports the existence of domestic food commodities and the sustainability of rural areas. The CAP is one of the most central policies of the European Union, covering 43% of the EU budget, i.e. EUR 53 billion per year, of which the direct payments represent 47%. It is an old and rigid system that has gradually been tried to reform. Any support is distortion of the market situation and protectionism. There is an increase in bureaucracy, while the agricultural support package is very mixed. According to the fundamental principles of the European Union, we attach great importance to equal conditions of competition in the common economic space, taking into account climate and environmental conditions. However, based on real policy, the solution for the next financial period will be to increase direct payments for Estonian farmers, not to harmonise our support by reducing direct payments from other countries. However, the overall volume of direct payments under the common agricultural policy should not be increased. The equality of direct payments must not be at the expense of rural development either. The current Estonia-specific NAP of 50% for the first pillar as direct payments and 50% for the second pillar as rural development should remain valid. The current average level of direct payments in the European Union is EUR 280 per hectare. We support the direction of the European Commission to ensure that the level of direct payments in any Member State will not be below 90% of the average in the future. The minimum that could be accepted in the coming financial period is the equalisation of all direct payments from the Baltic States with direct payments from Romania, i.e. 75% of the European Union average, or EUR 210 per hectare. In this case too, this would be the lowest level in the European Union. The price of equality would be only 0.07% of the CAP budget. It is only a matter of will and real solidarity. Estonia's GDP per capita and agricultural subsidies are correlated. We should not accept that the European Union does not appreciate the Estonian economy and considers our prospects for development to be modest. Estonia's future must not be a land of easy and cheap work. In the long term, first of all, we consider it important to have budgetary flexibility, i.e. a gradual reduction in ownership direct payments and continued support for investments, rural enterprises and rural areas. In other words, we prefer rural measures, i.e. the line to direct payments, i.e. fish. Secondly, we consider it important that R &amp; D and innovation be contributed much more. Thirdly, the system of direct payments should be simplified and made more effective. Fourthly, market management measures should be developed. Fifthly, agricultural land actually used should be eligible for support, active farmers should be supported and the requirement of a 7% eco-zone should be treated flexibly. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U791	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U792	Although the common agricultural policy is not the answer to all rural problems, agriculture remains a key factor in rural life. The agricultural sector is certainly one of the country's security risks in terms of securing the security of domestic food supply for its inhabitants. Product development and the competitiveness of our farmers are directly linked to the investments being made and depend on the level of support. Bioenergy and water management still have a major development perspective. Valuable jobs will be added. It is an effective tool against urbanisation. The problem of aftergrowth in agriculture will be alleviated. It is worth noting that the creation of greater added value for agricultural products and the production of agricultural products imported to date on their own land are an important counterbalance to the country's external trade balance. Necessary investment in support systems, such as land improvement and roads and bridges, is also essential, sometimes with only two to four years of payback. Large producers will survive under unequal conditions of competition, but modernisation of agriculture will lead to job losses. If we expect greater solidarity from the European Union, we must also have solidarity in our own country. Farmers who have received less support so far deserve more equal treatment. All countries in the world support their agriculture, though in very different ways. Whether the trade negotiations between the European Union and the United States, which supports significantly more farmers, will lead to fundamental changes and whether we will continue with domestic, relatively softer and more expensive food, or whether GM food will be our new challenge, is demonstrated by time. We thank all the authors of the statement. We thank all the agricultural organisations who have done a commendable job in promoting Estonia's rural development and making the common agricultural policy fairer! To the decision-makers, however, we want a whole peasant's mind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U793	Thank you. Priit Sibula, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U794	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! Although last week's working week does not represent the best part of our working culture, because there were a lot more working methods and the use of strange techniques than a substantive debate, I am pleased to announce that the budget debate will continue. This time, then, over the future budget period of the European Union. On the issue under discussion, however, we can see that we can work together if we are seriously willing. On 10 October, while Kaia Iva, Chairman of the IRL Group, approached the representative of the other political groups and the Democratic Union of the Riigikogu with the draft statement prepared by the Riigikogu to express support for the Minister of Agriculture and the government in negotiations in Europe to achieve more equal conditions for our farmers, within five days there were enough amendments and an active debate continued in the Committee on Rural Affairs and elsewhere. I'm just happy about that. Today we have this text before us and we have the opportunity to adopt it unanimously, hopefully. This is not just a request to raise subsidies, but it is a common desire of all of us to have equal opportunities in an open economy and to treat different parties in the same way. It is our will that Estonian farmers be treated in the same way as their competitors elsewhere in Europe. I am pleased that we are behind this understanding together. Thank you very much, everyone. We hope that this will help us with budgetary negotiations in Europe and that unfair competition for us will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U795	Thank you. I would like to ask Kalvi Tõud, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U796	Thank you. Please ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U797	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The vice-chairman of my group told me to go to the remote and be specific, because it seems to him that the MPs want to delay the sitting here and make long speeches. The Social Democratic Party Group supports the draft statement of the Riigikogu that is currently pending today. There are very important points in this draft which provide both for equalisation of the single area payment and for greater flexibility in greening. But aside from these five points, we, as social democrats, also want to point out that we want full direct payments to be paid only to an active farmer who is jointly identified at European Union level. We believe that an active or active farmer should be defined through actual and active land use. The support for the so-called Eurohainists could be as high as the amount needed to ensure that this land is in good agricultural condition, i.e. as much as the amount it takes to mow this hay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U798	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Agriculture! It is great that you listen to agricultural issues in Parliament during your bedtime. As all previous speakers have nicely emphasised, today, in this Parliament, a rather strong statement has been prepared. For this, thank you to all those who contributed to this, to Members, their assistants and to the Ministry of Agriculture. We are pleased that on agricultural issues, everyone who has been sceptical in the past has spoken today and has perhaps not taken a very positive approach to these issues. I liked the statement made by a colleague here, but I don't think he's in the hall right now, who dared to admit that he's been skeptical about agricultural issues. Very good! For the Centre Party, agricultural issues have always been important in this Parliament and beyond, and have also been discussed in the context of the Rural Congress. Forming such a statement here in the Riigikogu should be a strong support for the government. I don't know how much government can use it these days, but let's hope so. I am also joking about the fact that when there was a farmers' conference, a respected member of the coalition threw out the idea of how Estonia is prepared to block the budget plan at the Council. Of course, it seemed to the auditorium as a very strong argument. I asked the Prime Minister about this, as you know, in Question Time today and I specified it. This was a nice populist statement for farmers. Perhaps they did have hope, but the Prime Minister, of course, confirmed that he would not make any such statement in the Council tomorrow. That's what I thought. Sometimes it's euphoria, maybe it's too emotional. Little has been said about the letter from the Commissioner for Agriculture to the presidents of the rural committees of the three Baltic countries. It came to us in June. If you go into this short and round text, you can also read that Estonia does not have much hope of reaching 90% of the European Union's average level of support. The 58.6% proposed by the Commission is on paper today and, unfortunately, quite real. But there's also talk of 75% and 77%. True, not entirely speaking, but I think that if tomorrow is the Council... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U799	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U800	... then we have answers to some of the questions here. Perhaps we will succeed, for example, in receiving equal subsidies with Romania. Tomorrow is also an interesting day in this sense that tomorrow our tractor should arrive in Brussels. This is our farmers' first stronger action in Brussels. If this tractor gets there, how's it gonna be accepted? As the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs promised, our paper will be translated in Brussels tomorrow morning. It would be interesting to know how it will be accepted there. Parliament has worked hard to make it easier for the government to fight for Estonia's positions, led by the Prime Minister and, of course, the Minister of Agriculture. As far as German support is concerned, the Minister himself knows best what agreements he has had with the German Minister or with a representative of another European Union country. As far as I know, the net contributors receiving the average subsidy from the European Union, including Germany, have been quite vague about Estonia's agricultural subsidies, even though they have been aware of our problem, and have not rushed to offer more to Estonian farmers at the expense of their subsidies. That's why these statements from this remote seem premature. Maybe we just don't know everything that's been agreed upon. However, if it is the case that we have already been offered something at the expense of Germany, it is, of course, only to be welcomed. As far as the europarlamento is concerned, of course, we hope that this Parliament will continue to understand the request of the Baltic States and will later support it. It has also been confirmed that all the groups already support this statement, but we do not know exactly that. Of course, the Centre Party Group supports the adoption of this statement today in the Riigikogu. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U801	Thank you, good waitress, for such a catchy presentation. I now request Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture of the Riigikogu speech chair in the round of negotiations!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U802	I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U803	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U804	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Domestic agriculture is a great asset. In Estonia, agriculture has been an important industry throughout the ages, the designer of our landscape and the guarantor of the people's survival in difficult times. The farmer's greatest wealth is the land. 'The agricultural land area has steadily increased in recent years,' was already written in 1939 in the statistical yearbook "Estonian Agriculture', but we can say the same for the last few years. In 2004, direct payments to 818000 hectares of agricultural land were applied for, compared to 911000 hectares in 2012. We have more potential than that. The increase in milk production and productivity is faster after regaining independence, positive developments are taking place in the meat sector and in cereal farming. The reasons for such developments are better technology, the growing awareness of farmers, the slowly evolving joint action, but certainly also the European Union's subsidies. In 2004, a total of 44.3 million euros of direct payments and additional direct payments were paid in Estonia, but 116.4 million euros last year. Agriculture is more than any other industry affected by a number of natural and man-made risks. The depletion of water and soil resources, the increasing number of droughts and floods and the constant growth of the world's population have a direct impact on Estonia as well. The rise in the prices of cereals on the world market as a result of droughts this year quickly reached Estonia as well. This shows that the existence of domestic agriculture is invaluable in order to guarantee food security. Competitive agriculture is the best guarantee of food security. This requires a level playing field. The final version of the negotiating document for the new financial period of the European Union states: 'In the case of a more equal distribution of direct payments between Member States, account shall be taken of the still existing differences in wage levels, purchasing power, output in the agricultural sector and input prices. ' It is unclear how these indicators are taken into account and how it is possible that, given them, direct payments in countries with similar levels of wages and input prices differ so much. Lower wages are also the consequence of lower direct payments. Empowering income and standard of living differences with different direct payments cannot be an objective of the common agricultural policy. Estonia does not want more subsidies, but more equal opportunities in the European Union's internal market. However, Estonia's land relations after the land reform and the large share of farmers' leases remain a serious problem also after the equality of direct payments. It is also necessary to find the objectives of today's circumstances and the content supporting sustainable agriculture on the outdated foundations of direct payments. It is necessary to clarify whether decoupled direct payments are aimed at supporting landowners, compensating farmers for loss of income, greener agriculture, a more stable safety net, creating a public good, combating climate change, socio-economic support for family farms, increasing the investment capacity of large producers, lower consumer prices, creating advantages for current farmers through payment entitlements, or all of these objectives at once. If we do not find answers to these questions, it would be more appropriate to abolish direct payments. Under unequal conditions, the cost of the survival of Estonian agriculture has been lower wages, more work, rapid concentration of production and industrial change, which have led to the difficult situation of family farms. In addition to efficient large-scale production, we also need small-scale farming farms that preserve land settlements and landscapes and diversify agricultural production. According to the latest agricultural census, there were 19613 agricultural holdings in Estonia in 2010, 5% of which accounted for three quarters of the total agricultural production in the country. Estonian farmers must be acknowledged that they are able to develop and even compete with the best in Europe. Estonian food supply and export production and the introduction of the most modern technology will be largely borne by large producers in the near future. But the development of Estonia, where small ones become bigger or stop and large ones buy foreign capital, does not meet our national interests. The more we are masters-owners in our own country, the greater the prerequisites for successful rural development. Agriculture is still the most national economic sector in Estonia. In implementing the common agricultural policy and the rural development plan for the next budgetary period, we must ask ourselves: firstly, where there is a balance between ever more industrialised and economically efficient large production and traditional family farms, secondly, how can food production and the more targeted use of land resources be maintained as an agricultural policy objective? These are our most important national agricultural policy decisions. Today, we are not talking about the need to support our agriculture, not because it is an underdeveloped and uncertain economic area with no vision for the future. On the contrary, agriculture in Estonia today is a highly innovative, rapidly developing export-able area. As shown by the study of growth areas under the Development Fund, agriculture is one of the so-called "growing areas" around the world. The Riigikogu has prepared a statement that is a message of symbolic significance to Brussels and other Member States. The European Union's common agricultural policy needs changes and must embrace the enlargement of the European Union in 2004. The two-speed common agricultural policy does not strengthen the unity of the European Union or the competitiveness of agriculture. I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu for the initiative, attention and support you give to Estonian agriculture with today's statement! This is a recognition of the progress made by the agricultural sector in recent years, but also a message to the Estonian public that agriculture has become one of the priorities of the Estonian state. I hope that, in cooperation with the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic and the representative organisations of farmers, we will achieve a common agricultural policy that is fairer for Estonia and more useful for the European Union as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U805	Minister, thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the Steering Committee is that a final vote is also required at first reading of the draft statement. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U806	Thank you, Mr President. Before the vote, a ten-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U807	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U808	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are at the final vote on Bill 306. I will put to the final vote draft statement 306. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour and no one opposed it. Draft 306 of the Riigikogu statement on "Estonian Agriculture and the Reform of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union" submitted by members of the Riigikogu has been adopted as a statement. [[Whistle, applause, yeah.]] The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U809	We will move on to the fourth item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U810	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting of 16 October, 8 November and 12 November in preparation for the second reading of 268. During the meeting on 16 October, lecturers at the Tallinn School of Health and Health, Andrus Lipand, presented an overview of the views on determining the size of excise duties on alcohol when considering the health aspect of the population. The amendments were discussed on 8 November. Two amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu and one from the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself. We also discussed the issue of tax labelling of non-taxed alcohol as a letter from alcohol producers and an additional point. As I said, two proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu to amend the bill, and a proposal from the Finance Committee was also prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The amendments tabled by the members of the Riigikogu were rejected by 2 votes in favour and 6 against, and the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was supported by consensus by the Commission. On 12 November, the Commission discussed the tax labelling of alcohol subject to excise duty and subject to tax in the framework of the procedure for the prevention of possible tax fraud and for better monitoring. The Commission considered that further discussion on this issue could be pursued if necessary. The third reading period was changed at the meeting on 15 November. The Commission decided to put a draft on the agenda for the 268 plenary sessions first by 14 November, but this has been postponed to date. The Commission also proposed that the second reading be stopped and, when the second reading is closed, that the third reading should be made on 21 November; these were also consensual decisions. This will inevitably be delayed. Thank you for your attention. But I see there are questions, and I'm ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U811	Thank you, dear waitress. There really are some questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U812	Dear waitress, When it comes to alcohol excise, there are two common practices in the world. One is simply an improvement in the budget, i.e. the excise duty is used purely to obtain additional revenue. The second practice is based in some way on the objective of compensating for the damage caused by alcohol consumption, and in this case there are rather complicated rules on how to determine excise duty. In my speech, I will talk more about this later, but please tell me when the government proposes to introduce new excise duties, whether it is based on the first or the second objective. Is there simply a desire to increase tax revenue or in any way to compensate for the damage caused by alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U813	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U814	Both of you! Both.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U815	I hope to get a slightly longer answer to the next question. It is clear that a single decision on such a proposal can, of course, all be in favour. But remember that very often, even year after year, alcohol excise has been raised. As a financial specialist, I'm sure you can tell me how much and in what years this excise duty has been raised. That would be really interesting to know. Unfortunately, I can't remember all these times, but you might know. And the other part of the question also: how much do you think the increase in alcohol duty has reduced alcohol consumption? Do you have any figures at your disposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U816	We listened to a rather interesting presentation by Mr Lipand in the Commission. He stopped a little bit on these problems, too. There's a difference of opinion. Healthcare professionals say that the increase in excise duty could be stronger and faster, while we need to take into account the threat of the secret market. The case of tobacco excise is known to be that instead of the 10% previously planned, there is now a plan to increase by 6%. A reasonable balance must be found here. If you ask me, as a person who has been a little involved in this area, I would argue that, on the one hand, the objective of limiting alcohol consumption has been taken into account as much as possible, but, on the other hand, the increase in alcohol duty should not be so vigorous that we are creating a pleasant situation for smugglers to do their illegal business. All these aspects must be taken into account. I understand that you do not want to listen to the Minister of Finance, as Mr Stalnukhin said here earlier, but we have a pretty interesting overview of Marek Uusküla, who is a very long-standing excise specialist, as well as Heidi Vessel. It's not always such a one-dimensional and simple theme that we keep raising. We still need to anticipate what situations excise duties may lead to. When we talk about the perspective of entrepreneurs, alcohol production is still an industry that employs many people. From the perspective of producers, it is very important that excise policy is predictable. With this draft, we will provide policy orientations in advance for years. I repeat: this is particularly important from the perspective of the producers. But do you really want me to start counting dates for you? I can do it later. I don't have them at hand right now. But the answer was a little longer, as you requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U817	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U818	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like a longer answer. It seemed to me that you, the former best finance minister in the world, were not sincere enough to answer the previous questioner. It's nice to talk about the harmfulness of alcohol, but at the same time you're explaining that if we raise too much, there'll be a wider secret market and people will still drink just as much. I mean, you don't have that drinking on your heart! And now, if you look at the draft explanatory memorandum, in the first row, the goal is to fill the state budget by selling alcohol. I have a question for you: can you prove to me that your party and the entire government coalition really have a sincere desire to increase excise duties on alcohol only in order to save people's health?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U819	I don't think your question is sincere. If you really had a problem, the representatives of your group would have taken part in the four meetings of the Commission in which we addressed these issues. But your group's representative, Kadri Simson, was absent from three of these four sessions. So I do not think you have any interest in dealing with the substance of this issue. I understand you don't like the Minister of Finance, but Mr. Lipand is a lecturer at a health institution and his thorough presentation could have been of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U820	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U821	Good waitress! I've been distracted by this kind of bill before, and now here too. If we take fermented beverages and wine with an alcoholic strength of up to 6% vol., the rate of excise duty shall be EUR 34,97 per hectolitre. Does it have any substantive justification, or is it a necessity that we set the amount of EUR 34.97? Why not round 35? Would that make 3 cents a mess? And all the other rates are, for example, 6.93 euros and not 7 euros. Why? It seems to me that it would be more accurate if these numbers were a little rounder. Is there any reason why they have to be determined with tens or a hundredths of euro precision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U822	Here we have to look at how they are formed and what the proportions are. In principle, there are two types of rates: absolute alcohol per % vol. and per litre. This logic of rates is the result of the corresponding European Union directive, which we must respect. And they're different kinds of alcohol. In the case of fermented alcohol, the logic of excise duty is different from that of absolute alcohol. But you could have proposed a correction to set a different rate and also to justify it. As far as I know, you have not tabled any amendments to this draft. There is no need to mention the source of cover here, because this change would increase the revenue of the budget rather than reduce it, like other proposals to change your budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U823	Good fellows! Honourable waitress! I'm sorry, but I'm taking a technical break on behalf of the manager for two minutes. The hearing will be resumed in two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U824	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. I ask again to return to the Riigikogu Chair Aivar Sõerdi, we will proceed with the processing of Bill 268. We're at the round of questions. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U825	Honourable waitress! Here, you noted that this excise duty on alcohol and tobacco is at risk of overturning and people's eyes turning to an active secret market, but whether the Commission was discussing how we can find out where this border runs, how much excise duty can be increased. Is that where the secret market starts to take over the line? Is that how it's going to be tested and misguided?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U826	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U827	This question was discussed in the Commission before the first reading. You're late with your questions, they're more about the principles of the bill. But that was the question, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that they have done quite serious analyses and that they have also taken into account proposals from tax authorities, for example. There's been no real misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U828	Honourable waitress! If I understand correctly, you may be congratulated today on your birthday, and I hope that my question will not spoil your good mood. To make it easier to answer: the question is about the last part of the explanatory memorandum. You will discuss possible harmonisation of excise rates for lean and strong alcohol in the spring. Tell me, please, is this going to happen before the budget is drawn up or later? Is there not such a situation as this year that the budget is already in place, the amounts are already in place, but there is not yet a basic draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U829	First of all, thank you for your congratulations. But if you look at the amendment proposed by the sots, that is what this desire for harmonisation seems to be. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. It is not possible to harmonise in this way. Taking the proposal into account would have meant that, for example, excise duty on beer would not have increased by 5%, as proposed in the government bill, but by 33% per year. By 2016, the price of beer would have increased by 50%. I'm sure that wouldn't make sense. So I don't think this way can go any further. The current proportion between strong and lean alcohol is quite reasonable and there is no reason to make any major changes to it. Marje Josing gave an interesting overview of the survey they carried out, which revealed the fact that the share of strong alcohol consumption in Estonia is relatively high compared to Finns and Swedes. Although Finns are also considered to be consumers of large vodka, figures show that Finns drink more wine and beer, we drink more vodka. And that is what we want to regulate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U830	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U831	Good waitress! Congratulations on your birthday, too, for me. Basically, I agree with the Government of the Republic's proposal to increase excise duties on alcohol. That's for two reasons. I'm sure raising alcohol duty will help limit drinking. This 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol, which on average sold per person in 2011, is obviously too much. Secondly, it is a source of cover for the state budget and the availability of cover for the state budget is very important. My question, however, continues the question of Lauri Laas, where it is still the limit of balance. Where do you think alcohol duty could be raised? Where does this measure limit alcohol consumption, and where can there be a problem that underdogs begin to grow and are consumed too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U832	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U833	Perhaps an increase of 5% will ensure an optimal balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U834	Good waitress! You also mentioned changes in the tax labelling of alcohol. Do these tax labels also entail high costs for alcohol producers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U835	You didn't quite get it right, but I talked about it in just one sentence. Indeed, such a side issue has been included in our debate. It doesn't relate to this bill, but we did discuss it. We are talking about tax labelling of alcohol sold on ships and aircraft. Currently, alcohol is allowed to be sold on ships and aircraft without a tax mark. The representative of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance assured us that there is actually no problem from the point of view of tax fraud. However, the Member of the Commission who raised this issue to us thought that since the alcohol sold in ships is subject to excise duty and without excise duty, depending on whether the ship leaves the territory of the European Union, how to distinguish them. In fact, this system is currently in operation and the Ministry of Finance considers that there is no reason to add additional tax labelling burden to businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U836	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U837	Good waitress! You said that there are two reasons for raising excise duties: one serves the health interests and the other serves the purpose of fulfilling the Treasury. What methodology is used to calculate how much human health can improve, for example, due to an increase in alcohol duty of 5%? And doesn't the reverse process begin? Perhaps more is passed on to secret alcohol and even cheaper and poorer drinks that can make people's health worse. After all, most of the health problems associated with alcohol are the ones that call an ambulance, which is paid out of the state budget. Doesn't that eat up the 5% increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U838	Excise duty is not the only measure to regulate the situation. In fact, in my opinion, the problem is that we have too much alcohol available. In the city of Tallinn, where I often have to stay because of my duties, I think there are too many shops where alcohol is sold. I also carry statistics: strong alcohol is sold in 2609 stores in Estonia, while in Finland there are 418 such shops in Sweden. For thousands of people, we have 195 liquor shops, 6 in Finland and 4 in Sweden. Maybe we should start solving this problem from this end. I think that a lot of these 2609 shops are located in Tallinn, but I have not heard that Tallinn has done anything to improve the situation. There are a lot of aspects here. We are not just dealing with the big problem with excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U839	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U840	Dear waitress, Happy birthday! I wish that one day you would understand that we are all equal in this Chamber. Even the fact that we have three types of mandate should not allow comments to be made to others. We ourselves choose where it is more important to be one day or another, and we decide whether or not to propose amendments. In this Chamber, questions may be answered and may not be answered, but there should be no reproof of this right. But here's my question. I know that this change will result in an increase of EUR 7 million next year, but what changes could be made to the health condition of the population as a result of this change? Has such an analysis been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U841	I thank you for your congratulations and wish you every success in your work. I had to hear your reprimand right now, so I guess I deserve it. I'm trying to figure it out as far as I can! In general, it is obvious that if we continue to grow, and because of sound economic and budgetary policies, this perspective exists, people's income will also grow. At the same time, if the price of a product or service remains the same, availability will improve. Surely the increase in excise duty will have an impact on availability. I don't think you're gonna argue with that. If you think the excise duty should increase by 3% or 10%, then propose and try to justify it. The source of the cover does not arise in this case; it is an increase in revenue. But I understand you didn't propose any improvements to the second reading. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U842	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U843	Dear waitress, First of all, congratulations on your birthday! I think it will be remembered to you for a long time that you will answer the opposition's spiteful questions on your birthday at this hour of night. In my opinion, the increase in alcohol duty is certainly more justified than, for example, the increase in the price of fuel or electricity. I believe that alcohol duty could be increased, but in the future, if it did not exceed the critical limit from which we are beginning to grow more and more in the secret market. Can you tell us what alcohol prices we have compared to the prices prevailing on the Latvian, Lithuanian and Russian markets? These countries are the countries most affected by our secret market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U844	Your comparison with the price of electricity is not appropriate. It is not known to increase taxes on electricity, but excise duties on alcohol. We had this issue discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the first reading. I need to look up the first-reading materials again, but you have rightly referred to the problem. Russia is planning a quite vigorous increase in excise duty, and Latvia is also adjusting its excise policy, but the difference is still large enough. So we have a risk of smuggling and border trade. With regard to Latvia, perhaps the tobacco problem is just as serious. In any case, we must take this context into account. However, if we compare the rates of excise duty in Finland to ours, then the difference is again in the opposite direction. This is the specific nature of the excise policy. The situation of neighbouring countries must be taken into account. We discussed a proposal for an amendment that would have increased excise duty on beer by 33%. The author of the proposal was asked whether you had analysed what this proposal would entail. This analysis had not been carried out by the proposer. That was one reason why we could not support the proposal. The Commission was under the impression that this 33% increase in beer excise duty was not well thought out enough, and the analysis was not behind it. The 5% increase proposed by the government and the reasons behind it gave the Commission greater assurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U845	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U846	Dear waitress, Mr Sõerd, for my happy birthday too! I have two questions. This may not be the case, but first of all, the explanatory memorandum states that raising alcohol duty may reduce alcohol consumption. Why the vague formulation? It seems as if written down, by the way, has not been sought for a proper reasoning. Secondly, if the price of alcohol rises again, the problem arises that we have a border with Latvia, isn't there a risk that people are going to drink in Latvia? Is the liquor much cheaper? Do you have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U847	There were two questions. We discussed this subject before the first reading, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs does not have precise data from Latvia. I have already referred to the problem of border trade; it exists. But rather there is a bigger problem with Russia, the rates there are more different than ours. However, if you are interested, it is likely that these exact prices will be obtained, as well as information on the level of excise duty specifically in Latvia this year, which is the year next. This information can certainly be obtained for you. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, I've got a whole table, and I can give it to you as soon as you're interested. It's all in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U848	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U849	Good delivery, could you pass on that chart?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U850	Here is Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Russia everything is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U851	Take this to Marika Tuus-Laul, please! Shall we go on with this answer, or shall we take the next question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U852	Yeah, I think it's a little bit much to demand that I start reading this table out of my head. Let's take the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U853	Good waitress! My regards for my birthday too! When I looked at your resume to see if it was really your birthday, I saw that you were a sports enthusiast. That is why I understand that you are such a fighter against alcohol and tobacco and you want to punish those who are sinners a little bit, even through excise duty. But I'm interested in the second question. How does the increase in the price of fuel and electricity, which comes immediately, affect the rise in other prices? You are a well-known finance specialist and you need to cover this subject more widely. Does this affect the prices of consumer goods and foodstuffs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U854	You probably know that very well yourself. We were discussing electric excises here. The share of electricity excise duty in electricity prices is currently around 4%, but since it is a fixed rate, the share will decrease as energy prices rise. It is estimated that the share of electricity excise duty in the price will decrease to 2 to 3%. But I'm sorry, that's not what this is about today. I will be mentioned behind my back as I go further on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U855	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U856	Honourable performer! You mentioned earlier that for incomprehensible reasons, more drinks are being drunk in Finland. I'll explain to you why. The reason is that we have lean alcohol, such as beer, very expensive compared to vodka, and in Finland these drinks are much cheaper than vodka. That's where I'm gonna ask. It seems to me that today we are discussing the draft of the Social Affairs Committee, and everyone is talking about a healthy lifestyle. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is still not discussing maintaining human health as much as budget implementation. Please prove that your main objective is not to increase budget revenue by increasing excise duty, but to take care of human health. It doesn't feel that way to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U857	I'm not gonna prove anything to you here that you think I should prove. On the contrary, the Commission has dealt with this complex issue very seriously and from a number of points of view. It is a terrible pity that your group's representatives did not take part in these discussions. Kadri Simson was absent from three of the four debates. So, what real interest can you have? I don't think you have any interest in this subject. In fact, we did even address the Committee on Social Affairs, we also asked them for an opinion in order not only to remain stuck in the financial approach. Indeed, this problem is not only fiscal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U858	A procedural question, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U859	A good fellow official, the possibility of a rejoinder is a round of negotiations, not a round of questions. Right now, you can ask. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U860	Since Aivar Sõerd went on fire and named my name, I want to...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U861	Dear waitress, I agree that reducing alcohol consumption depends on many components. I do not think that the criticism of Tallinn was quite appropriate, because our very liberal policy does not give the local government much opportunity to limit it. I remember, in the previous composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs, there was a debate on the draft alcohol, where the opposition proposed to ban alcohol at petrol stations, but due to the heavy pressure of the coalition, this was disregarded. So the reason why there are so many liquor stores should be looked at in legislation. But the question is this: did the Commission discuss how many percent this 5% increase in excise duty could reduce alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U862	I understand that the criticism of Tallinn is painful for you, but look, the problem is serious. 2600 stores in Estonia and 348 stores in Finland. this is a problem. I am referring to the problem, do not take this Tallinn issue so painfully. But the subject you mentioned was dealt with in the Commission. Unfortunately, as a representative of the Commission, I cannot offer you a specific bill. However, in any case, we felt that the 5% increase in excise duty rates was justified by all excise duties. Finland was named here. In fact, Finland is currently planning to increase excise duties on beer and wine at a slightly faster rate than strong alcohol. I am not going to mention the exact figures of how much this increase in excise duty specifically affects people's behaviour, how much it affects the percentage of the secret market, etc. There are, in fact, very different opinions on this. Mr Lipand made a very interesting report, and the whole point of his story was that he tried to prove that the damage caused by overdrinking is, in fact, greater than the country's tax gain back.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U863	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U864	Dear waitress, I was looking at the schedule for raising alcohol duty. I must state that there have been no times when the rate of excise duty went down, and the difference between setting the new rate has been on average one year. The Government of the Republic has already decided in September that excise duties on alcohol will be increased at least until 2016 and that the tax revenue from it will almost double each year. My question is what you think it has to do with what it has to do with. This is the feeling that we can talk today about the level of the economy until 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U865	The main reason for this is to give certainty to those paying this excise duty and to producers whose economic activity is concerned that alcohol policy is predictable. When excise increases are known, it will be easier for the company to plan its own economic activity. Predictability of tax policy and planning over time is very important. You offered progressive income tax in the proposals for budget improvements. But imagine that the progressive income tax would have been adopted in December, as proposed by you. There is no bill, there are no declaration forms, no one knows what it means at all, you have no subtle idea of how to apply progressive income tax. Now that is an approach that should not exist in tax policy. But if the country with this draft is going to give a perspective here for several years, I think that makes a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U866	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U867	Honourable waitress! In your reply, you concerned the areas involved in raising this excise duty, whether or not. The threat of smuggling, on the one hand, and people's health, on the other. I had a question about where else this might have been. I will give you an example of an area that you know very well. It's hotel business. A few years ago, when there was such a sharp increase in excise duty, the visitation declined immediately. Later, it stabilized, but for a while, the turnover was falling. Is that accounted for? This is not an insignificant area for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U868	It was in our discussion, but before the first reading, we discussed the principles of the bill. But, of course, you are on the right track in the sense that, of course, it affects hotel fillings, at all tourism. And above all, it affects those tourists whose arrival is one of the goals of cheaper entertainment, cheaper alcohol, cheaper hotels. But I wouldn't take it so dramaticly. Finland is also known to increase excise duty, so in fact, their excise duty may even move faster. But yes, before the first reading, we discussed this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U869	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U870	Good waitress! I, too, think more of it, like my colleague, Kalev Kallo, that Tallinn is more of a pioneer in this matter. Recalling the ban on the sale of alcohol at night, which started in Tallinn, this ban was later implemented throughout the country. But much has also been said about the fact that excise duty is one of the possible measures to reduce alcohol consumption, in fact, excessive consumption. I believe that this issue should be addressed in a more complex way. You probably also discussed in the Commission what other options are available to reduce alcohol consumption, whether it be a restriction on advertising, a restriction on the number of outlets or a limit on sales time. What, in your opinion, is the most effective measure and when could the government coalition come up with a complex package that could be discussed more widely?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U871	Yes, this broader approach is on the agenda, as far as I know, and the relevant activities are under development. We did not specifically discuss this, because the Commission had a task to do, but I fully agree that the problem needs to be analysed more broadly and dealt with in a comprehensive action plan. Excise policy is a very important measure, but the problem is very multifaceted and a complex action plan is needed to reduce harmful effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U872	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U873	Dear waitress, According to the current bill, there is a 5% increase in alcohol excise duty each year. Have you ever had a story about the ceiling? How long should the excise be up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U874	There's no ceiling! As long as the money is printed and the global inflation is functioning, the rates of excise duty must also be adjusted at least at the rate of inflation. One argument for raising these excise duties is that inflation currently leads to higher prices. Alcohol excise duties shall be increased at least in line with inflation. This is a pan-European practice, also in other countries. But where's the top line, I don't know. The money's printed, the top line runs out of the way all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U875	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U876	Good waitress, my congratulations on your birthday! I sincerely wish you good health and determination and peace of heart! My question is as follows. You said that, as excise duties rise, the availability of alcohol will certainly fall somewhat. At the same time, access to a serious drunk has never been a problem. Of course, the secret market isn't gonna grow, but it's gonna grow by 5% or 10%. It has certainly been calculated how much the volume of the secret market is increasing, too, these figures are known. But has it been calculated how much the costs that the country has to make in order to suppress the increase in the volume of the secret market and to smooth out their consequences? Is this amount in any way correlated with the percentage increase in excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U877	I think these costs will fit within the budget of the Tax and Customs Board if we still adopt the budget, but I hope we will. Of course, it's not just the Tax and Customs Board who makes it here. He's the first violin player, but it's also important to cooperate with the Police and Border Guard Board. Perhaps in the future we should think about improving camera surveillance in those sections of the border where control is less frequent. Perhaps alcohol and tobacco products cross the border not through official border crossing points, but along forest roads. Well, they still find ways to bring in cheaper taxed alcohol. But I don't think it's too much to worry about. Our authorities have money in the budget to carry out their duties in collecting excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U878	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U879	Good waitress! Is it logical that the lower price of alcohol could increase the state budget more than the high price that would be earned because of turnover and not because of the high price? And the other part of the question: could there not be a common excise policy in the European Union in order to avoid such transnational competition? This is an area where there should not really be competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U880	There were several questions again. The minimum rates, I know, have been agreed in the European Union, but often these agreements have not come easily. I myself have been involved in disputes where more beer consuming land, such as the Czech Republic, which is fighting against the minimum rate of excise duty on beer, and, on the other hand, countries where more wine is loved. Beer countries say, please, but then we'll put the price of wine on the excise duty. This debate has been very sharp, and I think it is still happening between the finance ministers of the European Union. But when it comes to your question of whether it would be right to cut excise duty and thus increase turnover and get even more money into the state budget, it does not make sense with regard to the health aspect. This is not the way a country that thinks about the health of its people should behave.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U881	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U882	Good waitress, first of all, congratulations! But it's work to do. The initiative is good. I'd like to ask you that. Mr Sõerd, what is the reason for the government's desire to raise alcohol duty so high? I received a doctoral thesis by Indrek Saare, doctoral student of the University of Tartu, who received the research award from Eesti Pank, in which he recommends raising alcohol excise duties up to three times on the basis of scientific arguments. Do you and I read the views of the various scientists and are therefore unable to understand the matter in exactly the same way, or is there really no need to support research work from the scarce budget of our country, because no one is interested in their content anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U883	But I explained that this is exactly what Mr Lipand, whom we invited to the Commission, told us that not only this increase in excise duty, but the earlier ones could have been more powerful. At the same time, scientists really have different opinions. However, alcohol producers also sent us a letter that is available on the Riigikogu website. They offered a 3% increase in excise duty. Without going into very specific analyses, I think that raising it at a 3% step is obviously a little bit short. 10%, on the other hand, is slightly risky given the risk of a secret market. 5% seemed reasonable after we had heard the explanations from the Ministry of Finance, but not to all the members of the Commission. It was also proposed to increase excise duty on beer by 33% per year. However, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U884	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U885	Mr Sõerd, you mentioned that health professionals felt that the increase in alcohol duty could have been stronger. Marje Josing of the Conjuncture Institute has also said that the price of beer has become increasingly cheaper than the average wage. At the same time, when we discussed this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a member of the government association told Minister Jürgen Ligi that, at least from the point of view of the excise duty on beer, the Minister of Finance wears the hat of A.Le Coq in his head. Perhaps the interests of alcohol producers are being heard more than those of other operators that are also affected by this tax increase? You belong to the same party as Jürgen Ligi. Can you refute the argument that this bill clearly represents the interests of alcohol producers or of a brewery?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U886	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U887	You're obviously lost. From past experience, I know that you have an excuse for going personal like this, but you have been accused of doing so before! To put words in people's mouth that they have not once said. The producers' proposal was to increase 3% and also to change the deadlines for paying excise duty. The government is proposing 5% for all types of excise duty, which concerns wine, fermented beverages, strong alcohol, beer. I don't see anyone's preference here. I think you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U888	Dear waitress, First of all, my happy birthday! I apologise in advance, if you have already spoken about this subject on the way from the office to the hall, there may be some questions that you may not hear. But when I listened to your very interesting answers in the study, I wanted to ask you a question as to how Estonia, with its increase in excise duty, appears among other countries of the European Union. What are the excise duties imposed in other EU countries on both strong and thinner alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U889	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U890	I ran around the hall with a table showing the data from our neighbouring countries. The general practice is that these rates are being tried to increase inflation, but there are countries that have taken a more aggressive way of raising them. In particular, these are the Nordic countries, Finland and Sweden, which have the highest rates of excise duty in the European Union. However, there are countries where excise duties are relatively low. Our current excise duty on beer is not the lowest, it is on a rather medium level, but the 33% increase proposed by your party is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U891	Good waitress! I have one question for you. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, Andrus Ansip, has stated that there is only one beer in Estonia, this is A.Le Coq. The rest he called beer-like drinks. How will these beer-like drinks be taxed: either the same way as beer, or should be subject to excise duty-like taxes on beer-like drinks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U892	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U893	I don't count such a thing out of this bill with the best of wishes. It's probably your fantasy back here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U894	Honourable waitress! When we discussed alcohol excise duties here last time it hasn't been too long, the representative of the Estonian Association of Alcohol Producers, Janek Kalvi, CEO of Liviko, said that raising alcohol excise duty came as a complete surprise to him and to all other alcohol producers, which had an impact on the back of the axe. Have alcohol producers been warned this time that they should not be surprised to read in the paper that alcohol excise duty is rising?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U895	Of course! Of course, the sooner the better, even several years in advance, can be announced. The current period of notice is reasonable, and that is why we are making an effort here at night to get this draft adopted as soon as possible by law. One thing is the law, the other is what has been said. The timing of the notice is reasonable, which has allowed economic operators to prepare for the change. I myself have heard from the business community that what is important for them is that policies and rates have now been put forward for several years. It is particularly important that the plans are known, not that they come in a year and start re-circulating the rates. The predictability of the tax system is important. In answering one question here, I explained that it is certainly not possible to approve graduate income tax with proposals for amendments to the Budget Act at the end of November or in December that is absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U896	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U897	In fact, VAT can be changed at one and a half weeks' notice. We are members of the European Union and NATO, our finances are in order, we have a man who has been called the best finance minister in Europe on the board, we have a stable tax system, because that is the request of the Reform Party, and for that we bow deeply to you. Unfortunately, the same law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity has been amended for the last time in March 2012, today we are changing it again. Why are we doing this? Do you think this is a stable tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U898	This was again a long thought development, eventually followed by questions. I am pleased that today we have been able to prevent our tax system from being graduated, with one month's notice. It's a serious achievement, and it's worth sitting here 24 hours a day. Certainly no tax system is ideal; our tax system also needs to be changed from time to time. Yesterday I had the opportunity to attend the annual conference of the Estonian Association of Carriers. They also had quite serious complaints about our tax system. Not that it has to be made exponential, but they have other problems. The tax system is not ideal; it needs to be modernised and improved. But yes, the main thing is that it would be predictable and such sudden changes would still be known in advance. It's really important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U899	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U900	Dear Aivar Sõerd! I was wondering if I should respond to your personal appearance, but I came to the conclusion that if each of us were to answer you, it might remind me of some bullying at school. So let's leave you guys alone and talk about it. You said the tax system must be stable. I will review the process of amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity from the State's Official Journal. Do you know that since 2009 alone, it has been changed ten times? What is stable in the tax system if one law is amended 11 times in four years? What mistakes have been made in the past? Or has the same government not foreseen the need to change one, two, three, and ten things in this law? Are you calling this a stable tax administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U901	It's hard to accept your judgment. Perhaps there have also been times when urgent decisions have had to be made at short notice. Your complaint was about VAT. Yes, this complaint is understandable, of course, but to argue that we are in some way violating good practice with this specific legislation on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity is a somewhat overrated assessment. There's no way we can agree to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U902	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U903	Good waitress! You have spoken several times today about the levels of excise duties. I haven't quite figured out whether you want to create them or eliminate them, but in any case, you've talked about them many times. I'd like to come up with the content of the excise duties. If we look at another European approach to excise duties, as in the case of our taxes, excise duties have been directed elsewhere at some kind of specific activity, that is improving roads or health care. What's your aim this time? Do you want to improve our health care, meet doctors, or do you just want to fill the public budget holes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U904	I have already answered that question more than a few times. There are certainly different aspects to be taken into account here. There are different arguments: there is a fiscal argument, there is an argument for limiting harmful consumption patterns, there is a health argument, there is a secret market argument. Your colleague also raised the argument for the development of tourism. There's a lot of them. When we are discussing and deciding this here, we should take all these arguments into account, not just from a fiscal point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U905	Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U906	You are certainly familiar with a wide range of opinions on the basis of this same fiscal argument. The attempt to keep the state budget stable by means of such excise duties and other indirect taxes is rather dubious for the future. If we look at the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, the goal is to reduce consumption. As your financial specialist, is it not worried that when European subsidies are reduced, the future of our budget is relatively uncertain based solely on excise duties and other indirect taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U907	When we compare ourselves with other countries, the Estonian state collects its tax revenue quite well. Estonia collects income tax from both individuals and companies quite well compared to other countries, and TAXUD has made an overview of this. I have the data. If you're interested, I can show them to you. In fact, the greatest threat to the Estonian tax system is when it is turned into a ditch by making income tax progressive. It's particularly bad when it's done rashly. I am no longer surprised when we speak here in the Riigikogu that by making income tax progressive, we collect tens and hundreds of millions. I'm not sure about that. Perhaps it is because of this that we have to pay more, because tax revenues are decreasing. There are usually many exceptions, benefits, tax holes, deductions in the system of progressive income tax. What I see most of all is the danger that our tax system could be disrupted in this way. We have worked on proportional income tax since 1994. We were the first to introduce proportionate income tax, and Estonia has also had followers in the decades that followed. Our tax system has proven its vitality and when we can talk about tax competition, our system is completely competitive internationally.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U908	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U909	Dear waitress, I'll come back to 2016. I mean, it's great if we now have a plan to increase excise duty rates by 5%, even though the people who are manufacturing asked for 3% a year. I guess life settles these things. But on today's agenda, we have two questions relating to the Environmental Charges Act, and there was promised one, but now we're going to do another. I would like to ask you, who gives the guarantee, either the Prime Minister or the Government, that the stability of the tax system will be as it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U910	Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U911	We're having tax debates here that you don't really want to be a part of. But I would have liked to have seen your progressive tax bill at last. However, it has not been possible to discuss this, because either you have not had a wish or you have not been able to imagine how to apply progressive income tax. We are working to prevent things that would completely turn our tax system upside down. That's why we're having these debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U912	Good waitress! My heart will come and my sincere congratulations to you! Lots of strength, lots of health and good luck! I promise you, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, that we will present you today with a proper gift in the form of the progressive tax bill that we have introduced in the Riigikogu over the last few years. Then you'll see what our ideas are. I see you have a desire to come along with the idea and help us improve the progressive income tax bill. And what can be nicer if two liberal parties are trying to improve the tax system? However, I will come back to this bill, namely the question of my benchmate, who stated that this law had been amended ten times since 2009. Please, tell me what these reasons have been!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U913	Thank you. There are different reasons. For example, in 2005, when we were in government with your party, we introduced alcohol tax stamps. This was the kind of measure on which we have now passed seven years afterwards, we can say that this was a very correct step, which helped to collect alcohol excise duties much better. Or we could take the fuel. Here were the issues of guarantees, the measures that were implemented. Again, the state won tens of millions of euros of untaxed income. But if you do this step-by-step tax bill, I suggest you make a separate bill. Do not change the current proportionate income tax system. It's just not possible. I suggest you make a whole new bill, you said you wanted my advice. It is not possible to reconcile progressive income tax with a proportionate tax system. It's not really going to work. Last time, you submitted a draft, which is also the only draft that you have tabled, which was just like this: it was a wish to amend one of the provisions of the current proportionate tax system. This is not really feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U914	Thank you very much. Please, Vladimir Velman, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U915	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear waitress, You're the one who took us away from the subject. As you can see, there are two red towels that upset you. One is Tallinn and the other is progressive income tax, and behind both is the Estonian Central Party. Perhaps then we would try and give Tallinn the opportunity to introduce progressive income tax and try it out and see what comes out of it? Or when we talk about the subject of this draft, perhaps Tallinn would have the opportunity to introduce a higher excise duty on alcohol itself or something like that? Perhaps to give more freedom to local authorities to decide on these issues. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U916	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U917	That'd be great! I couldn't help but think about Tallinn's sales tax and Tallinn's progressive income tax. That would be a serious performance! I do not know what has become of this sales tax, how much Tallinn will pay back. You probably won't get out of this mess very cheap, but I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U918	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have to admit, I understand you in a completely different way than Vladimir Velman. It seems to me that you actually support this graduated income tax rather as if, and even urge the opposition to come out with this draft. I see a sincere desire to contribute, and I began to think that perhaps there should be a broad-based committee, to which the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs would also be invited. But now I'm coming back to the bill we're discussing right now. I have listened to this debate from the beginning. Are there any aspects on which it has not been possible to ask the floor, but what you discussed in the Commission within the framework of this draft and what needs to be clarified here? Is there anything else to mention about this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U919	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U920	As far as the tiered income tax committee is concerned, this must be done in a hurry, because you wanted to put it into effect from 1 January. The period for calculating income tax shall be the calendar year. The budget will be adopted by 1 January, then the graduated income tax will also have to apply from that time. It's a little busy with the Commission. But what would I add about this bill? First of all, I believe that it is a high plus that excise duty rates have been given in advance for several years. This will make our economic environment stable and give producers a guarantee of security to anyone who delivers here in Estonia, such as tourism entrepreneurs. There have been differing views as to whether 5% is right, but the debate today has also given me even more certainty that 5% is the desired medium, even though opinions have been heard from the hall in one direction and the other. But now, at the end of the debate, I have deepened my conviction that it is right to increase excise duty so much in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U921	Good colleague! I am listening to your comments and I understand that in your answers you have gone far enough from the approach of today's draft. You have tried patiently and clearly, even you could say, as could be said, to explain to young children what the dangers lie in graduated income tax and, at all, in the tax system, when it is very abruptly changed. I have a question for you. How do you feel if your response has lasted for two hours or if today's talk has sounded to deaf ears? Please state your opinion to the end!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U922	Thank you very much, Aivar Sõerd! No further questions for you. Happy birthday to me and have a happy birthday! [[Let's hear it.]] You see, not every performer deserves that kind of applause, so it was worth performing. We're going to negotiate. I'm opening negotiations. Heimar Leng's speech chair first, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U923	When we started this round of questions, I really got that impression, but right now I think it worked. I benefited from this, and I believe that the questioners also received some information from my really short answers on which to base their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U924	You have 25 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U925	Ladies and gentlemen, who are we in this Chamber? A very pleasant presentation was made by the best European finance minister. I also really think that the benefits were two-sided. We have come to good ideas, for example, that Tallinn could try progressive income tax separately from Estonia. And why not? At the same time, it seems to me that Mr Sõerd is afraid for some reason of this ATM, the progressive income tax like the old devil's lightning. But if he was the Minister of Finance of the People's Union, I remember it wasn't that much of a fear. That's, that's not important right now. But this model of Tallinn, Mr Sõerd, could be tried, because Tallinn is doing well. The Centre Party is in power in Tallinn and see how high the standard of living is for the people here! Compare it to South Estonia, where the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance are in power! What a low standard of living that people have! So we can complement each other very well. If you come to this excise law, it's really messy. It's like we've had more of a social committee meeting, because for two hours we've been talking mainly about the harmful effects of alcohol on human body and mind. In that sense, it's a great thing to do. When I read the draft explanatory memorandum, it is quite good to know that the Commission discussed the draft three times after the second reading. It is written here that the Commission was presented by Andrus Lipand, a lecturer at Tallinn Health College, who believes that alcohol is too available in Estonia, excise increases have been insufficient and excise duties on soft alcoholic beverages could rise to the same level as those on spirits. The speaker drew attention to mild alcoholic beverages spread among young people. Personally, I take a different view. Mr Sõerd mentioned in his report that, strangely, in Finland, there are considerably fewer strong alcohol and more light drinks. Mr. Sõerd, I looked at your chart and I found the reason. Indeed, Finns drink more light drinks and do not get drunk as much as we drink heavy vodka here. We argued where this excise duty is higher, and, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that Estonia currently has 5.70 beer excise duty, 3.08 in Latvia, 2.46 in Lithuania and 4. That explains why more drinks are drunk elsewhere than we do and do not fall into such heavy drinking. I think that there is no point in us raising excise duty on lighter drinks in the future, leaving them cheaper and more accessible so that people do not prefer stronger goods. It was also a pleasure to read here that the Social Affairs Committee was approached for an opinion and that specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance were also heard. It was considered that the higher the level of excise duty on alcohol, the more difficult alcohol is available, especially for young people. The increase in excise duty rates was therefore supported. I look forward to this green book, which is intended to be published in order to get the full picture of Estonian alcohol policy. It is nice that so many social problems were discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's like you're out for public health. To continue with this speech, I would also like to mention my own small statistics. Perhaps few of us know that one in eight men in Estonia is addicted to alcohol. In short, one in eight men is basically a drunk. In Estonia, alcoholism is considered to be a disease, and our specialists say that alcoholics are not born, but are led by life's difficulties. And now I want to stop for a moment at these difficulties in life. Let's think about why Estonian men drink a lot! There are historical reasons for this. When we look at the 1990s when we entered the new social order, despite the great respect for our ladies sitting here in this Chamber, I dare say that the main difficulty fell on the men's shoulders. The family had to be fed, the job was hard to get, everyone was advised to become entrepreneurs. The big, heavy men tried to be company leaders, bought their buses and trucks to do business with them. Most men couldn't do it. The man came home from work last night, and the salary was very small, and the children and the woman asked where the money was. The men started drinking. I think that the change in the social order is one of the great reasons why men started drinking, and why one in eight men is still alcoholic among the people with severe alcoholism. And there's another totally unexpected statistical figure for me, so I brought it to this remote control. It has recently been published in the Estonian press. Imagine, Mr Sõerd, we're drinking an average of 12 liters of absolute alcohol a year. Does anyone believe that in this hall? We have to believe the statistics are official. At the end of the Russian era, we drank twice as much. At the end of the Russian era, in the 1990s, an average of 6 litres of alcohol per capita was sold in Estonia. This is really unexpected. We're used to talking about everyone drinking in Russian times, and in Soviet times everyone was drunk, but it turns out that there are twice as many drunks in the present republic as there were in the ESSR. You'll find such surprising data when you start looking at statistics. I would also like to remind some ladies in this hall that ladies, girls and ladies, be careful, alcohol is particularly difficult for you. Alcohol has a much stronger effect on women than on men. Because of the physiological characteristics of the body, women get drunk faster and longer under the influence of alcohol. When a woman and a man of the same weight drinks the same amount of alcohol, her blood alcohol levels are up to a third higher than that of a man. A woman's body takes a third longer to get her alcohol out of her blood. How much do I have?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U926	That's it? I'd like to say women, be careful. I'll give you a hint: the National Institute for Health Development recommends that women who drink should be given at least three alcohol-free days each week and drink at most two alcohol units a day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U927	And with these valuable advice, your time has come to an end. Thank you very much. We're listening to Marika Tuus-Laul now. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U928	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start by making a little dodgy history and recall that the last two governments of Andrus Ansip have very much loved to fill the state budget by constantly increasing excise duties. In 2007, as soon as the government was put together, the Minister of Finance, Ivari Padar, introduced a package of tax laws and one of the first drafts started to raise excise duties. The excise duty on petrol, diesel, kerosene and LPG was increased as well as excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products, excise duty was imposed on electricity, natural gas and oil shale fuel oil. The same tax package also included a 1% reduction in income tax each year, which was due to reach 18% by 2011, last year. Of course, this last reduction in income tax has not taken place, but excise duties have been constantly raised so many times that no one can accurately remember this figure. I don't think our financial specialist could say that either. Alcohol excise has risen almost every year, sometimes even half a year. So today's draft, which will determine the increase in alcohol duty for the next four years, is nothing special. However, this is somewhat special in that the justification for raising excise duties is different than in the past. So far, ministers have highlighted public health and stressed that raising excise duties is one way of fighting against the devil. A number of factors have been identified: increasing drinking among young people, including teenagers, high mortality rates in alcohol-related diseases, deaths related to young men's accidents, etc. The draft we are discussing today is very brief and concise: the aim of the draft is to increase the revenue from the state budget by increasing the rates of excise duty on alcohol. That's right. And it has already been pointed out that, in four years, excise duties on alcohol will be increased by 5% each year and that this will be done at the same rate as the overall price increase. That's it. If you look at the explanatory memorandum, it is fortunate to note that the committee was called by Specialist Andrus Lipand, a lecturer at Tallinn School of Health, although, as far as I know, the main content of his work is combating smoking, he is not so much involved in the issue of alcohol. I've worked with him once and I know. It can be said that the current government, however, does not care about people's health. We are thinking about everything that has recently taken place in Estonia: there has been an increase in visitation and bedtime fees, reduced admissions to specialist doctors, dental care has long been neglected by the government, restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies have been lifted, and pharmaceutical aid is even more transformed into a pharmaceutical business, etc. Against this background, it is clear why the draft decision of the Riigikogu drawn up by the Central Party Group was voted down so that 20% of the money received from this same excise duty would go directly to the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. In the budget for the following year, 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco would amount to around EUR 74 million. This money could, of course, be used to prevent health damage caused by alcohol and tobacco products and to remedy the consequences of their use. This direct channelling of excise money for prevention and treatment activities, as well as raising the salaries of health care workers, would make it possible to organise treatment activities in Estonia much better and more targeted. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Health Care Workers' Federation and the Estonian Sisters' Association have said in their address that there is an urgent need for more healthcare money at the moment. Why not channel money from excise duty to reduce habits that are harmful to people's health? Let us not forget that Estonian people consume a lot of alcohol: as has already been said here today, on average 12 litres of pure alcohol per year, including infants and elderly people. We die of alcohol - related diseases every year, with over 500 of them men. Nearly a third of the deaths are caused by liver alcoholic disease, plus all kinds of poisoning, as well as mental and behavioural disorders. There is also a great deal of alcohol - related diseases. These sad figures have already been well mentioned here today. So we are not against raising alcohol duty, but this money should be used for prevention and treatment. However, since the government does not want to channel money from alcohol duty, even in part, into health care, it is really clear to us that the government wants this money to be purely national budget enforcement. The excise money keeps the budget up. The rapporteur also referred to the number of alcohol shops in Tallinn, for example. However, I can say that their number has fallen considerably since 2000, when the Centre Party was not in power and the capital was governed by the right-wing Dwarf Coalition and who was all there. I was on TV then, and I did a special show. We went to Viru Street and filmed there: we stood in the middle of the street, and the camera could be full circled, and there was a liquor store in every direction. But it's gone. I don't have an exact bill to bring, but these stores have been cut short. I also remember that during Laar's government, all kinds of state fees were constantly raised, including marriage and divorce. The only state fee that was then reduced was the licence fee for the sale of alcohol. That was the alcohol policy of the government at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U929	Thank you very much. Next up, call chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U930	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last April, over 300 drafts have been passed through this hall, and most of them have been prepared by the government. I think that some 150-200 drafts have also been adopted, and I must admit or simply state that I have supported at most ten of them. Because funny, I don't vote on a government bill unless I'm sure it's 100% useful and there's no cheating. Today it is a bill that I support. I will certainly vote in favour of adoption at third reading, for the following reasons. Looking at the World Health Organisation data, it turns out that 4% of deaths are caused by alcohol, with strong alcohol. That's more than dying of AIDS and all the military conflicts that break out in the world during the year. Vodka, of course, has a special role to play. I'm sorry, I can't show you any closer, but here's a very interesting graph, or two graphs. One has a curve for access to vodka and the other has a mortality rate for men of working age. Anyone who wants to look at them can see that they're completely parallel. They're going next to each other. The thing is, vodka is a special drink that's hard to overestimate. There is evidence that around 90% of people in the United States who undergo alcohol abuse treatment have become alcoholic in vodka drinking. We think they drink whiskey in America. They're really drinking, but they're drinking vodka. This graph is drawn up for Russia, but here is an explanation that in all countries where vodka is the main drink of power, the story is exactly the same. This draft raises the excise duty and it can be expected that the lower the availability of vodka is calculated very easily, the average wage is taken and the vodka is divided at the average price of ', the more the mortality rate will go down. The only question is how to calculate the correct percentage by which excise duty should be increased. I asked the Commission's waitress how it would be done. Is it simply the aim of obtaining additional revenue in the state budget, or are specific targets in the area of health also taken into account? The answer was one and the other. In fact, this bill only talks about additional revenue from the state budget. I do not believe that we will be able to get together once again in the near future when we discuss this law, at least to change excise duties on alcohol. But if it comes sometime next time, I'd like to know if all the figures that are usually taken into account in the world have been taken into account. It's quite easy to do, it takes work, of course, but it's quite possible. This will take into account the harm that alcohol causes to health care, the treatment required, the causes of absences, the damage caused by fires, etc. It can be calculated very accurately. And then they find out what the total damage is, how much alcohol is consumed, split up and get that percentage and the excise. I hope that's exactly what's gonna happen next time. Now, however, I would like to comment on one of the rapporteur's sentences that sounded in this Chamber and relates to this subject. This concerns the Minister of Finance. There was this sentence: 'You don't want to listen to our finance minister. 'Well, I mean, what do you do then? Actually, I like listening to our finance minister. He's a very attractive person, anyway. He's not the kind of vague ghost that passed by and you forgot about him right away. Who can forget that sentence that touched, remember, cheap electricity and gasoline? They say it's shit when he's cheap. You might think it's linked to a sharp increase in electricity prices over the next two years, maybe not, but that's what he said. And such a suggestion to a single female pensioner: you have to die in time, because 11 years of living without a man is said to be very hard. You remember that sentence, remember who said that? It's attractive, isn't it? Oh, come on! You, who were also in the previous composition, were interested in why, instead of being among the five richest countries, we suddenly came to 22nd place in the European Union. So, what advice did they give you? They told me to find another country if you don't like it here. And the way in which the debate on free school food was conducted and cannot be forgotten. And the last thing: I don't bother! So I'd like to talk to the Minister of Finance, but a two-person conversation requires a two-way call. Personally, I don't see that wish. I think if there's a split-up like this, it'll actually lose everything. If there is no cooperation, if there is no debate, if people constantly oppose each other, and if they urge the people around to do the same, it will not do any good. Finally, once again, this draft law seems to be useful and should be supported. Why I'm doing this, I explained it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U931	Thank you very much. Please, Eldar Efendiev! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U932	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In order for it to be set out what position I appreciate this bill, I will say right away that the direction of the bill is good in itself. I support this direction. I'm also trying to explain a little why. I am not only supporting this because the budget's income is increasing, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. I also support this because it helps to reduce alcohol consumption and, in this way, even a little to protect people's health. Aivar Sõerd spoke a bit about this today, but unfortunately, the health sector is quite absent from the bill. Of course, it would be useful to pay more attention to this, as well as to change the culture of alcohol consumption. This is also very important. The statistics that have been brought before us are really terrible. Such a simple billing of 12 liters per person! If the bottles are taken into account, one bottle per two weeks should be reported. It's a terrible thing! This really should be a very sharp topic for us here in the Riigikogu; people also need protection from us. One thing I didn't quite understand. The last sentence of the explanatory memorandum relates to the intention of discussing more broadly the harmonisation of excise rates for lean and strong alcohol in the spring of next year. I asked Aivar Sõerd about this, but Aivar clearly said that there was no need for it, this is not the right direction. But what is it going to be discussed for when this position is quite precisely formulated today? I really should have asked you a few more questions to understand. From now on, we will also try to get more information on how the debate will take place next year. I hope that the Green Paper on alcohol policy sets out the ideology and culture of alcohol consumption for a long time. Of course, it should be taken into account that the increase in the price of alcohol affects other areas, such as tourism. That's what my question to Aivar was about. About four years ago, when we had a sharp increase in excise duty, I asked quite incidentally a taxi driver how life was going. Taxi drivers, as you all know, are in some ways like indicators, react quickly to all the changes in society. The answer was that there were fewer tourists. I asked why there were fewer. But because the rate of excise duty increased a few months ago, prices increased and tourists immediately reacted. The occupancy of hotels and everything related to tourism fell for a while. And it was a marked decline. Later, things stabilized, of course, and life moved on. But why did I ask that question? Because such effects need to be taken into account. All sectors that are directly or indirectly linked to the rise of excise duties must plan ahead that such times will come when they will inevitably have to lose their turnover. After all, the increase in alcohol prices is also a punishment for alcohol consumers, but this penalty is not a high annual increase of 5% in excise duty over four years between 2013 and 2016. This punishment can be assessed as quite flexible, and the initiators of the law also showed themselves to be good. The step-by-step increase in excise duties is very sensible, and I also support it. However, since our debate has been broad today and many other issues have also been addressed, whether or not they relate to excise duties, I would like to highlight the increase in other prices. I can't just leave a few words to touch another sales item, which is also getting more expensive. It's electricity. I do not understand why alcohol can be made more expensive in stages and flexibly, but not electricity. It is understandable, however, that alcohol consumption is a matter of choice, while electricity consumption is a matter of life. Of course, you can say that electricity is also a matter of choice, you can choose life without electricity. But it probably doesn't take any effort to imagine what life is without electricity. The current level of electricity excise duty is a punishment for our poorest people in particular. Alcohol excise is growing gradually and, as I said, it is very right. But since electric excises are rising exponentially, I don't think that's right. The basis could be the European Union's minimum level and a step-up approach. Why do we have to punish our people and municipalities, who, even after the surge in electricity prices, have to maintain infrastructure, such as kindergartens, schools, cultural centres, social welfare institutions, etc., and collide costs in other areas, which means reducing wages and formations? This isn't right. But I support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U933	Thank you very much. I'll call Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U934	Madam President, I'm about to ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U935	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U936	Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a long debate here on this bill, but it has not become any smarter. Yes, they say that we are raising excise duty by 5% and that then, I do not know whether five or several percent of people's health should be improved as alcohol availability decreases. But nature doesn't like an empty place, so people get the toughest stuff people want to drink from elsewhere. In general, we are accustomed to being told all sorts of things about this remote control, and a lot of bills are being made. The Prime Minister is particularly good at juggling numbers. He's got a pretty big staff, a lot of party counselors who write him these numbers. In general, he's very good with numbers, I admire. The Minister of Social Affairs here tells us how good it is to have the bed and visit fees increased. You know, I don't want to be a minister in this government that increases the price of alcohol. It's an old well-known truth that a government that raises the price of alcohol doesn't have a long party. And frankly, look, everywhere that attempts have been made to limit alcohol consumption, it has brought nothing good. In the 1920's, when the United States had a dry law, it gave birth to a mob that still lives happily ever after. The other thing is that there is growing work and restricting alcohol advertising. In this hall, we've been talking about restricting alcohol advertising. The coalition's side has strongly opposed this under no circumstances! This is harassing the local producer, causing losses to the producers. And now I understand why it's been so. Probably some time ago, people thought, " Why reduce the production and consumption of alcohol if you could put taxes on it and fill the treasury with it? ' It is, of course, to be welcomed that the drafters have quite admitted that the aim is to fill the Treasury by raising excise duties on alcohol. Okay, filled. And in fact, this 5% increase per year is not a big increase, although the consumer will somehow suffer it, but maybe 5% less buys legal alcohol and 5% more underground. People are smart, they'll find a way to get it cheaper, especially in the Narva area. By the way, it is such an interesting phenomenon in Narva that residents there do not withdraw all the social benefits as much as possible. They simply do not apply for them because they fear that income will be controlled. But somehow they live. That's not why they're bad people. Believe me, the vast majority of people are completely honest citizens! I understand that politicians may find it hard to believe it, but really people are honest, they are not criminals and thieves, but hunger and cold make them do things. For example, I have a private dumpster at my home where I stuff my life's waste. One time a very well-dressed gentleman approached me and said, "I'm sorry, can my friend and I look in your container? I promise we won't throw away garbage. If something falls down, we'll pick it up. 'Well,' I said, 'but really make sure everything stays all right. ' I believe that these people are not professional trash who have dreamed of this post since childhood and studied it in a vocational school or university. It's what they do when they're in trouble. There's a lot of things a man can do if he's in trouble. You know, I used to have a known smuggler. He's gone missing now, either he went on refresher courses for a couple of years or he got a better job, I don't know. But first he was lucky to smoke, he had a vest with pockets. Then he started dragging vodka from Narva, and he was a very clever scheme. He hired the local old ladies, Ivangorod had a vodka, there was an empty truck on Narva's side, and then the moles, with about 60 carrier bags, each with two bottles or two liters of vodka, I can't remember how much was allowed, just tip-kill there, tip-kill back, carried the whole truck across the border. The man lived quite well until he became greedy, and in addition to the vodka, he became lucky. He suddenly discovered that only Swedish scythes are sold in Estonia at the axe price. In Russia, the scythe doesn't pay anything, and a decent tree stalk in the back. And then these little ladies once started to cross the bridge, two bottles of vodka in a bag and a big scythe on their shoulders. Well, of course, both the Russian and Estonian border guards immediately began to think about what kind of crap they were taking last night to see that kind of thing. Yeah, well, I'm just saying to prove that people are smart, he'll be fine somehow. Neither do we, in principle, fight alcohol excise, but with alcohol excise, all other excises, such as electric excises, are increased. It is a targeted activity in which, without selecting resources and damaging the health of people and the economic interests of the country, it simply puts a full budget hole in which money flows out to an unknown location. If we knew where the alcohol duty was going, we'd take the vodka consciously. If we knew where the tobacco excise was going, it would make sense to lift it. But if all this money goes where they don't know, it shouldn't be like allowing it. You know, once again, the government that raises the price of alcohol can't have a long party for this government. I am, of course, not going to have any protests now, and I am not going to consume any excise-free secret vodka, because my health simply does not allow me to drink enough to cause significant budgetary damage. But yet I confess: if anyone comes and puts a bottle in front of me that has been obtained without excise duty, and says, "Viktor, take a chin! ', then, damn it, I'll take that chin. And this chin is exactly the amount of excise duty you've been assigned to increase by 20% over a number of years. And in doing so, I express my protest against the rise of all other excise duties. But with this bill, I wondered whether I would vote in favour or against. Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes! Of course, I am in favour of this because by raising the price of vodka, you will dig your own grave, and I will be willing to help you with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U937	Thank you very much. Please, Kaia Eva, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U938	Let's pass this request on to the technicians. Very much depends on how loud the talk is. But everyone has their own individual voice, and it will certainly enrich us all. But let's keep going. Please, Kalev Kallo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U939	Would it be possible, please, to regulate the sound system so that calls give us a more or less normal voice? The amplification is too strong and it will not be possible to monitor the speech in this Chamber if it is so loudly presented. The ears won't hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U940	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to keep it down a bit. In the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, we can read that in the Government of the Republic. The draft of 10 September 2016 raises excise duties on alcohol by 5% per year in order to increase the revenue of the state budget. It is estimated that the increase in excise duties on alcohol will result in an increase in the tax revenue of the state budget of EUR 7 million in 2013, EUR 22 million in 2014, EUR 40 million in 2015 and EUR 60 million in 2016. Alcohol duty rates will be increased at the same rate as the overall increase in prices. Note this last sentence, which certainly needs to be repeated and underlined: excise duties on alcohol are increased at the same rate as the overall increase in prices. I don't know if it's someone's finger or the coalition accidentally chucked it out in the explanatory memorandum, but there are the most evil intentions towards the people: namely to encourage or encourage an increase in prices of at least 5% per year in the next four years, or in four years, prices will rise by 20%. I believe that we have a market economy. Moreover, we have the most liberal and most open market economy, which is why prices are determined by the market. We do not have the government to regulate prices or, if so, only natural monopolies whose prices are controlled by the Competition Authority in accordance with the law. Here too, the aim is precisely to keep prices under control and to prevent them from being raised uncontrolled. I dare categorically argue against this and ask: did the 20% VAT to the room temperature set the market? Did the market introduce an increase of 13,2% in electricity grid charges? Did the market introduce fuel excise duties well above the EU average? Finally, has the market introduced excise duty on electricity four and a half times the minimum required by the European Union? The common answer is: no, all these fees have been imposed by our government. All these fees are considerably higher in absolute terms than in many of our far richer countries in the European Union. If we were to look at the level of these fees compared to our standard of living and compare it with those of other countries, the picture is screaming and no other way than to call the Estonian government the kidnapper of its own people. Therefore, the overall increase of 5% per year in this explanatory memorandum should be taken very seriously. We all remember very well how VAT was increased by 2% four days before it came into force. We also remember the introduction of an electricity excise duty 4.5 times higher than the European Union's demand. We remember how suddenly and suddenly fuel excise has been raised, etc. This is very simple: today, we will all receive a bill on all our tables completely unexpectedly, and in a month's time, new tax payments will be in place. To confirm my words, I will give a fresh example of the government's form of behaviour or handwriting, which can be described as you wish, does not change the content. I am referring to the pending draft law on maritime safety, which increases the fee for certain groups of ships up to 6 times, and market participants did not hear about it until the draft had been received by the Riigikogu. The frustrated and worrying letters of the market participants unambiguously contradict the Minister's assurance that the market participants have been negotiated and, more importantly, that they have all agreed. Turns out the minister was just lying. I will now look at the optimistic figures for the additional revenue from the budget set out in the explanatory memorandum. An additional €129 million is expected in four years. For some reason, even though the price rises by 5% each year, it is thought that smoking and drinking will continue at the same rate. I doubt that very much. For some reason, I think that there are enough people who decide to abandon one or the other with this constant rise in prices. But if you can't leave behind, there's a secret market where the stuff is cheaper. In this context, it is appropriate to recall the words of the representative of the Tax and Customs Board at the conference of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association that 43.8 million euros were lost due to secret tobacco in 2011 and 10.5 million euros in excise duty due to secret vodka. This amounts to EUR 54.3 million. What is the basis of optimism for increasing tax receipts, but not for the latter figures? No meaningful and expert analysis has been carried out, as is the practice of government-led drafts. I dare confirm quite confidently that the share of snuff and alcohol is increasing and that the country's excise tax losses are increasing. Right, I do not have an appropriate analysis, too, and I am relying on the figures from the Tax and Customs Board for 2011, so we are in the same position as the government in this regard. Today, unfortunately, the Estonian Central Party Group's proposal to amend the draft budget of the country for 2013 has already been voted out, with which we wanted to increase the labour and management costs of the Tax and Customs Board by EUR 5 million in order to achieve an increase in tax receipts of EUR 50 million. Sadly, this once reached rescue straw was also broken under the heavy roller of the coalition. Finally, we need to read the explanatory notes very carefully, so we will learn a little sooner about some of the things that lie ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U941	Thank you very much. Ester Tuiksoo speech chair, please! Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U942	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we are discussing the issue of alcohol duty here, it is appropriate to recall a turn of October. In October this year, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Health Care Workers' Federation and the Estonian Sisters' Association addressed the Riigikogu and the Government with a proposal to raise excise duty on fresh alcoholic beverages to obtain additional money from the health care system and to satisfy the salary demands of health care workers 2.6 times. In their address, the associations noted that both international organisations and local experts have drawn attention to the need for additional funding for health care in Estonia. So far, there has been more debate on the redistribution of money within the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but it does not bring any extra money to health care. If the excise duty on lean and strong alcohol were equal, the associations estimate that this would bring EUR 92 million to the state budget next year, which they would say would be enough to meet the demands of health professionals. However, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance made it clear that they do not support this idea. It was also said that EUR 92 million was not a real amount, which would then be added to the state budget. It is important to note that the Coalition's partners in the Reform Party and the IRL disagreed on this issue. When the Reform Party considered this an interesting topic for discussion, the IRL thought it was worth considering. However, I am pleased that we are discussing raising excise duties on alcohol here today, as it hopefully reduces alcohol consumption and thus contributes to the health of Estonian people. Alcohol policy is organised by the state, both the government and the Riigikogu. The state can raise taxes, prices, reduce availability, advertising and improve the treatment system. Before coming to this speech chair, I did some research on what Estonian media publications have written on this subject. I found an interesting article on the National Broadcasting Portal, where Triinu Täht, chief specialist at the Ministry of Social Affairs, stressed that in addition to the annual 5% increase in alcohol excise duty, the Ministry has an even more serious and deeper plan. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to start taking health effects into account when setting excise duties on alcohol, not only how much it could bring in to the Treasury. The aim is to develop a scheme or model for alcohol taxation, whereby different parties would say their word, who would regularly assess whether the current excise duty is sufficient to prevent or increase health damage. It cannot, of course, be overlooked here that excise duty should not be merely a way of collecting money. In particular, the excise duty on alcohol should limit alcohol consumption and try to prevent health damage, which should be an elementary point of view. I am also very pleased that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs is allowing restrictions on the price, availability and advertising of alcohol in the new alcohol policy. The aim is also to restructure the shops to start selling alcohol in one area like Tallinn. It seems that the Ministry of Social Affairs has begun to like some of the ideas of the Central Party. Since our current coalition likes statistics so much, I'll bring some figures for my part. In 2011, an average Estonian citizen consumed 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol. If we count the children out of that list, this figure is 12 liters per person per year. Unfortunately, in this number, we are at the forefront of Europe. At the same time, the Estonian people themselves admit that they drink too much. According to a research carried out by the Institute of Conjuncture, 81% of Estonians believe that alcohol consumption should be reduced in Estonia, and 75% of Estonians estimate that there is too much drinking in Estonia. What is the result of so much alcohol consumption? While in Europe, on average, alcohol causes 10% of premature deaths, one in three men in Estonia die prematurely from health damage caused by alcohol. One in three men! By the way, a study carried out by German scientists showed that alcohol dependence reduces life expectancy by an average of two decades. What should we do together, then, to limit alcohol consumption and the resulting harm to health? Marje Josing, Director of the Estonian Conjuncture Institute, has stressed that the talk about good domestic education and all kinds of leisure opportunities does not help to limit alcohol consumption. Price, sales and advertising restrictions are more effective. So, once again, we come to the point that alcohol policy is to control the country. Many studies confirm that the social harm associated with excessive consumption of alcohol is much greater than the tax revenue generated by its production and sale. I will once again use the help of Marje Josing and read to you one of his suggestions: 'Alcohol advertising should be severely restricted. The arguments about the disappearing advertising revenue are cynical, given the amount of alcohol-related damage. The aim of advertising is to increase sales and design loyal customers. In the case of alcoholic beverages, we don't need either. ' Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all members of the Central Party Group are in favour of increasing excise duty on alcohol. So it would be very reasonable to take out a draft banning alcohol advertising from the drawer, so let's make a law about it! This would benefit all Estonians. I would like to add here that the issue of alcohol has been discussed by a number of governments and we have almost all ministries dealing with it, just the government has not yet managed to get all those involved under one hat. According to my memory, there are about eight ministries with contacts on this subject. It would make sense to discuss it systematically, not in a fragmented way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U943	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a chair for Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U944	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I have a good chance to start where Esther Tuiksoo ended up talking about the need to ban alcohol advertising. I'm sure I'll talk about it in the other half of my speech. I, too, believe that the Committee on Economic Affairs, in whose proceedings the draft banning alcohol advertising is in the drawer, for some reason, is keeping it in the drawer, even though our political group has sent a letter to the chairman of the committee with the proposal to withdraw it from the drawer. So far, this has not happened, which is extremely unfortunate. A recent research by the Institute of Conjuncture revealed that in 2011, about 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per capita in Estonia was drunk, that 86% of adults drink alcohol, and that there are more frequent consumption of dilute alcoholic beverages, such as beer and wine. Sadly, in recent years, people have started to prefer strong alcohol rather than lean alcohol. 80% of people think that there should be a restrictive alcohol policy in Estonia; more than half of respondents considered strict restrictions necessary. People are more in favour of dealing with young people and restricting alcohol advertising. It should be noted that during the years of the economic crisis, alcohol consumption decreased sharply. Average consumption per capita in 2009 was 10.1 litres and in 2010 9.6 litres of alcohol per year. In 2011, the graph again showed direction: as I said, 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per person per year. It is this kind of statistics, these very thought-provoking figures and the opinion of the people that has created the need to take national alcohol policy seriously. One of the activities in this area is undoubtedly the draft excise duty increases currently under discussion. There is an interesting study by Indrek Saar, doctoral student of the University of Tartu. When I asked the Commission's rapporteur, Aivar Sõerd, where there could be a ceiling where alcohol duty could be raised, Mr Sõerd could not answer me. But Indrek Saar, a doctoral student at the University of Tartu, presented his research aimed at assessing the optimal level of alcohol taxation and found that the excise duty could be up to twice the current level. The content of today's draft is to increase alcohol excise duty by 5% per year, but the study carried out by Indrek Island says it could be 50 to 200%. In its analysis, it took into account both the budgetary objectives of the government and the negative effects on society of alcohol consumption. Two aspects were given special attention: firstly, the fact that a large part of alcohol is bought by tourists in Estonia; secondly, the fact that higher taxation of alcohol may lead to an increase in the secret market; and the government may need more resources to cope with it. The total impact on the budgetary position resulting from both additional tax revenue and lower costs linked to the reduction in crime and disease has been calculated. Indrek Saare's scenario, where excise duty would be twice as high as it is now, would result in a State financial gain of EUR 150 to 200 million. A tax increase would also contribute to reducing death by up to 200 cases per year, according to the doctoral student. As I said to the Commission rapporteur, Aivar Sõerd, on my second question, no doubt raising excise duty on alcohol is not the only measure to be dealt with in the framework of alcohol policy. The Centre Party Group has already tabled a draft ban on alcohol advertising on 16 May 2011. It aims to reduce the consumption and consequences of alcohol by children and young people. In particular, the impact of alcohol on children and young people, their values and attitudes must be taken into account. We need to be aware of the great influence of alcohol advertising, and the use of alcohol has become a socially accepted and recommended activity, as it supports values and attitudes that favour drinking. In addition, advertising is also intended to recruit new consumers. Can I have an extra three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U945	According to studies carried out in OECD countries, alcohol consumption is 16% lower in countries with limited alcohol advertising. In countries where restrictions on soft alcohol advertising apply in addition to strong alcohol, the amount of alcohol consumed is still 11% lower. So banning the promotion of both strong and lean alcohol means a total of nearly a third less alcohol consumption. The number of road accidents in countries with strong alcohol advertising restrictions has decreased by 10% and in countries with both strong and lean alcohol advertising restrictions by 23%. The link between drinking and advertising among young people has also been convincingly demonstrated by World Health Organisation studies. Five minutes of watching alcohol advertising increases alcohol consumption by a bottle of lean beer a day. The effect of alcohol advertising on young people is also extremely long lasting. People who saw more alcohol advertising on young TV used to consume more alcohol than others throughout their subsequent lives, and the importance of each ad they saw clearly emerged. Each advertisement viewed increased the volume of drinks consumed by 1%. The biggest problem with these ads is that alcohol consumption is served as safe, risk-free and problem-free activities, with only positive emotions. However, potential health risks and other negative consequences will be overlooked. Good advertising also reduces the impact of prevention and health education. At the same time, there have been a number of signals in Estonia about the willingness to limit alcohol advertising, including from alcohol producers and importers themselves. This is understandable, because many other European countries have gone down the road of banning advertising. For example, all alcohol advertising has been banned in Norway, as did our neighbour Lithuania last year. In Finland, there is a ban on the advertising of strong alcohol; in Sweden, advertising of alcohol is completely prohibited on radio and outdoor media, on television in France. Why did I dwell so long on the issue of alcohol advertising when the content of the current draft is narrower than the increase in alcohol excise duty? I would like to emphasise once again that excessive alcohol consumption cannot certainly be solved by increasing excise duty within the framework of a single draft. A number of other measures are also needed to achieve this. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been talking for quite several years about the issue of a so-called Green Paper. Unfortunately, at least this has not reached the large Chamber of Parliament so far. I do not even know whether it has been under discussion in the Commission or not. In addition to the increase in excise duty, the ban on advertising, the restrictions on outlets, as has been the case in many countries, could be considered. I have already recalled in my question the implementation of the ban on the sale of alcohol at night. Perhaps we should review the current times and shorten the time for the sale of drinks. Once again: alcohol policy should be made complex, and I very much expect the Green Paper promised by the Ministry of Social Affairs to come to Parliament once and for all. Indeed, 10.2 liters of absolute alcohol per capita per year is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U946	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U947	Thank you very much. Call chair, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U948	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's rapporteur, Aivar Sõerd, devoted a great deal of attention to graduated income tax. I use this eloquence to explain a little about why progressive income tax is good for Finns, for example, on the day before yesterday's Postimees article. Do Finns really love high taxes? There are a small number of countries in the world where education, health care and other social benefits are as accessible to everyone as they are in Finland. Upstairs, however, not all citizens hold it in the same way. While the poorest in Finland pay much less tax than in Estonia as a percentage of their many times higher wages, welfare and public services tend to be more prosperous, some of whom give up almost half of their income for the benefit of the common good. The progressive nature of taxes, i.e. the level of income, applies not only to income tax in Finland, but also to traffic fines and kindergarten taxes, and the more expensive the car, the higher the car tax. How do the richer, the more capable and the best Finns agree? Finnish citizens have been interviewed on this subject. According to Tom, who works as a media planner, progressive taxation of income is in principle fair and he would be willing to give up, in future, up to 50% of the earned wages in the form of taxes. 'If I make enough, I could pay,' he said. Katja, a 36-year-old who has worked as a staff consultant for nearly 10 years and is now on maternity leave, considers flexibility and a sense of security to be the advantages of a progressive tax system. 'I earned a good salary before,' he said, 'I paid approximately 30% of the tax and didn't consider it much. ' Now that the income is lower, the woman is happy that the tax rate has fallen to 10%. Ultimately, it is a question of social security. Eneli, an Estonian doctor who has been working in Kajaan in Eastern Finland for some time, is also surprised by his high tax rate. 'In Estonia, after the second and third courses, I was a nurse in East Tallinn Central Hospital during the summer,' she recalled her first work experience in the Estonian medical system. For a month of working as a guardian, he then received 1 700 kroons. 'I remember stepping out of the hospital after the night watch, watching those cars over there... I went to the Stockmann Mall and I thought, "If I had a salary like that... " Although she went to Finland not only because of her salary, but rather to gain real work experience and delay her final choice of profession, she initially wanted to take rather than give in Finnish society. 'In the beginning there was a reluctant reaction,' he recalled, 'but I began to think differently in Finland. The security I get from Finland is worth it. ' Coming now to excise duty and alcohol policy, I would like to say that excise duty on alcohol is not the only measure that affects people's alcohol consumption. The regulation of the alcohol market is much more effective. There are not many countries in Europe where alcohol can be recovered at any time at petrol stations. A hidden alcohol ad is if you have to go through a ten - meter alcohol section in the grocery store before you can pay the check in the register. It's actually a commercial, and there could be separate stalls for alcohol. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U949	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U950	As far as excise duties on alcohol are concerned, there is a direct link between this and people's income and standard of living. If people's incomes are low, it is not possible to increase alcohol excise duties in the short term there would certainly be a secret market. The share of the secret market is quite high in Estonia. We are certainly in competition with our neighbours, Latvia, Russia, Lithuania. Therefore, excise policy in these countries should be monitored in order not to turn out to be a country with a higher excise duty, because people are making very quick use of it. When it comes to excise duties at all, I think that compared to, for example, when we pay excise duty on fuel and electricity, alcohol duty is one of the fairest excise duties, because it directly affects human health. So this is a subject that will be worth meditating on in the future. Should alcohol excise duty be increased to cover the state budget at this rate and with this frequency? This is a place of serious thinking. And it is also a place of serious thinking to tax more lean or strong alcohol. In order to respond, the opinion of experts, not so much of producers, should be carefully listened to, as the latter are directly dependent on the increase in excise duties. That's all for me. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U951	Next, please speak to Lauri Laas! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U952	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, this draft law aims to increase the excise duty rate of 5% per year for the years 2013 to 2016. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has said in one of his speeches, namely at first reading, that there is a need to increase the revenue of the state budget and, at the same time, to make it more difficult to access alcohol. The revenue of the state budget, when this bill becomes a law, is likely to increase, because statistics show that the Estonian people are quite a busy consumer of alcohol. According to the Conjuncture Institute, consumption of Estonian people's alcoholic beverages in 2011 was 18.29 million litres of alcohol, which is 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per capita. Drinking alcohol causes over 60 different diseases, such as cancer and heart disease, accidents, injuries, mental and behavioural disorders. This list can go on for a long time, so alcohol is one bad thing. Every year, 500-700 people die from alcohol-related diseases in Estonia, with more than 500 of them men. Nearly a third of deaths are caused by the liver's alcohol problem, followed by alcohol poisoning and alcohol-induced mental and behavioural disorders. Partly due to alcohol - related diseases, 3,0000,000 people die each year, and amazingly, more than half of them are women. Just as Estonia has remained stable at the top of many black rankings since regaining independence, however, we are also at the top of Europe in terms of alcohol deaths for men and women. Such figures are frightening in our small country and, taking into account the data of the Conjuncture Institute, we can claim that alcohol consumption is self-destructive to the gene pool of the Estonian people. In addressing the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Health Care Workers' Trade Union and the Estonian Sisters' Association to the Riigikogu, attention has been drawn to the urgent need for additional funding of health care. Alcohol and tobacco excise duties also play an important role in the implementation of the state budget. In the case of a reasonable level of alcohol duty, excise duty would limit excessive drinking and smoking. If the amounts from alcohol duty were earmarked for health care, the consequences of smoking and overdrinking could be further mitigated. Directing excise duties to medical treatment and raising the wages of health care workers would enable the Estonian medical system to organise treatment activities more efficiently and more specifically. The Central Party Group has proposed to introduce a legislative amendment that would direct 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco into the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. This would be one of the keys to reducing health harm caused by the consumption of alcoholic beverages. It is not possible to solve this problem by merely increasing excise duty. At the same time, we must not forget the activation of the shadow economy in the excessive roll-up of excise duty. One of the most tragic examples is the so-called methanol tragedy of Pärnu, which resulted in 68 deaths. In the days it took place, the secret vodka was considerably cheaper than the grocery vodka. It would be wrong to think that in time, the problem of bootlegged vodka has been reduced. For example, last year, the Director of the Conjuncture Institute said that when a person discovers that the price has risen sharply for him, a large proportion of consumers do not stop buying alcohol but try to find other alternative sources, such as the secret market. The Director of the Institute of Economic Research pointed out that while in 2007 the share of illegal alcohol was only 10% of the wine market in peak times of the economy, in 2010, for example, it accounted for a quarter of the wine market. The study also showed that 9% of respondents had purchased alcohol on the black market in 2010, compared to only around 3% in 2007. Thus, any increase in alcohol duty for as noble a purpose as it may be, must be made to ensure that the opposite consequences are not achieved. Rather, if we want to limit our drinking, we can make people get firewater from places beyond the corner, which may mean risking damage to health or even death. Various views have remained on the issue of increasing excise duty. For example, a doctoral thesis defended in 2011 at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Tartu found that in order to improve the health of the Estonian population and tax receipts, excise duties on alcohol should be increased by 50 to 200%. It is suggested that the introduction of a 50% higher excise duty would save a million euros of health expenditure per year in the long term and bring 50 million euros of tax revenue, but in order to obtain tax revenue, the alcohol taxation policy in Estonia should be based on more thorough analyses than has been the case so far. At the same time, when raising the tax, the Minister of Finance does not have to pay attention to us and talk only about surprising goals, such as reducing overdrinking and smoking, etc. We know that, in the case of a government as cynical as we currently have, the objective of the tax increase can be primarily to increase the revenue of the state budget in order to pay off, for example, the Greek party or the tax cuts that favour Estonia's wealthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U953	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speaker's chair, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U954	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I won't say a word about graduate income tax, even though the birthday girl's bill waitress's talk got in the way. But with regard to Tallinn, I only say so much that Tallinn was the city where the ban on the sale of alcohol during the night began. So the example of Tallinn in relation to this draft is quite appropriate. When my colleague, Kalev Kallo, read the beginning of the explanatory memorandum to the bill, he did a little bit of a different emphasis, I will try to look at it from a slightly different point of view. I will read to you: 'The draft, initiated by the Government of the Republic, including on 10 September, raises excise duties on alcohol by 5% per year between 2013 and 2016 in order to increase the revenue of the state budget. It is estimated that the increase in excise duties on alcohol will result in an increase in the tax revenue of the state budget of EUR 7 million in 2013, EUR 22 million in 2014, EUR 40 million in 2015 and EUR 60 million in 2016. The excise duty rates on alcohol are increased at a rate similar to that of the general price increase. ' That's what Kalev Kallo said a lot about. He said that, in essence, in four years, prices will rise by 20%. I would like to draw your attention to the last sentence of the introductory paragraph: the increase in excise duties on alcohol may reduce alcohol consumption, as the increase in excise duties on alcohol will result in an increase in the price of alcohol. Here's the key question for me. If the increase in excise rates really reduces alcohol consumption, there will be no additional EUR 40 million in 2015 and no additional EUR 60 million in 2016. In other words, if the increase in excise rates really helps to combat alcohol dependence, the state budget will, unfortunately, at least partially lose these millions. However, I understand very well that because there is unemployment in our country, that there are many problems, that there is depression, that people are drinking more and more. And the country is cashing in excise money all cold on it, because it's certain that vodka won't get drunk. People drink anyway, because they can't see any other way out. I'm in a mess right now. I do not know whether to vote in favour or against this bill, because I understand very well that if excise rates rise, the family's income will decrease. It's a two-way thing. There will be a new problem, and people will face new difficult situations. If we do not improve the overall social situation in this country, we should not expect alcohol consumption to decrease. We can hope that our budget will really grow thanks to heavy drinking. I'm asking for an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U955	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U956	In this regard, I remembered one of the events of three years ago when we went to the Netherlands with my colleague, Sven Sester, and other MEPs from European countries. Members of the so-called Eastern European Parliaments were invited there, and the aim, as I later understood, was that the mayor of Maastricht forced us to lean towards allowing the sale of light drugs in our countries as well. When I told him he'd become a drug addict, he was very offended. So I explained that I didn't think he was using drugs himself, but he's depending on the voters who are doing it, and because he's made their lives so easy that they get the drugs everywhere, he's also a drug addict. I'm really very worried because I don't know how to vote. I don't want to vote back, but if these prices are really going up and there are new tensions in families because the family father or mother still can't give up alcohol, then it's sad. These people sometimes think there is no other way out because our social policy has not changed. To be honest, I tend not to take part in this vote at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U957	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair in Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U958	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, there have been talk about the impact of alcohol excise duties on the economy and health, and many interesting aspects have been highlighted. I had to think that if all the issues were sort of over, there would still be something that hadn't been mentioned. In fact, it is not only possible for Parliament to live today; it is also appropriate to know traditions and cultural heritage when making its decisions. Today's debate made me think seriously about the role of beer in Estonia's history, and at the same time it made me think about its impact on our economy and public health. Beer has never been an insignificant thing in northern Europe. While the success and loss stories of entire countries in southern Europe have been linked to wine production and trade, we, in the north of Europe, have had thousands of people's celebrations, as well as sauna visits, talguds and sad events associated with beer. Brewing and regulating the price of beer were an important issue for every city in Estonia. The counties of Tallinn, Pärnu and Viljandi, Haapsalu and Kuressaare have all discussed beer problems repeatedly and thoroughly in the 17th-18th century. There was a fierce dispute in Tartu about who can brew beer in the first place and who can do it tax-free. Can a college professor brew beer for his own use? No, you can't. But is the student allowed? Of course you can't! Beer must be bought because brewing beer is the only livelihood and source of income for some honest citizens of the city, in addition to being a source of income for the city's treasury. The link between alcohol and health is not a modern discovery; it was known in ancient times. For example, in 1848, when a beer brewed in Tartu had brewed a beer that all drinkers knocked out from the bottom, the town council discussed whether they should not send this man to Siberia, because such beer brews are more suitable there than our beloved homeland. The production of beer in Estonia has been considered to be very important for the economy. It's not just the beer industry. Beer production must also have been a good source of income for farmers. Our peasant people have had a large share of their income from growing grain, including malt barley, throughout the ages. The same is true of vodka as well as vodka was a good commodity, and already in the Swedish era there was a big dispute, and the Estonian people do not drink themselves to death with the wine industry and others do not drink them to death. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U959	In 1696 the Swedish State forbade vodka at all, declaring that cereals should not burn everything into vodka. The Estonians kept burning the vodka, and they explained that they were doing it from acorns, beet leaves, ants' nests, and the devil knows what else. A large number of wise men have written about the burning of wine, including Jakob Johnson, the first famous agricultural scientist in Estonia from Viljandi County, who wrote a large and thick book entitled 'Burn of wine', where he gave 300 different recipes and talked about how the people quickly get rich because the great Russia wants to drink Estonian vodka. But we'll come back to the newer days. Jaan Lepajõe, a well-known teacher of Estonian farmers and professor at the Estonian Agricultural Academy, who was a highly educated person and promoter of the pursuit of a better life, has also written several interesting and thorough research-based books that had to pave the way for prosperity. They had specific titles: one was called 'Rukis', the other was 'Nits', the third was 'Oder', and in addition to them, oh miracle, there was the fourth book entitled 'Õlleoder'. It was also translated into Russian and was entitled 'Pivovarenny jatšmen v Estonia' or 'Õlleoder in Estonia'. There was indeed a profit expected from the cultivation of cereals, but the conflicts of many stakeholders spread around there. I'm sure we all remember very well the stories of a great soldier from Šveyk, who said one wise truth about alcohol production and taxation: this government, which raises the price of beer, will not last long. I believe that, in this plan, the idea of raising excise duty on beer is not 10% or 33%, as was originally intended, but at a much more moderate rate, a fairly balanced idea. In recent years, there have also been many serious debates around beer in Estonia, involving prominent politicians. Today, the words of our esteemed Prime Minister have been quoted that there is only one beer in Estonia, this is A.Le Coq, and there are many more beer-like drinks. Several other brewers were very upset about this, but it was already their personal comedy. It was also recalled the cases where our colleagues have spoken along, for example, a well-known sentence by Erki Arrow that the Minister of Finance has always had the hat of A.Le Coq on his head. But I'll come back to beer barley and beer again. Professor Jaan Lepajõe's dream that malting barley and beer will become an important factor in economic growth has not really come true. The problem is that 89% of our beer industry has foreign capital. Vodka is also driven from American and Australian cheap spirits. And right, right, nor does it pay to pet these foreign producers in particular, that is another good reason that the excise duty still needs to be raised a little. There is, of course, another aspect of the whole thing, and namely that raising excise duty on beer will certainly have some effect on the material well-being of the Estonian people. But you know, this effect is a few orders of magnitude smaller than the effect of electric excises. In all these circumstances, I have come to the simple conclusion that regulating the price of alcohol, moderate increases in excise duties is quite a sensible and good plan. However, it would be even better if, along with this small measure, which may cut the people's joy of life a little bit, one big step were taken: to improve the lives of people by reducing electric excise duty and preventing even more deformity than the fact that less beer can be drank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U960	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U961	Thank you very much. I believe that everyone in the hall enjoyed this historic field trip, which was truly professional. And please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U962	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in the hall at a late hour of the night? It is a pity that I cannot take a ten-minute break before starting my speech, because the effect of alcohol on the liver needs to be seriously considered. The real name of the problem is that the widespread alcoholism among Estonians is, after all, a historic problem, as the previous speaker said. In my opinion, the key issue of today's debate is quite different. And that is, if I am not fooled by my memory, it turned out from today's debate that the excise law has been amended at an extremely tight pace in recent times. The last change was in March this year. It actually tells us that we do not have alcohol policy. Indeed, the Centre Party has occasionally tried to bring alcohol policy into this hall. Priit Toobal has tried several times to start processing the draft law on banning alcohol advertising in the Riigikogu, but it has not received much response. Look, raising excise duties will inevitably lead us to a problem. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind, because raising alcohol duty doesn't affect my standard of living in any way. But obviously there are people whose standard of living it affects. They have chosen a way of drinking alcohol, whether or not they can, at the expense of their family. But that's not what I really want to talk about either. I want to talk about the fact that when developing our excise policies, we must take into account the specific characteristics of the region in which we live. We have had many heated debates in recent times about cross-border trade in this Chamber. Above all, it has been about fuel, but the exact same issue is about alcohol. And in the case of alcohol and, by the way, in the case of beer, this issue is particularly acute because the problem is two-way. One concern is that rising excise duties are creating a situation where more and more secret alcohol is being brought to Estonia from cheaper regions. Another problem is that our country has a very powerful historical-cultural background, but tourists travel to Estonia quite often because it makes sense for them to buy alcohol from here. I, too, like that our rates of excise duty are aligned with those of the developed world, because it adds something to life, but on the other hand, a rapid increase in prices which does not take account of the specific characteristics of the region will, unfortunately, increase the share of the shadow economy in this business. At different times, the excise duty on strong alcohol in particular has been quite well in the air, but it cannot be ruled out that at one point the same problem is also hitting the lean alcohol market. I therefore think that we will soon be faced with a situation where we need to tighten up national measures against, for example, domestic alcohol production. There have been debates on this subject, and different regions have tried to allow alcohol cooking at home, even when referring to historical-national traditions. We know Saaremaa's home beer. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U963	I know from my student-friendly time that brewing home beer is relatively common in Saaremaa. There's some strange name for very strong alcohol in South Estonia, and so on. In fact, we see that the social performance of our people shows signs of improvement, but, let's say, it can always be better. Which means that we can have very serious problems when prices rise from one region to another. I am not very convinced that raising excise duties on alcohol will lead to a considerable improvement in the tax base as a whole. It will certainly improve, but it is also likely to improve the opportunity for the informal economy to earn, and that would be quite regrettable. Alcohol producers are quite seriously considering sales trends in situations where either VAT or some other tax has risen. They have come to a clear recognition that the tax change introduced by the legislator, which is as a rule in the rising direction, actually means instability in taxation policy. We really do come up with some new idea every now and then, and we're going to be relatively enthusiastic about it. The result is a situation where producers do not have confidence. Unfortunately, people still drink, he does it at the expense of his family sometimes, and he doesn't miss a drink. The shadow economy will be successful, suffering families, and although we really need the money that alcohol excises should give to our state budget, we still do not do very much to combat reasonable things, or fight against alcoholism. This is where I come back with a circle, that if Priit Toobal comes and initiates a bill to limit alcohol advertising, then it might fail. I've seen him laugh over and over again. And I am very sad about that, because restricting alcohol advertising is the right thing to do. Anyone who wants a drink will find a beer or a vodka anyway. Either we have to remind the public through the TV screen or through the radio broadcast that your watch has hit the moon, man! You've got to get a drop again, your liver's asking for work! Tax increases are a great thing, and I am quite convinced that the Central Party Group will support this bill. Personally, I'm going to do it. But I will tell you honestly and frankly: the time is ripe for us to put everything together to improve our alcohol policy and improve the people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U964	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U965	Thank you very much. As I understand it, Priit Toobal would like the word to be a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U966	I warmly thank my colleague Aivar Riisalu, who, on two occasions in his speech, mentioned the draft that I have defended here in Parliament, the draft law prohibiting alcohol advertising, which aims to reduce the impact of alcohol advertising on consumers, especially young people and children's values and attitudes. Advertising aimed at the general public has a major impact on the formation of values. In my report, I presented figures from OECD countries on how the ban on alcohol advertising has had an impact on alcohol consumption. By banning both lean and strong alcohol advertising, alcohol consumption can be reduced by a third. This has also actually taken place in countries where alcohol advertising is banned, not to mention a reduction in road accidents and drowning deaths, which is often due to overdrinking. I am grateful to Aivar Riisalu that he is carrying this bill in his soul and is willing to speak in support of it. However, I am concerned that Parliament's Committee on Economic Affairs has not yet removed this draft from the drawer and does not want to discuss it with the opposition. It has always been pointed out that the Ministry of Social Affairs is working on a Green Paper that treats alcohol policy as a complex issue. I'm sure this is the way to do it, but how long can this green book be written?! It has not reached Parliament so far, and the problem is unresolved. Unfortunately, there is no Chair of the Economic Commission in this Chamber, but our group has also proposed in writing that this draft be removed from the drawer and that it be discussed again in committee. This is serious. Last year, the average Estonian citizen drank 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol, which is really too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U967	Thank you very much. It was a very powerful, meaningful and long line. Now we're going to the next call. Please, Valeri Korb! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U968	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! A small bill, but how much has been said about it. A few thoughts from me, too. The law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity is again, colleagues, on our table and again we are debating and arguing to finally make further changes to this law, which I think is very interesting. It is safe to say that in recent years this law has been one of the most dearest to our government, especially to the Minister of Finance. It is also safe to say that there is a small deficit in the state budget. Today we are talking about wine, beer, fermented beverages and alcoholic strength, by volume, hectolitres. I could mention other quite specific terms related to this draft, but let us leave them alone. A few months earlier, the same law was mentioned, but then, for example, the terms fuel oil, diesel fuel, lead gasoline, liquid combustibles, biofuels were not missing the word 'excise rate' from this line. Without it, there is no point in talking about amending this law. And even then you can't sneak away from the word when it comes to natural gas, packaging, tobacco products and electricity. We all know that these are areas of our daily lives. Whether it is possible to live without tobacco and alcohol products, everyone has an opinion on it. But without electricity and a warm room, it's quite impossible to live. There's a price to pay. That is what we know, and that is what our government knows, especially when there is another small hole in the state budget. Where are you going? You're gonna pay. On the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, it can be seen that the new excise duties on fuel will apply from 1 July 2012. Excise duties on motor fuel and natural gas also increased in July this year. The new rate of excise duty on unleaded petrol is EUR 400 per 1000 litres instead of the current EUR 360 and for diesel EUR 373 per 1000 litres instead of the current EUR 333. The excise duty rate on special fuel has risen to EUR 68 per 1000 litres instead of EUR 61, while the excise duty on natural gas has risen from EUR 10.9 to EUR 23.6. I would like to stress that the renewed rates of excise duty on alcohol will apply from 1 February 2012. Just think about that nine months ago, we corrected that law! The rate of excise duty on tobacco products was last fixed on 1 January 2012, but I would like to say to those who go to the store and sometimes buy cigarettes there, that there will be another increase in excise duty on 1 January 2013: EUR 47,6 per 1000 cigarettes will have to be paid instead of EUR 42. It must be said that a year ago the Ministry of Finance wrote that the minimum amount of excise duty to be paid in Estonia must be 90 euros per 1000 cigarettes by the end of 2017 at the latest. By the way, there's one more thing I want to talk about. On the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the excise duty rates of the Member States of the European Union are specified only in English. The rate of excise duty on electricity shall be EUR 4,47 per megawatt-hour. It's been long talked about in the last few days, and I don't want to stop at it anymore. I just want to repeat, even though I'm not declaring any major discovery that other prices will jump with the increase in electric excise duty. Now back to the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. I've been looking at the schedule for the increase in excise duty rates. The rule is that they will be introduced for one year, but this time for three: the graph will be known until 2016. The rate shall be increased by 5% each year. It is a good thing that those who are involved in its production also feel responsible for us, on the other hand, we will see that next year, the tax revenue from the cash base will have to be EUR 7 million, the year after next, 22 million in 2014, and then 40 million. This is practically a double annual increase. And here, of course, the question arises, especially when we read the sentence in the explanatory memorandum that excise duties on alcohol are being increased at the same rate as the overall increase in prices. The people are really going to have a difficult time when we are talking today about such an increase in prices. And another thought from the explanatory statement. Raising the rate of excise duty on alcohol can reduce alcohol consumption as it results in an increase in the price of alcohol. I fully agree that alcohol consumption is high in Estonia, I would say, very big problems. We drink too much. This is not my claim, our sources of information confirm that the drinking of Estonian residents is already self-destructive. In the case of 100% alcohol, last year, as we all know, an average of 10.2 litres per capita was consumed. That's a terrible number. And if we really want to stand up for public health, it is ridiculous to hope for help only by increasing the excise duty on alcohol. But more specifically, when we are discussing a second draft when we are talking about alcohol policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U969	Thank you very much, Mr Valeri Korb. Now, please, colleague of the speaker, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U970	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Isn't it interesting that we are now discussing the law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity for the tenth time in the last four years? In the case of a government that says that taxes are not being played, the amendment of one tax law has become unusually tight. Of course, excise legislation has been amended before 2009, but the pace has been particularly rapid since 2009. For example, on 20 February 2009, the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity was amended, which entered into force only a few months and ten days later, on 1 April 2009. It was then stipulated that the newly imposed electricity excise duty must have been used for the same purposes as the use of the money from environmental charges in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Environmental Charges Act. This regulation could have been in place for a short year, so it was said that electric excise could be used elsewhere. This law was subsequently amended on 18 June 2009 and became applicable as early as 1 July 2009, i.e. the law was amended with less than a month's notice. In the same year, the same excise law was amended for the third time, on 26 November 2009. It entered into force on 1 January 2010. In 2010, the law was amended again four times: for the first time on 27 January, it became effective on 1 March; for the second time on 22 April, it became effective on 1 January 2011 (a very long period of notice, taking into account the practice of amending the law); for the third time in October 2010 and for the fourth time in December 2010. Two amendments were made to the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act under discussion last year: in June this June amendment will apply on 1 January 2013 and again in December last year. So there's been a lot of changes. This year, this law was amended on 22 February. Aivar Riisalu asked why one law needs to be changed so closely. Why are steps not planned in advance? I think it is also interesting to monitor the rate at which one or the other excise duty will be increased. I would point out that, if the increase in excise duty on beer is spread over four years, then there is quite a lot of excise duty, which has been raised quite severely at the same time. There's no way to pass an electric excise on this day, which is also included in the title of this law. I would like to say in advance that the Central Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The background to the proposal is that this draft could also include a reduction in electricity excise duty of 4.5 times, to the European Union's minimum rate. When the electricity excise duty was put into effect on 1 January 2008, this excise duty had an environmental objective. Today, it simply fills the state budget. However, the increase in electricity prices will already benefit the country more next year, as a result of the increase in electricity prices, from VAT as well. It would certainly be time to reduce the excise duty on electricity to the European Union's minimum rate. To be brilliantly honest, that's why we're here ten minutes after three minutes discussing this bill. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U971	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U972	When it comes to excise rates, the government has shown exceptional gentleness with regard to so-called "infectious" excise duties, i.e. excise duties linked to the deterioration of human health. Alcohol and tobacco excises have been raised moderately, while, for example, heat and electricity excises have been raised much harder. Let us remind you that, for example, in 2009, the rate of excise duty on natural gas was 157 kroons per 1000 cubic metres, which is 10 euros, but it has now been raised to 23.45 euros per 1000 cubic metres, with an increase of more than twice. As mentioned earlier, we have EUR 4.47 per megawatt-hour of electricity. This is 4.47 times higher than the European Union demands. The same excise duty on beer does not rise at this rate at all. If in 2008 it was 64 kroons, then it is broadly 4.1 euros, then now it has been raised to 5.7 euros and the plan that we have on the table will be raised to 6 euros. The increase in excise duty has been spread over four years. Thus, alcohol control is more restrained. Various opinions have been received in previous speeches. Personally, I am convinced that excise duty on alcohol still has a bearing on consumption. On some points, I do not agree with the head of the Institute of Economics, Marje Josing, but in the case of alcohol. He has on several occasions come up with proposals on how to control the alcohol consumption of Estonians. He has said that they have been studying alcohol consumption since 1990. In 1990, an average of 6 litres of absolute alcohol per person was sold in Estonia, and by 2000 the volume increased to 10.37 litres. The higher the people's income, the more they drink. It has concluded that the increase in alcohol duty should take into account that the retail price of drinks should rise a little faster than the wages of residents and the prices of other goods. The price can have a strong impact on consumption. So the increase in alcohol duty that we are discussing today is not bad at all. The bad thing is that the same reasonableness is not shown in relation to the price of heat and electricity. I will say once again that today's night sitting could end if government departments were more reasonable in terms of reducing electricity excise duty and used the draft excise duty law in their hands to mitigate the increase in electricity prices for the following year. I thank you for your attention and will hand over the proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U973	Thank you. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U974	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of alcohol duty has now been twisted around here like a lukewarm soup for a while, but it doesn't hurt if I go over it a little bit. As far as excise duty increases are concerned, yes, of course we will. I also consider the work of doctoral student Indrek Saare of the University of Tartu to be very important, and I would point out that this work, which recommends increasing excise duties on alcohol, also recommends directing the resulting money to sport and health care. The other party in this debate is the producers of alcohol and they have their own position: they do not support high excise duties. Both positions should, of course, be taken into account, but we must decide which one we consider to be more important, either the opinion of scientists or the position of alcohol producers based on their own interests. There is no point in raising excise duty simply because of the increase. Maybe a couple of years ago, I did a TV show when the representatives of Estonian tobacco sellers approached me to talk about their problems via TV. Ida-Viru County was no longer able to sell excise, so-called legal cigarettes, because all the smoking stuff came from behind the Narva River. You don't really want this situation! So the idea itself is very good, but there is much more to be done here. In fact, every person understands that life is so much fun and nice as long as we have money to invest in our less or more meaningful hobbies, whether it's hunting or motor sports, water skiing or flying. However, the truth is that many people in Estonia still have the opportunity to deal with only one hobby, which to a large extent is nothing more than drinking. I also think that the use of the money collected by raising the tax should be carefully considered where to place it. When it comes to solving a drinking problem, it should be done in a complex way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U975	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U976	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy members of the Riigikogu in the hall and in front of televisions! We are currently discussing draft law 268, which bears the name of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. If we look at excise duties on alcohol in the context of this draft, the question arises, whose opinion should be relied on even more than that of Lauri Beekmann, the head of the Community Non-Alcoholic Estonia. He has stressed that 2.5 million people die a year because of alcohol. In his article, Lauri Beekmann builds on the UN report on non-communicable diseases in 2011, according to which alcohol consumption is one of the four main risk factors. Other factors are unhealthy food, low mobility and tobacco. These four risk factors are responsible for 63% of the world's deaths. Alcohol manufacturers say that they produce these legal drinks as long as there is enough demand and confirm that they only promote cultural drinking. However, the fact is that 2.5 million people die a year from alcohol in the world. In other words, according to WHO, alcohol is a greater cause of death than, for example, AIDS, tuberculosis or violence. In order for producers' profits to be preserved, they must constantly find new ones in place of dying customers. Thus, drinking traditions must be maintained in different cultures and societies, so that young people who grow up start drinking as parents do. To this end, a massive marketing machine is working to promote alcohol consumption and to instill the understanding that this neurotoxic cancer addict is an integral and normal part of everyday life. At the same time, it is known that alcohol is a pleasure in every society that consumes it. In addition to these deaths, alcohol causes an almost innumerable number of various losses, ranging from vandalism to the need for special social care. Unfortunately, we are all jointly paying for all of this, or in fact we are not able to cover all of these costs. Do we dare answer the question of how good it is to protect and care for children who have been neglected by alcoholic parents in our country? What can we offer alcohol - addicted pregnant women who can still fear for the health of their unborn child and come to ask for help? How are addicts treated and rehabilitated? These questions concern part of the serious problems related to alcohol, which our country simply does not have enough money to deal with or to deal with to the extent necessary. These are budget gaps that need to be filled, and, of course, the first and most direct source for this is alcohol excise duty. Let us imagine for a moment what the price of alcohol should be if we stop paying off this social damage and put all this expense on the price of alcohol. Absurd? But the role of alcohol and the alcohol industry in our lives and society is just as absurd. We have begun to view as normal something that is obviously not normal. Producers point to the risk of an illegal market for each price increase. This threat is real and must be addressed by the state and the authorities. However, legal alcohol producers should not try to give the impression that there is a legal and underground market like night and day, two completely opposite phenomena: one tax-paying and job-creating, responsible industry, the other criminal business. Yes, of course, dealing with secret alcohol is criminal, but let us not forget that the main cause of the problem of alcohol throughout society is the impact of these drinks on people. After all, it does not matter whether the alcohol is legally produced in Russia and brought to Estonia secretly or produced legally in Estonia, the effect is one. We cannot talk about health or safety for any alcoholic beverage. The illegal market, a small part of which is particularly dangerous and without any control of the liquids prepared in the cellars, requires vigorous intervention, but in doing so, the business promised by the state cannot be set aside for some special pedestal. Illegal and legal business is actually intertwined in its own way and represent two sides of one coin. In our society, there is legal industry for the promotion and advertising of alcohol, and thus also for the shaping of drinkers from a growing generation. With their advertising, product design and a huge sales network, they are attracting new customers. When some of these people experience serious difficulties in life, becoming unemployed and losing their social status, they start looking for cheaper alcohol underground. The secret market feeds on the fruits of the legal market. At the same time, tax-paying producers use the secret market as a trump card to combat measures to reduce their business income. September 9th is the world day of fetal alcohol syndrome. The symbolic ninth day of the month reminds us that nine months of pregnancy a woman should give up alcohol completely on behalf of her unborn child. Unfortunately, not everyone can or is unaware of it, and therefore, about one child in 100 is born with a birth defect caused by alcohol. Its most severe form, FASD, is estimated to be present in one to three children per thousand births, according to conservative estimates. Of course, these figures are influenced by the quantities of alcohol consumed by the individual people and, overall, by the scale of the problem. Based on these statistics, it would be expected that there will be 15/45 FASD-diagnosed children in Estonia a year and about 150 children with alcohol-induced birth defects. In this light, it should not be forgotten that Estonia is at the forefront of the world's countries in terms of alcohol consumption, and that is why we must pay particular attention to the 268 SE procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U977	Thank you very much. Now, please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U978	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Overconsumption of alcohol is a serious and very worrying problem, directly or indirectly suffered by all people. Alcohol consumption causes many illnesses and health problems, including heart disease, accidents, injuries, and mental behavioral disorders. On average, over 10 litres of pure alcohol was consumed per resident in Estonia last year, which is 5.7% more than the year before. This is equal to a bottle of 51 half-litres of vodka or 408 bottles of beer with a strength of 5%. In reality, this figure is even misleadingly low, because the amount of alcohol that has been drunk is divided by the number of all Estonian residents, including adults with abstinence, for example. According to Emor, 70 to 90% of the market volume is consumed by weekly drinkers, who account for 10 to 25% of the adult population. According to a study carried out by the Estonian Institute of Conjuncture, 75% of people agree that we have too much to drink, but only 2% thought that about themselves. 56% of those surveyed considered their alcohol consumption to be low, 29% to be moderate, and 13% confirmed that they do not drink alcohol at all. If the result of this study were to be realistic, we would live in almost a perfect country. Unfortunately, when looking at the quantities of tarbitur, it is clear that real life is unfortunately not so rosy. The most common alcoholic beverage is, as we know, beer. This iodine was converted into pure alcohol last year by 4.1 litres, or 164 bottles of 5 per cent volts of beer per person. Strong alcohol, calculated in absolute alcohol, is also popular: 3.7 litres per capita. World Health Organisation experts estimate that 6 litres of pure alcohol per capita is a critical limit, with a higher amount causing significant harm to public health. In the worst times in Estonia, this norm has been twice as much, and last year 70% more was consumed than was considered dangerous. This is not a pseudo-problem, therefore, but a serious challenge for the Estonian state and the Estonian people as a whole. Under the pressure of the non-profit association Alcohol-free Estonia and also the Centre Party, a ban on the sale of alcohol at night was introduced in the Riigikogu since 14 July 2008, which has certainly contributed to reducing alcohol consumption. However, it is clear that a time limit alone will not solve this problem. The desired result has also not been achieved by the quite liberal advertising restrictions in force. Alcohol advertising is prohibited in advertising law from 7 a.m. until 9 a.m. At the same time, according to Emor, minors watch most television between 19.30 and 23:00, which means that alcohol ads reach them as well. Dear Chairman, may I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U979	Sure, there's always time for alcohol. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U980	Thank you. The Central Party of the Riigikogu therefore supports the total ban on alcohol advertising and submitted a bill to this effect last year. Our aim is to ensure, above all, that children and young people are protected against this advertising by stricter restrictions on alcohol advertising and to reduce the consumption of alcohol in general. I think it is particularly important to focus on minors because, despite the current law, drinking is a popular form of entertainment for people under 18 years of age. According to the Centre Party's proposal, a total ban on alcohol advertising would be imposed on television and radio as well as on outdoor advertising. The impact of advertising on consumers, especially young people and children, is very significant, as it serves alcohol consumption as a well-accepted and normal activity in society. No advertisement focuses on the many negative effects of alcohol; drinking is shown as a pleasant and safe pastime. But it's not safe. Alcohol advertising masks a wide range of health risks and negative consequences and also reduces the impact of prevention and health education. Limiting alcohol advertising is an internationally recognised measure in a complex alcohol policy. The current situation in Estonia requires new and certainly more effective solutions. We can mention Norway, where all alcohol advertising has been banned, including in print media, radio, television, as well as outdoor advertising. And in Norway 35% less alcohol is consumed than in Estonia. The links between youth alcohol consumption and advertising have also been convincingly proven. Five minutes of watching alcohol advertising greatly increases the consumption of liquor. The effects of alcohol advertising on young people are also extremely long lasting. I am therefore in the same position as the head of the Institute of Economics: the price of alcoholic beverages must rise faster than for other goods, not at the same pace as the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic provides. Of course, price increases must not be so high as to increase the share of the secret market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U981	Thank you very much, Mr Jüri Ratas. Colleagues, Kaia Iva, would you like a word with a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U982	Thank you. I would like to have a speech on the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U983	Please, two minutes on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U984	Thank you. It is certainly an important draft in the design of excise policy, but I have a proposal for the Commission to resolve some inconsistencies in the speeches that have been made here in the course of the procedure. During a careful hearing, we heard that the previous speaker, Jüri Ratas, said that the Estonian people consume an average of 10 litres of absolute alcohol per person, Heimar Lenk stated in his earlier speech that 'we are now drinking 12 litres of absolute alcohol'. It would be necessary to clarify what are the right facts and who are the 'we' who are currently drinking 12 litres of absolute alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U985	Thank you very much. Kadri Simson, what's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U986	Kaia Iva raised the problem. Indeed, 10.2 liters per resident is drunk, if only adults are considered, provided that children do not drink.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U987	Excuse me, Mr Kadri! Your name wasn't mentioned. George Ratas should have asked for a reply. But since I feel like everyone's been able to step up and talk about alcohol duty, I'm gonna finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are three amendments to this draft law, starting with the first one. The first amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lemberi, Rannar Vasiliyev, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli and Urve Palo. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U988	Thank you. As it seems to me that the proposers have gone to bed in their beauty sleep, I ask them to vote on this amendment, but before the vote, I ask for ten minutes' break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U989	Thank you very much. Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U990	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by members of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lember, Rannar Vassiliev, Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Kütt, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli and Urve Palo. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! 1 member of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. [[in the applause room]] The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 is tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lemberi, Rannar Vassilyev, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli and Urve Palo. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U991	Thank you! I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U992	Break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U993	I shall put to the vote Amendment 2 tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lember, Rannar Vassiliev, Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Kütt, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli and Urve Palo. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! 2 Riigikogu delegates voted in favour, 34 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Please sit in your seat! [[Laughter.]] Amendment 3, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U994	I ask for a vote on the third amendment and I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U995	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U996	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, and we now have to vote on it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U997	Thank you! Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U998	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U999	I think ten minutes is enough for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U1000	Really? Break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-21_U1001	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 37 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 268 is complete.
