ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 19 September, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister for Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 90 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, none 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U2	We are going to the agenda items for today. The first point is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Mr Kajar Lemberi, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U3	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have a draft decision on the table today, which we have been discussing since April. Its first two points look like this: '1. Amend the decision of the Riigikogu of 5 May 2011 to set up a special committee on state budget control (RT III, 09.05.2011, 3) and appoint Tarmo Tamm as a member of the special committee on state budget control and Olga Sõtnik as an alternate member. 2. To exclude Lembit Kaljuvee as an alternate member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. ' From the background, the draft 217 submitted by the Centre Party Group on 18 April. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 12 June and the first reading was completed. The deadline for tabling amendments was 26 June. No amendments were received within the deadline. After the first reading, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 11 September when we made some linguistic clarifications. The Constitutional Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be referred to second reading today and adopted as a decision of 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U4	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. As there were no amendments, we can go to the final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, to the final vote, I will put draft 217 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu, no votes against and 6 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U5	The next item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu amending the "Constitution of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. I would like to ask once again for a presentation of Mr Kajar Lember, member of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U6	Hello again! This draft Decision concerns an amendment to the decision to set up a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act. The draft proposes to amend the decision of the Riigikogu of 5 May 2011 to set up a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and appoint Peeter Laurson as a member of the special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and replace Ms Andres Jalak as alternate member. The background to the draft proposal is that the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance submitted a draft decision on 28 May, the first reading of which took place on 12 June. The first reading was completed. No proposals were received by the deadline for tabling amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this on 11 September. No changes were made beyond the linguistic changes. The Constitutional Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu Board refer the draft to second reading on 18 September, i.e. today, and adopt the draft as 238 decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U7	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. As there are no amendments, we will go back to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft 238 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 1 abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to the third item on today's agenda, which is the report on the activities of the Estonian Development Fund in 2011 and 2012 and the presentation of the new strategy for the Development Fund. I will show you how this item is discussed. First of all, the presentation is presented by Tõnis Arro, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund, whose presentation lasts up to 30 minutes. Questions can then be asked to the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to the rapporteur. Then there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups take the floor. Please speak with Tõnis Arro, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund! Let's hear your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U9	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. It's an honor to be here. I got here early so I could freak out, but I didn't really. The Development Fund has, as we know, been set up by the Riigikogu, so my annual speech here is kind of like a son coming home who comes and tells us what he's done in the meantime. As usual, it's a bit awkward. My father-mother asks me what's new, but my son doesn't know what to say. That's why I've prepared a proper presentation. Because the file's loose from the wrong place, you'll see the important issues that come up today. Now the start of the file opened. What am I going to talk about? I want to remind you what this development fund is, and I intend to talk more about the future. As you know, I have been in the position of head of the Development Fund only since April. The annual report, which is available to everyone online, applies to last year. The reporting period covers the time of the previous Bureau, which is why I am not talking about it so much. All the time I have been in this position has gone by that, in addition to dealing with some awkward economic issues, I have been working on the finalisation of our new strategy, which has been approved by the Council of the Development Fund and which has been discussed on several occasions. That's mostly what I want to talk about. Previously on "The Development Fund": a few words about what it is. You remember that, of course, but sometimes it's good to talk about things that are clear. Our mission, which is prescribed by law, is to contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. It has also been said that we should do this in the most effective way possible. The keywords that come from the law are before you: we should contribute to the creation of jobs with high added value, the emergence of innovative enterprises, positive economic changes and the growth of entrepreneurship in society. To this end, the law has prescribed us two main areas of activity, which we are working on. These are monitoring and growth programmes and investment activities. I am talking more about investment activities, not about monitoring and growth programmes, because monitoring and growth programmes are our new strategic focus, which I will later address in detail. So when we talk about what we have done so far, I am talking about what has happened in the area of investment. You have before you the logos of our portfolio companies. We have invested EUR 8 million so far; we currently have a ready-for-investment second investment fund of EUR 12.5 million. In fact, the first payments have also been made as some ongoing investments. It is important to understand why we do this, why we invest. In fact, not to earn money, it would not require a public investment fund. We invest to boost the market and overcome the market failure. What is this market failure? If you look at the scheme on the screen, you will see that in the development of companies, especially in the development of technology companies and innovative companies (called the start-up in a foreign language) there are broadly several major phases. First of all, there is a time when they spend money and when most of them fail they are the "seed phase" and the start-up phase. Then there's a growth phase when they start selling something and making money. When we look at the private market, at investment firms, at venture capital, at investment banks, we see that they are operating in this stage of growth. They are interested in companies that already earn money, who are already on the market and are growing. But none of them wants to invest in companies in this phase, where the company means two people, who have an acute presentation material and an excellent idea on their laptop. That's the market failure. If there were no investors such as the Development Fund and angel investors investing with us (these are wealthy private individuals who decide that they can invest small amounts in a company that does not yet exist and is likely to fail), these companies would not be created or grow. This analogy of seed is quite fitting in itself. You know that each plant grows many times more seeds than it needs for reproduction, because most seeds never grow into plants. For example, even 90% of pine seeds may germinate, but almost none of them will become a small plant in the forest under other trees unless a caring forester comes, doesn't make lighting cutting, and doesn't cut other trees off. But it's even safer to plant the seeds in the plantation, then the plant grows up to 70% of the seeds. In fact, a development fund investment company, now called SmartCap, could be compared to a nursery. We pick up seeds, we make them grow under controlled conditions, we water and support them, and when they grow up, we sell them to someone who makes them grow in a more fertile environment. We do this not to make money, but to have forests and parks where children can play, and to breathe the oxygen produced by these trees. In fact, the oxygen produced by trees is comparable to the money produced by companies. We don't get money from anywhere but companies. This is something that is self-evident for entrepreneurs, but in society in general it is often forgotten when speaking about entrepreneurs. When we look specifically at what we are doing in our investment activities, apart from investing in these early-stage companies, we are also working on reviving the market. By continuing the tree school analogy, we could say that we convince people that gardening is cool and that they could try it. Among the market development measures, this slide has two logos: EstVCA, the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association and FinanceEstonia. These are two activities initiated with our participation or co-participation. On the right-hand side of the slide are things that are covered by the development of the environment, in which we participate or what we do ourselves. SeedBooster is our own incubator, where we can make some seeds grow in a controlled manner. But there are other things that work well in the market, like Garage48 or Brain Hunting. We cooperate with these activities and support all kinds of things that make up this start-up ecosystem where small innovative companies could grow. Here in the middle of the slide is Startup Wise Guys. This is a new venture where the Development Fund is also inside as an investor. This is a accelerator where start-ups are selected for short periods of time and are given all the support they can get in a few months' time to get a good investment and go to the market. Our investment policy is as follows: we must never take a majority stake, we always invest together with a private investor, and our investment period is short, indicatively five years. Here are some examples. I'm not gonna talk about them all. If any of them are interested, I can talk. Does anyone care about any of these companies? Cleveron is a thing that a lot of people have probably used. In the beginning, these mailboxes were under the name SmartPOST, and now the mailboxes are sold, but the technology and development remained in Estonia. The new mailbox takes less space, as it may be 10 meters high. There's a hatch and there's a robot in the mailbox that brings a package to that hatch. This technology is currently available in our portfolio company. A service based on this technology is being sought to sell to foreign markets, and it is quite successful. Modesat Communications is our most successful case. I don't know if anyone noticed, but last night, the stock exchange came from an American company that bought our shares in Modesat Communications. We weren't supposed to say that before. This is our most successful case. One might say that a tree grown with our help has been moved to a very good environment, it has been replanted in the Valley of Silicon. But it's important that the staff and the development center stay here. This company is also expanding, which is very important. I'm not gonna talk about all the other companies. I'll mention Now! Innovations LLC. It's a company selling mobile parking technology in the world. For example, Moscow's parking arrangements will soon be based on this technology. It is important to realise that our investment has been successful. At this early stage, where most companies fail, we have earned money, which is relatively extraordinary. Our portfolio today is worth more than what we have invested in it or how much we have invested in it. The most important thing is that we have involved the first very important foreign investor who has acquired the company that we and our partners have developed. All of this we want to do even better, but here is one restriction: what can we do to have a good number of companies from which to choose from when investing? If the Silicon Valley investment companies are going through dozens or hundreds of business plans every day, we have a couple of dozens of companies whose lives we monitor to see if they are mature for investment even as early as we invest. The problem is that Estonians do not want to become entrepreneurs very much. Graduates rather dream of getting a rewarding job. Think about what would happen if a young person came home, says that they had a entrepreneurship lecture at school and that he wants to become an entrepreneur. What would his mother or father tell him? Most of the time, maybe the baby's trying to get a decent job. It's sad that we're not very enterprising. We are about half as enterprising as people in the European Union on average. We have been thinking in the Development Fund that this small pipe, which has our so-called stock companies, is not enough, but we need to build one of the largest funnels in which to attract a great many people. We must launch a growth programme called 'Entrepreneur Estonia'. This is a growth programme in which we see three main components: a tiger leap of entrepreneurship, a business coaching programme, and a broader entrepreneurial approach to monitoring and communication. First of all, the entrepreneurship of the tiger jump. This double end tube means that people go in one end and companies come out of the other. At first small, later hopefully larger, some will hopefully also be innovative, technology start-ups. If we bring together all the people who could be interested in entrepreneurship in Estonia and give them a basic idea of entrepreneurship, we believe that there could be 100,000 such people in seven years. It's just not realistic anymore. These 100,000 we could get together, especially given that if we were to offer this opportunity to all seniors, maybe half of them would come, if all students were to come, maybe a fifth, but if we were to offer this opportunity to all members of the Defence Forces, most of them would still come, because there would be an order. That's how we get together 50%, the other 50%, or 50,000, of public trainings, on the market. We are thinking here of a wake-up meeting type of day training. What can this achieve? We are convinced and many studies confirm that the main obstacles to becoming an entrepreneur are nowhere else than in a human head. People have the wrong idea that you have to have a lot of knowledge or a lot of money to become an entrepreneur and you have to spend a lot of money before you can make money. These prejudices can be attacked and eliminated by one-day training. People can be persuaded that this is not true. Suppose there are 100,000 people attending these trainings for seven years. Most of them will probably not become entrepreneurs, but will simply leave training with a better understanding of what entrepreneurship is. Perhaps they will have a different view of their child when it comes to becoming an entrepreneur. They hopefully say it would be awesome and ask how they can support him. But 5,000 people may be leaving the training with the idea that they might try. They believe that those people who are entrepreneurs are not special people, they are not too much smarter, but they are the same as others and others can try. This is actually the first step towards becoming an entrepreneur: I can try too! The second step is when the company is established and the first sale is made. The third step is when a person lives in his or her own company, which is his or her main income. The fourth step is to hire a tenth employee. Then the company becomes a professional company, and it can become bigger. As you know from statistics, most Estonian entrepreneurs never reach the fourth stage. Most Estonian companies have 1 to 9 employees. The sadder story is that most people who think that they can be entrepreneurs never do it will never get to the second step. This is where the second key component of our program comes into play, the business coaches. We have a plan to offer all those people who want to try entrepreneurship a chance to get a business coach. It is an experienced entrepreneur who may have already set up several businesses and who has some time, will, sense of mission, maybe a little vanity and other motives, but anyway, he has a little time to use to develop young people. We give him a special qualification and order him professional work to the extent that he wants to devote to this activity, it will be 500 or 1,000 hours a year, or a quarter or half of his working hours. We have calculated that if every person who wants to try entrepreneurship were to be set aside by a business coach who has time to meet him systematically, 10 to 20 times in six months or a year, this should lead to the creation of about a thousand typical businesses that would not otherwise be born if the people who started entrepreneurship were 5,000. As I said, the majority of Estonian companies have 1 to 9 employees. According to statistics, each of these people produces EUR 16000 of added value per year. It's a very small amount, but that's the way it is. If there are thousands of typical companies with owners themselves and a few employees, the value added that will be added to the economy every year is EUR 100 million. If, in addition to these thousands, a hundred successful technology start-ups are born, where the value added per employee is comparable to the value added of Estonian large companies, which are more than 30000 euros, then another 100 million euros will come from here. This growth programme is our strategically central undertaking in the next period. The main results are as follows: We have roughly 95,000 people who understand entrepreneurship and who radiate a positive attitude to society towards entrepreneurship, which is very important. There will be a thousand new companies and a hundred successful start-ups, which will make it much better for us to choose where to invest. Finally, it is not insignificant that 200 million added value is added to our economy every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U10	Thank you very much to the waitress for a very graphic and interesting presentation! We're going to the questions now. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U11	Thank you very much for this interesting presentation. I, too, believe that the Development Fund is moving in the right direction. In the previous period, the Development Fund was rather a project of a business and political elite, where a simple person did not have much to do with it. The movement to the grassroots level is very correct. My question is this: can we look at an earlier project in Estonia or organisations similar to the development fund in the Western countries as examples of this programme? Has anything like this been done before that could be learned, or is it going to a pretty unknown area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U12	Thank you. This whole program is comparable to an iPad that has no new thing or invention in it. We, too, have not come up with any of these things ourselves, but all these things are business coaches, this type of training, outreach, monitoring programmes, surveys are available in the world. In our opinion, the value of this programme in putting it all together is one system and systematic implementation. This is new for us and for Estonia at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U13	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U14	Thank you very much. Thank you for your interesting presentation. You said you would receive dozens of applications, not hundreds or thousands, which might be a desirable goal. What is the proportion of applications you receive and those you accept? Have you ever felt any moral obligation in satisfying your requests that maybe you should do a little price reduction, and you have come to meet someone who doesn't actually make it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U15	This proportion can be about 1: 10. But it is not very precise, because most of the requests are addressed, which are out of the question of compliance with the law. People just don't know what they can turn to us at all. When we talk about the applications that we are going to consider, this relationship may also be different. We're targeting a few dozen companies that we're monitoring. They could all be considered if their development was such that we could seriously start considering investing in them, that is, when we submit their investment request to the Committee of Experts. We have an independent panel of experts to review our investments before we do them. Almost all the requests we have made to the Committee of Experts have gone through.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U16	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U17	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I think it was quite certainly the most clear, imaginary and visionary presentation of the development fund that has so far taken place in this Chamber. These are the hearings we've been doing here every year. Maybe some of the figures were a bit optimistic, but then again, who doesn't set the bar high, it doesn't get anything. The Development Fund has been criticised for these hearings in previous years, perhaps for details, perhaps also for the big things, but there has been a lack of vision. Then more of a question has come about the development fund's own costs, the ability to find the right projects, investments in cat and dog Facebooks, investments that have failed at all, etc. Are you now planning to make changes to the governance and so-called existence of the Development Fund? The vision was very good. Does that also apply to you, within the so-called development fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U18	Yeah, we're still trying to keep up with the times and change. A number of new people have come to the Development Fund and there are more coming. We try to bring an entrepreneurial spirit into our home. If there are enterprising people who may not be able to devote themselves entirely to our work, we use them to the extent they can contribute. This brings other people to the Development Fund. More generally, the amendment to the Development Fund could be described as the main beneficiary of our activities by a future or existing undertaking. In the past, it seems to me that the main beneficiary of the development fund should be a decision-maker, a public official or a politician. I don't think that's the right approach. In all the areas where we are currently operating, we are trying to find where we can launch a growth programme to help the current or future entrepreneur. If we achieve some kind of generalisation in this process, we will of course write it down and politicians or top officials can use it in politics, make laws or take action on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U19	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U20	Dear Mr. Arro! I, too, thank you for a very interesting presentation. I understand that, under your leadership, the Development Fund will be more initiative-- it will not only respond to other initiatives. In this connection, I have the question: do you already have a point on the map with a certain degree of retardation called Narva, or are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U21	That's the right question. Thank you. I was trying to show the map of Estonia here with the idea that we believe that we should target the whole of Estonia. I think it would be wrong to say that entrepreneurship means only the IT sector and is located only in Tallinn. The majority of Estonian entrepreneurship is really located in Tallinn, if we look at the value produced, but if we look at the absolute number of companies, that is not the case. When we talk about the ICT sector, it is certainly a very important part of entrepreneurship, but if we look at its contribution to society, it may be just a few percent. I was talking about the big wake-up meetings we want to do. We believe that they should not only take place in Tallinn, but also in Tartu, Pärnu, Narva and Jõhvi, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U22	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U23	Thank you. Good waitress! I saw that according to Wikipedia, the Riigikogu is the owner of the development fund. In a small dividend hope, I ask my question. At the same time, I hope that there may be a fingernail in Wikipedia and I do not need to change my declaration of economic interests. But the thought of you investing with no hope of profit came out of your report. You have pointed out that you have invested 8 million and that the portfolio value is 9.9 million, and it is like a miracle, or that it was born contrary to your will. You also said you were investing on an equal footing with private investors. I know a little bit about those specifically involved. They want a profit. I hope you want a profit, too. In fact, these models are not quite like knowingly going to losses. These one or two projects, which will succeed, will have to cover the losses of these eight failed projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U24	That's a good point. When I made it look like we didn't want to make a profit, it was the wrong impression. Yes, we do, but that is not our primary objective. The main objective, using the forestry analogy, is that the forest grows and we can breathe oxygen. That is the main objective. If we make money along with it, it's fine. Today, it has gone exceptionally in this sense. Most of us who operate at this stage are more likely to lose money. We've been having a wonderful time in this sense, I have to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U25	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, too, thank you for this presentation of the public investment fund and I wish you every success in its implementation. Here's what I'd like to ask you. Have you, having been in charge for a short time, met with representatives of the EAS? Do you see a joint or a duplication here, or do you think that both are going in the right direction and along their own path?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U27	Thank you. EAS is our first important cooperation partner. I have, of course, met with the heads of the EAS, there has been a joint meeting of the EAS Council and the Development Fund Council. These contacts are permanent and ongoing. As far as duplication is concerned, it is not here. None of the things I described in my growth program are EAS doing right now. We are simply proposing to start doing these things in addition to what the EAS is doing now, also working with start-ups. These activities complement each other very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U28	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U29	Thank you. I, too, thank you for your presentation, although at times I felt that when I arrived at the Riigikogu, I should no longer need to explain such simple things so easily. But here's my question. How are you satisfied with your level of capitalisation? Does the state provide you with enough resources to implement your ambitious plans or how much more money would you need to work normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U30	Our main problem is that we do not know how much money we have, and we have to start explaining every year from scratch that we need money to do our job. I don't think that's normal. When we are talking about a growth programme, this, of course, cannot be financed by our operating costs. This would require three to four million Structural Funds funds a year. We hope that this amount will be planned for the next period. But what does capitalization compare to? When we talk about venture capital, here, of course, we are going to fall short of Finland several times, but we are also going to be a little behind Latvia and Lithuania, which are investing in early stage. We cannot be very satisfied with this. As far as operational expenditure is concerned, if it is right that EUR 1.2 million will be allocated to the operational expenditure of the Development Fund for the next budgetary period, that is the amount that we will manage. I don't mean to say it's too much, but if we live austerity, we can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U31	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U32	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, For my part too, thank you very much for your presentation and your visions for the future. The Committee on Economic Affairs visited the Development Fund last week and we could mainly address growth programmes. But neither today nor then were the effects of the external environment on the Estonian economy. I mean developments in European markets, America, China, at all in Asia. As the new director of the fund, how do you see Estonia linking up with the whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U33	Of course, Estonia does not exist on its own. The company in which we are considering or where we are investing must have some potential in the foreign market. Of course, we are following closely what is happening in the economy around us. There's no way we can ignore it. At the same time, we must ensure that the people of Estonia are independent of foreign markets. They can't be completely independent, of course, but they should be able to handle themselves. Perhaps what we want to do at the heart of this objective is primarily aimed at.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U34	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U35	Thank you. Good waitress! I was impressed by the ambitious figures at the end of your presentation, which reflected people's involvement and information about entrepreneurship. Have you thought about how your ideas could be integrated or linked to entrepreneurship education programmes in basic schools and upper secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U36	Thank you. That is a very correct question. At present, entrepreneurship education is offered in schools as an optional subject; 140 schools are ready to do so. We have looked at what they are teaching, and we are convinced that basically this is the original idea, or the provision of entrepreneurial training, to provide distorted economic education. There is nothing to do here but help these teachers and schools by preparing better entrepreneurship teaching materials and offering better cases. Every entrepreneurship teacher knows very well that if he wants to conduct a business lecture, he can instantly download Harvard cases about Bill Gates or Steve Jobs, but the story of an ordinary Estonian entrepreneur that is professionally prepared is very difficult for him to find. Preparing such stories, making case studies out of them, maybe making some little video footage would be something we could help entrepreneurship teachers who currently do not really have any preparation or experience for this job. A social teacher may be a very good teacher, but if he has not studied entrepreneurship himself and has no experience, then his education, as well as his textbook, is more economical. This training cannot then be very effective. We really want to contribute to this. We are about to start this activity with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U37	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, In your presentation, the words "Entrepreneur spirit" sounded on several occasions. We know that entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurial spirit are associated with the risk of failure. Failure is viewed very differently from one country to another. Here, a positive example is always brought to the United States, where a person can start several times, but no one can beat him down for that. It would be interesting to know your assessment of how Estonia is currently in the process of promoting an entrepreneurial spirit after failure. I hope you understand my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U39	Thank you. That's a very good question. I don't think this attitude is too good if you don't say it's pretty bad. Failures are not accepted. A person who's gone bankrupt isn't considered a hero who tried, but a loser. It is very difficult for him to return to the market. We have initiated Estonia's participation in an international research project Global Entrepreneurship Monitor. This is a business survey conducted in 57 countries. One of the components under investigation there is also the fear of failure, which is a very important indicator of becoming an entrepreneur. We'll get this data together by the end of the year and the Estonian study report, then I'll talk about it. But personal experiences, impressions and observations as well as primary data show that the fear of failure is too great. The attitude towards failure does not favour entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U40	Thank you. Please, Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U41	Thank you. Good waitress! You said, in answer to one of the previous questions, that you see Estonia as your area of activity and are ready to invest outside larger centres. Is there any good example of a successful investment outside Tallinn? Do you have any idea what to do to make such good ideas come from small places?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U42	In fact, it doesn't matter where the company is physically and where the two boys with laptops are sitting. For us, the only restriction is that the company must be registered in Estonia. In our incubator or accelerator there are several companies that have come here from outside Estonia. I have no examples to give today, but where these companies are located really does not matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U43	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U44	Thank you. In the current situation, most of the added value created by start-ups goes abroad. In Estonia, these companies are unable to make money and move to an investor in America or England, create jobs and pay taxes, which are unfortunate. The Development Fund is doing a commendable job in developing the start-up system. But are there also plans to work with investors to consider investments in start-ups alongside real estate agencies, especially given that the presentation showed that the return is fully realistic? Do you have any specific plans here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U45	There are concrete plans, as well as concrete achievements. For example, Startup Wise Guys, an accelerator where we're one of ten investors. The other nine are Estonian investors, who five years ago did not even think that they could invest in some start-up. This is a concrete example and there are other examples. All those investors who invest with us have started to invest in the start-up phase and start-up phase, and they have never done so before. Now from this problem, if we grow one company to be very interesting, an American investor will buy the company or its core stake. Indeed, the headquarters of these companies will mostly be located in Boston or another such city. Our hope is that it will happen as happened yesterday when Modesat was sold: the development centre will remain in Estonia and there will be plenty of high-wage, highly skilled and high-value-added jobs, with employees' salaries paid here and taxes paid here. Another hope we have is that if an Estonian investor who we help to get into the wings of the wind or an Estonian entrepreneur goes to Silicon Valley with his company and gets a big investment there, he will still leave something of it in Estonia, maybe the company's development centre, but maybe he will bring something back from the investment. We are working to create companies where it would be interesting to invest. Indeed, if the entrepreneur is in Silicon Valley, he must have some reason to invest in Estonia. This environment just needs to be so attractive and nice. Right now, we have a little bit of fame. Estonia is spoken of as an interesting start-up country (Estonian Mafia and Estonian start-ups in the world). The image of Estonia is very common in these circles, which is perhaps a little better than reality, but we must take advantage of it and try to help ourselves to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U46	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would also like to thank you for your good and entrepreneurial presentation. But my question concerns the internal evaluation of the performance of the Development Fund. How will you analyse the effectiveness of the Fund? As a new leader, are you planning on perhaps making it a little more public?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U48	When we are talking about two core activities, the performance of investments is very clearly measured by whether we are able to attract co-investors and whether companies will survive. If we have invested in 16 companies and only two of them have failed so far, this is a very good result. As far as the other side is concerned, such as the growth programme that I have just described, its effectiveness is measurable at every step of the way. I very much hope that we will be able to launch a pilot project next year, and in a year's time, when I'm back here, I can talk about the results of this project, how many people went to our day-to-day trainings, how many of them started thinking about their own business and how many started it. Yes, I would like to measure all the results very accurately and talk about them in public.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U49	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U50	Thank you. Good waitress! Thank you for your meaningful presentation. You have invested EUR 8 million. How many jobs have been created for this EUR 8 million? If you have a choice, where would you invest, in a company where more money comes from, or in a company where more jobs can be created?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U51	I'm indebted to the number of jobs right now. Usually the start-ups have a dozen or fewer employees, their team is small at first. Our investment policy is very strict with the law. I introduced them earlier: this company must have an innovative product or service, it must have very great potential and it must have the potential to produce a high added value product or service. When we talk about technology companies, a successful enterprise in this area can have an added value of EUR 100000 per employee or more. We must see such potential in this company, that is the main thing. Of course, if the company becomes successful, we think that there may be 30, 40, 50 or several hundred employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U52	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Indeed, the development of Estonian human resources, the teaching of the basic truths of entrepreneurialism and the training of entrepreneurship in people are worth recognising and noting as an objective. It also stands out for your speech on behalf of the earlier development fund compared to the speeches in this Chamber. Nevertheless, I would like to ask what these clear advantages are. Why should we finance everything that the Development Fund does, from public money, or what are the plans to attract more and more private money? If it is possible to make 10 million out of an investment of 8 million, it is not too high a return in venture capital business, but nevertheless the result is positive. Why don't you also open up plans to involve more and more private money in the activities of the Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U54	More and more private money can be mobilised if more public money is invested. It's paradoxical, but that's the way it is. If we look at successful countries that have very strongly stimulated their start-up system, such as Israel, we will see that this is exactly what has happened. Public money is invested with private money, and private investors are offered very favourable conditions for investing together with public money. If we look at what the Development Fund has done, we will see that we have not made any investment where a private investor would not have invested just as much. But we have invested in such a risk stage that a private investor alone would not have put money there under any circumstances. If we had more money to invest, we would invest more and we would be able to involve more private investors with us. But they won't do it alone because it's too risky.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U55	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U56	Thank you. Dear waitress, On the one hand, your greater emphasis on entrepreneurial learning in the new strategy is certainly right, and in the medium term it will also lead to considerable growth in the economy. On the other hand, the Estonian Development Fund Act makes it clear that one of the objectives of the Development Fund is that the Development Fund has so far excelled quite a lot, i.e. the organisation of development monitoring. As such, the Development Fund has been, to a considerable extent, an avant-garde in the political and social debate in Estonia, talking about global economic, ecological, demographic and other trends in the context of 20, 30 or 40 years. Will you continue to play this avant-garde role, or will you now, above all, address the shortcomings of the education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U57	One of the objectives of the Development Fund is that we should be influential and contribute in an influential way to economic development. What I described is the most influential way we've come up with. Indeed, the Development Fund has done a lot of reports in the past, they have also been reported and distributed in this Chamber. Our understanding has been that despite the fact that there are very high quality and good things, their spread and influence has not been very great. Of course, monitoring activities will not cease, monitoring activities will not disappear. I didn't say much about it, but the surveillance activity is going to be more focused than it has been so far. There are two key areas where monitoring activities are carried out: entrepreneurship and the green economy. We both try to follow the principle that I described earlier. In our opinion, the main beneficiary of our activities is not a public official or a politician, but the beneficiary must be an entrepreneur. It is the happy and wealthy entrepreneur who really grows the economy. So if we understand something with the help of surveillance, we will not first publish a monitoring report on the basis of this understanding, but will try to launch a growth programme, and if someone has benefited from this growth programme, then we can draw a conclusion and a generalisation that can be used, for example, in legislation. Surveillance remains, but it is more focused than it has been. We expect that in each monitoring programme we are launching, we have a specific partner who wants to carry out the results we have achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U58	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U59	Thank you very much, too, for a clear and simple presentation. But my eyes, as chairman of the National Defence Commission, were particularly attached to one of the slides on which I saw honorable uniform bearers. That's my question. Of course, if you take it statistically, all the uniform carriers have gone to school, so obviously they can't do mechanical additions for these three target groups, there's some overlap. But my question is, was it just such a theoretical idea, or has it gone a little further? Has the generals been spoken to, and if so, what were the emotions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U60	I'm sure the colonels have been spoken to, I don't know if they're with the generals. But with both the Ministry and the Defence Forces, we've really been talking about this. We are planning a pilot project next year, in which we are trying to provide the same entrepreneurial training and advice to the members of the Defence Forces returning from the mission and returning to civilian life. So, basically, the idea is that the defence forces could offer entrepreneurship training on the other side of military service, a project negotiated and launched at ministerial level as well as at defence level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U61	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U62	Good waitress! Many thanks for this maybe in some ways simplified overview, but it is really interesting to compare Estonia's situation with that of other countries, with another investment environment. That is what my question is about. If we compare Estonia's current situation, whether it is a tax or a legal environment, has the Development Fund also thought about it, for example at the Council level, which we could have done differently from the legal and financial side, given our limited resources, but at the same time with great flexibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U63	There really are some things that we could discuss. We are actually dealing with this with FinanceEstonia, a cluster of financial services companies that we have initiated with our participation. And we ourselves are discussing a number of things that we could do better. One issue, for example, could be tax incentives for investment. For example, in Finland, this has been the case for decades and the law has now finally been passed, which really makes such a start-up investment or angel investor activity much more attractive than Estonian laws currently allow. The second topic could be as follows. I showed this tube where we could pull people in. These companies will grow bigger. Theoretically, a pipe like this could be placed anywhere, not only in Narva, but also east of Narva. There may be a lot of people who would like to come and start a business in Estonia. We don't have a lot of people, and we could get more talented people from abroad. This would, of course, require a certain political will beyond our decision-making powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U64	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U65	Good performer! I am pleased that the Development Fund has seized the bull and started to deal with a topic that will be one of the most painful issues in Estonia in the near future and perhaps in the future. Everyone wants to get paid and earn well, but nobody wants to be an entrepreneur and take the risks associated with it. A lot of people don't even think about it. But what I am interested in is that in the past, much of the work of the Development Fund was made up of monitoring in various areas. How actively are they and how are they used? Has there been such an analysis, and what winds are blowing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U66	We have analysed a little how well the monitoring reports of the Development Fund are being kept up to date, for example, by the Riigikogu. I dare say you know little about them, haven't really read them. In short, they have had very little influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U67	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U68	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! My question is this: how much do you mean about interests or investments in renewable energy and green energy? Which way is it? By the way, if we were to look at the computer you have on your desk, four years ago, it would only have gotten tossed in the Riigikogu building. It wasn't compatible with any of the systems. How broad are you looking at investments in the direction that the rest of the world is going?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U69	It is one of our main activities to see where the rest of the world is going and also to look for someone in Estonia who could somehow take advantage of these trends. As far as energy and the green economy are concerned, these are the main focus of our monitoring activities. This week we have Peep Siitam, the new head of monitoring activities, who is working on the development of the green economy. Our main activity in the green economy and energy sector is, like all our other monitoring work, aimed at analysing trends in the world, monitoring where things are going, and then exploring whether there are companies in Estonia that could benefit from the opportunities that arise as a result of world trends. In doing so, we need to think about whether we could play a role in some area as initiator, supporter, bringing people together so that Estonian entrepreneurs can take advantage of the opportunities that have opened up. I do not know if this is an adequate answer, but yes, we are very active in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U70	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U71	Dear Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund, I will first respond to your previous answer. You said that you have examined the impact on the reports on the Development Fund from someone in this Chamber, and that it is non-existent. I don't know who you've been talking to, but I'm afraid to express a different opinion. These have been very good reports. I would therefore ask about the monitoring area. Your presentation gave the impression that there's a piece of work in the development fund that's backwards, that's the same monitoring. At the same time, you have announced that you have found a new leader for the monitoring field. Indeed, the activities of the Development Fund are not a one-man show. Would you shed more light on what you've done with the staff of the Development Fund since you were elected new leader?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U72	Thank you for your question. You have given me a few statements that I have not said. I said that the impact of the reports has been very small, not that it has been non-existent. These estimates are a little similar, but they're not exactly the same. And I didn't say that a new leader has been found to monitor the development fund. I said the new green economy leader came to work this week. But what has happened to the human resources of the Development Fund? Some people have left, and some people have come, which is a daily and natural course of action in an organization where a strategic turn is taking place. There will be more people who are needed for new tasks, and some people who have been recruited for other things will go away. There are three or four of them. There is still so much in the monitoring area of the Development Fund that it does not disappear. We are trying to monitor each monitoring project in such a way that it has a specific client. Each activity must have a specific customer or beneficiary. For example, when we are dealing with the green economy, the beneficiaries are the Green Economy and Energy Advisory Boards and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. If we are doing business, we are, on the one hand, the beneficiary, because we need the results of entrepreneurship monitoring to clarify our growth programmes. However, if we are dealing, for example, with entrepreneurship and innovation or with entrepreneurship education, then our partners in these specific monitoring projects or programmes are ministries that need this result.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U73	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U74	Thank you for your good presentation. I'm asking about the risks. I absolutely agree that a company learns from one decent bankruptcy much more than a few good success stories, but how can it be taken out of fear of bankruptcy or failure? On the one hand, it is pleased that the Development Fund is also in surplus with its activities, but maybe the Development Fund and its main cooperation partner, EAS, should also be even more risky in order to get young entrepreneurs and businesses into their rooms and help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U75	Thank you, that is a very good point. We should be relatively risky and not be afraid of failure. This is one of the problems that has actually been accompanied by investments in the Development Fund. On the one hand, it's like pressure from the public, why you don't invest more, but when some things go wrong, somehow they want to talk more about them. But if, for example, two out of 16 have gone wrong, it's not much. We must stress more that failure at the early stage of the undertaking is self-evident. But I can't speak for EAS. Well, their actions are determined by laws and other regulations. In general, it seems to me that there is too much focus on avoiding errors in the whole area of business support, rather than looking at where we could achieve a greater victory.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U76	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U77	Good waitress! My question is also about monitoring and reports. I have already learned from your answers that they are to be continued. But how much of your monitoring reports do you work with banks, especially banks' loan departments and market analysts? If you look at what problems the banks have, you will get the impression that when it comes to a little more specific companies, there is no proper analytical capacity in the Estonian business environment. Not enough reference material. Perhaps, above all, we could work together in this area and disseminate our reports? Or is such cooperation working?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U78	That's a good point. I cannot say that this cooperation is working very well right now. But in general, we want to be very cooperative and work with everyone. Our principle is that we should not try to do something that no one is already doing. Such analyses are carried out in both Eesti Pank and commercial banks, as well as in universities and other institutions. We wouldn't want to be dubious and try to show that we're doing something better than anyone. Our goal is to do with the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U79	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U80	Good performer, first of all, I wish you good luck in your new job. My question, however, concerns training. You yourself have a very long career in this area and that is why I am asking. It is said that Estonia has low productivity and that this is a very big problem. That's why wages can't go up. If we are looking at Finland, Sweden and Norway, then yes, so it is there that productivity is much higher. And if an Estonian person goes to work there, suddenly his productivity will increase. This leads me to wonder whether one of the reasons why our productivity is low is not the quality of our leaders. It is known that Thatcher began training the leaders in his day. I am not so worried about the leaders who work here in large multinational companies, because they are well trained and are constantly getting more training than for companies with Estonian capital. What could the state do, and what could you do to train our leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U81	That is a very good question and a very correct problem statement. That's exactly what it is. Why does human productivity increase when they go to another country? They're better managed, very easy! What can we do? In our programme, it was a business or business coaching programme for start-ups, which I was talking about. We have tripped so that we should train 20 business coaches each year during the planned seven-year period. After all, not all of them remain engaged in start-ups. Some go to work in some of these companies, some start doing something else, etc. For seven years, however, 140 business coaches would be created on the Estonian market. These are professional advisors who can help the same companies that they have helped to enter the market to grow up. They can also help medium-sized enterprises to grow. These business coaches or business coaches, as they are called in English, are my answer to that question. Our problem is that large companies can train their employees, not small ones. What Estonian leaders need is not to go to a Master's degree in Business Administration, but they need a coach who helps them in their everyday affairs, attends them and sees how they work. One of my favorite drivers, Henry Mintzberg, has said that leadership should not be taught by anyone who hasn't run anything. His principle is that the driver will take the lead, gain experience, and he will be helped by a coach. With the help of this coach, he can better understand his experience and his work will be more effective. It doesn't make much sense to spend time in some classroom. One day is enough, you can start right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U82	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U83	Good waitress! Is there room for seniors in the strategy proposed by the Development Fund? Could a 60-year-old like me be one of its 100,000 and in the future maybe 5,000 or 500?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U84	Absolutely! You are very welcome! I explained that we're 50% trying to target the young. The reason is that there is a period of entrepreneurship in a person's life span, aged 15 to 25. When a person at that age makes his or her first business, he or she can most likely become a real entrepreneur. I repeat, most likely. But there are a lot of different examples. We intend to solve these other 50,000 problems with large hall trainings in Tartu, Narva, Tallinn, Pärnu. Everyone can come, no matter how old, and there are people who say I want to try, I have a business idea, I want to do this with this man or this woman or this one or this one. Everyone is welcome for business coach consultations, and I really do not think that 60-year-olds should not be an entrepreneur. On the contrary, it should become an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U85	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U86	Good waitress! I'm not exactly original, but I want to thank you too for an interesting presentation. But here's the question. As an entrepreneur and now as head of the development fund, you probably agree that, in addition to capital, good chance and knowledge, a very important resource is a person who is the same employee, as well as the same entrepreneur. How do you feel about a law in Estonia that needs to be improved or amended to value human capital? Or maybe we need a whole new regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U87	I don't think there's anything wrong with our laws. Actually, we're just missing people. The kind of people we can't get out of our education system are missing, no matter what we do. If we could do something here, such as Garage48 is doing in Russia or Belarus or Ukraine. During the two-day event, there will be a great team who would like to come to the incubator in Estonia, so that someone unrolls the green carpet in front of him and says: please come here, we will give you a year or five-year work permit. That could be it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U88	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U89	Good waitress! I, too, thank you for your good report and your patient answer to questions. I ask a very specific question: do you have a set of rules on how high your risk limit is? I mean the cap when you invest. And is there a threshold below which you will simply not waste your time? And what kind of bureaucracy or decision-making mechanism do you have? If two senses, as you said, have come through your door with your laptop, when can they get the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U90	We only have the upper limit in the sense that we must not acquire a majority shareholding. We must limit ourselves to minority holdings. There is no threshold directly. The smaller seed investments we are considering can start with a few tens of thousands of euros. The seed phase we're talking about is actually up to a few hundred thousand. As far as the ceiling is concerned, on the one hand, it has been said that we must not acquire a majority, but must be a minority shareholder. But basically, that limit comes from the investment money we have. If we're talking about big investments, maybe we could only make a few or three investments with all our assets, and the money would have been invested. But we don't want that. We want to create more businesses, rather we make smaller, but more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U91	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U92	Dear waitress, The need to constantly pump new ideas and fresh air into the business sector will probably never disappear. The situation is changing very quickly and the business sector must always succeed. That's the only way. I want to ask the strategic question: how do you think the Development Fund will evolve? What could be your presentation here in the Riigikogu in ten years, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U93	You don't have the guts to think that far. I've been elected for five years, and maybe I'll go back to business after that. I don't know if I'm gonna be given that much time. But in five years' time, I would like to say that a large part of this growth programme that I have introduced to you today has been successfully realised and that the second growth programme, which concerns the start-up landscape, is going to be full-time, start-ups are coming up and there are good results in every stage of the programme. If you could dream, I would start by saying that the Riigikogu and the Development Fund are like a parent and a child. The years of man and the years of the company are not entirely overlapping. The Development Fund is five years old, but it seems to me that it has been like a teenage child to the Riigikogu. Relationships have not been the best. Perhaps the child has sometimes thought that he is wiser, and has not gone to seek advice, but to teach. I would like things to be different in this regard, so that we have a mature relationship, that we listen to each other and consider each other. It seems to me that today's sitting is very promising in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U94	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U95	Thank you, Tõnis, for a didactically strong presentation. But when we did the law on the Development Fund here in the Riigikogu, the Finnish model model was the standard of establishing relations with the top of society, the people in the various auditoriums are trying to bring the leaders of innovation to the same wave. Then the necessary decisions will come more easily. That was one approach. Now you're saying that it's a desire to step away from a more elitist approach a little bit and go to the grassroots level. Possibly! I agree with that. Schools, by the way, currently have economics and entrepreneurship training in the study programme; these curricula can be either macro-economic or entrepreneurship-oriented. Do you also deal with IT Academy and other educational programmes in the future or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U96	Specifically, we're not dealing with the IT Academy anymore. This programme was a development fund project in terms of "project management" for a long time, and it has now become what has become. There are some curricula and additional funding. As far as education is concerned, yes, entrepreneurship is our priority both in monitoring activities and in the sense that we are having discussions with both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on how we can take the lead in preparing a new strategy for entrepreneurship education. It fits very well with our other work, and that is what we really want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U97	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U98	I am very interested in your position as to whether there are currently any obstacles to entrepreneurship in Estonia from the legislative side.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U99	I can't tell you what we might be missing in the legislative process. It is very easy to start a business in Estonia. I don't know if it's any easier. I cannot say that something is lacking in this regard. I'm sure all things can be done better, but I don't have a concrete answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U100	Thank you. Please, Aare Heinvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U101	Dear waitress, My question goes back to the similarity or contradiction between the public and private sectors. The private sector is certainly characterised by certain venture capital, willingness to take risks, and the public sector we are used to calling it risk-free. At the same time, the private and public sectors are sometimes approaching, with similar characteristics. Would you have any suggestions for developing the public sector through the use of certain venture capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U102	If I understand correctly, you said that the public sector should be risk-free. When we talk about venture capital, venture capital can never be risk-free. There are also risky activities. When we talk about supporting start-ups or investing in them, it is a very risky activity. If the public sector is generally based on the principle that the public sector should be risk-free or low-risk, this principle should be abandoned on this point and it should be understood that when the public sector goes to make risk investments, they are risky. They're just the essence of it. We have examples where public money put in the start-ups as support is being sought back because the forecasts were not correct. But the prognosis never gets right with the start-ups. They're always the wrong ones, that's the rule of fist. It's a huge coincidence if the projections happen to be correct. Going to do things that are inherently risky, you have to realize that this environment is what it is. It cannot be assumed that if the public sector goes and risks its money in the venture capital market, there is no real risk. That's not possible! As far as the general public sector is concerned, the efficiency of this sector could be enhanced. There's definitely room for improvement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U103	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U104	Good waitress! I understand that the Development Fund has been set up to discuss a broad range of issues and future objectives. At the same time, the new management has completed a programme such as talent monitoring, which I believe is one of the most serious challenges in Estonia. At the same time, I see that the Development Fund has quite a lot of focus on all kinds of business issues that are under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but in this area we already have two state foundations: KredEx and EAS. So there's actually going to be some duplication. Aren't you afraid that in such new trends, the Development Fund will not fulfil the objective set out in the law, and if the focus is constantly narrowed, the idea of the Development Fund will disappear altogether?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U105	I'm not scared, it would be a short answer. And no duplicates, either, would be a bit extended in answer. As far as the points prescribed by law are concerned, everything we do comes directly from the law. When you talk about duplication, for example, the development of entrepreneurship is among the objectives set by law for us as well as those set by law for the EAS. So the law says we both have to deal with it. The strategic focus, which I think we have very well in place, is the first prerequisite for success. That's why we're trying to focus our actions. As far as talent monitoring is concerned, the planned talent monitoring programme was such that the results of which were known in advance and the impact of which was known in advance. I therefore did not consider it necessary to continue this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U106	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U107	Honourable speaker! I have a question: do you already have more specific and detailed plans and plans? I am particularly interested in the fact that, as discussed above, many schools already have entrepreneurship training. How does this work and what programmes and other measures are there to take on seniors and what will be done in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U108	The plans are specific in the sense that we have planned certain amounts, activities and deadlines for things like this. Funding is not quite clear yet and therefore takes some time to launch. As far as seniors are concerned, I meant that, if a one-day wake-up meeting was to be held, it should ideally be training carried out by entrepreneurs. They're talking about what they've done. And, of course, there could also be a trainer. By "business" I mean not a training undertaking or the owner of a project writing company, but a real entrepreneur. A couple of real entrepreneurs and one trainer could, for example, be such a team. Of course, we must obtain such a service on the market. We imagine that there could be between two and three teams competing with each other, whose future funding depends on how many people who want to start working on their business idea, thanks to their training. If we have these teams, we could propose to the schools that you see, it's up to you to round up your seniors in the hall, a team of practitioners will come in for the day and give you this training. That's our idea of it. The same could happen in universities. We do not mean that we should interfere in curricula or programs. We should offer students the opportunity to attend a training day each semester, where entrepreneurs explain to them the essence of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U109	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U110	Dear waitress, Many members of the Riigikogu received an invitation to take part in a business day organised by the newspaper Äripäev. A one-day course or training involving our top managers costs 100 euros. In this context, I ask you: what is the price policy for the business trainers of the Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U111	Business trainers should be provided to the representatives of the starting company, whether free of charge or for a symbolic fee. At the same time, the business coach, when we talk about professional activities, should receive a decent salary for his professional work. Such work cannot be carried out on a voluntary basis. You're a good entrepreneur, and they're asking you to come over and talk to some young people. A good entrepreneur sometimes comes and talks for a few hours, but he doesn't talk for a hundred or a thousand hours. The pricing policy must be such that the beneficiary of the training receives it at a symbolic price or completely free of charge, while the trainer must receive a decent payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U112	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U113	Honourable waitress! You have repeatedly emphasised today that investment is being made in sectors that create high added value. You gave the hope that in addition to Tallinn and Tartu, something could happen in Narva or even Jõhvi. My question is: what are rural areas covered by new ideas? Do you have any good examples of "sun ideas" that have come true in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U114	I owe you an answer. There are no good examples now; rather, there is a good intention. Hopefully, in a year's time, I will be able to give some good examples of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U115	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for this presentation and meaningful answers. We are now going to negotiate. I would like to ask for a chair of speech as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union of Tõnis Palts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U116	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the Development Fund is to support our business, our country, so that we can achieve a better position than other countries, to do so better than business organisations in other countries. As a first point, I would like to raise the question of whether we have not come to admire our navel too much in this context. The waitress spoke easily, if you have noticed, a small comparison with the neighbouring countries. The risk capital offered by the state in 2006-2012 was 20 million euros in Estonia, and 57 million euros in Latvia. What does that really mean? I mean, in this area, we're getting more and more behind the Latvians every year. Of course we'd like to be better than Latvians. In agriculture, we compare subsidies every day with those of other European countries. In my opinion, the aim should be, above all, to compare the same grants in other countries. The money to increase the subsidies, we have. Recently, a state-owned company provided the Chinese economy with a direct grant of over EUR 30 million, in a form of non-refundable aid. Even if we lose the investment that the Development Fund represents, it is still more sensible than supporting the Chinese economy. Another remarkable undertaking is the creation of a 'business environment'. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the development fund does not have a permanent position in the state budget. As far as I know, the Development Fund asks for EUR 1.2 to 1.5 million each year for support. I think that in the state budget, the Development Fund should have the same line as other foundations have, for example, theatres. But I also have a complaint to the Development Fund itself. The rapporteur said that they are pleased that some of the people who move to Silicon Valley are also thinking about Estonia. I think it's a little short. The Development Fund risks a little too much supporting Silicon Valley too much with the emergence of new companies, to say the word Silicon Valley. In my opinion, when selecting projects, the Development Fund is not critical enough to analyse whether these so-called start-ups will later invest, indirectly or directly, in Estonia, in what they earn or, above all, in the value they sell. True, there are not yet very bad examples, but this risk is very high. All in all, three things. Firstly, IRL believes that the investment portfolio should be increased to at least the same size as the Latvians. Secondly, there should be a separate budgetary position for the operation costs of the Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U117	Shall we extend it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U118	Five seconds, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U119	Let's take a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U120	And thirdly, when choosing projects, the Development Fund should be more careful that the increase in value is invested directly or indirectly in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U121	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of Jaan Õunapuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U122	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we got a completely different vision of the development of the development fund today than before. Mr Arro can make good use of his training background as head of the institution. Today he had the opportunity to speak here in front of us for half an hour, but the report lasted 19 minutes. As I asked him in my question, I would have liked to hear more from the Head of the Development Fund about what he sees as the effects that come from elsewhere in Europe coming from Asia and the American markets and companies. Previous reports from the Development Fund have left the impression that most organisations die not because they do the wrong things, but because they do the right things for too long. Here you can bring a parallel to the Estonian state. We are trying stubbornly to adhere to the principles of tax, economic, educational and regional policy that fit Estonia during the first decade of independence. You don't even want to discuss the fact that time has moved on and what worked in the old days is no longer a success. A person is responsible for the success of the state. The economy is not developing in its own right. It all starts with how many people are, what their skills and abilities are, and ends with how well they are and how many years have been active. This is why the Social Democrats are convinced that, when it comes to economic policy and the promotion of the economy, it is important that the country focuses its focus on people. What is Estonian family, education, health and regional policy depends on Estonia's long-term welfare and economic success. Much is said that economic development must also ensure growth in general well-being. This means decent employment and the purchasing power of the population, good education and health care, and halting emigration. One of you will help. This means that the state's contribution to people, their education and health must be seen as an investment that contributes to economic growth. Each company will also benefit if its workforce is dignified, with good skills and high purchasing power. According to the Human Development Report published more than a year ago, almost 100000 Estonian residents do not see their future and their children in Estonia; more than 400000 could not answer that question. In short, in addition to 100000 people who have already decided to leave Estonia, there are still 400000 people who do not know whether they would rather live in Estonia in the future. These figures are of great concern to the social democrats. What do we do to attract new talent if the existing ones don't want to stay here? Our low wages are often caused by low productivity per capita. It is true that on average productivity in Estonia is several times lower than in Finland, for example, but it is interesting that when an Estonian travels 80 km north to work, its productivity is suddenly no longer low. The question arises as to why. Is there a reason for being employed or for being elsewhere? Is it because of mismanagement decisions or something else? Currently, 80% of exporting companies in Estonia are held by foreign investors. They decide what is being produced in this country. Are these products with high added value, with higher wages and more money in the country of production or with more focus on energy intensive production with cheap labour? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U123	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U124	Currently, the production of machinery and equipment, wood and furniture, textiles and food industries, which have low added value, is the main part of Estonian exports. Participation in economic cooperation in service and product development, exports of services, research, etc. must be our next export priority. This would also make it possible to provide employment for young professionals who would otherwise probably find a job abroad. In coming to Mr Arro's introduction to the two growth programmes, it should be said that this is a very grateful activity. I have a question as to why it has not been actively dealt with so far. We all know that Estonia's GDP per capita is 65% of the European Union average. In Estonia, only 40% of the working age population wants to be self-employed; in the European Union the average is 45%, in the USA 61%. Only 5.6% of the working age population are entrepreneurs; the European average is 9%. I very much hope that the plans for half of the seniors, 20% of the students and 95% of the conscripts to be involved in the study of entrepreneurship will produce their own results. 100,000 people will eventually be selected, 5,000 of them who will remain on the sieve and will contribute to the Estonian state's entrepreneurship, hopefully in seven or eight years it will also materialise. The sums put into play and the potential yield figures with which Tõnis Arro came out here at about 200 million euros for seven years are quite impressive. God forbid it'll all come true. And also, maybe you'll be able to train high-level business coaches. You wish to bring 20 business coaches to Estonian society and the economy. I hope that this will happen and that next year, when we listen to the presentation of the Development Fund, there will be no delay in knowing that the Fund has done something that society does not particularly approve of. I'm thinking more than a thousand square meters of office space here and less than 20 employees on this surface. I hope that this problem has been solved and that the results of the fund will speak for themselves, so the people of Estonia and Estonian entrepreneurs will be satisfied with the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U125	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Central Party Group of Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U126	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U127	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U128	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, the Head of the Honourable Development Fund. My speech is going to be bumpy in the sense that I put it together from the various fragments I heard here today. The position of the Centre Party Group is clearly that the Development Fund is a necessary organisation for the Estonian state and its introduction was very reasonable in its day. The state must have an independent institution made up of specialists, which will shape the vision of the country's overall economic policy. The economy, as we know, is the foundation of all things. In the first period of its existence, the Development Fund was a relatively normally capitalised structure. Then he was able to use Telekom's dividends. With regard to the sale of Telecom shares by the State, this capital disappeared and, of course, there is a loss, all the more so as this capital disappeared at a time when the Development Fund could certainly have been very much boosted in the crisis situation, just like this, how do I say? just a little bit higher on the food chain for innovative entrepreneurship. It is clear that we expect the Development Fund, above all, to analyse what could improve the economic situation in Estonia so that it seeks new approaches. I remember a very sympathetic presentation of the development fund. Namely, in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, I had the honour to be a member of the Economic Committee, where the Development Fund presented us with a rehabilitation export plan. It stated how to use the infrastructure of Estonian hospitals in agreement with the Nordic countries, for example, for rehabilitation of people of pensionable age in Finland and Sweden. This was intended to bring Estonia to the capital of the health care system, of course on the basis of a transnational agreement. Perhaps this would have helped us to reduce the cost of capital paid out of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, for example, for the maintenance of large monster hospitals. Why hasn't this project moved anywhere? It's a question of who's supposed to do the job. At the moment, if the Development Fund even develops some very good idea, the position of the Estonian government is rather that the state does not have to deal with entrepreneurship. But sometimes it makes sense for a country to do business, especially in a small country like us, where these processes are still relatively well monitored and managed. From today's speech, it was said that Estonians are not entrepreneurial, that they do not want to do business. Let me give you a simple example, or rather not a simple example. Let's say a person thinks he's going to do something. He may have a very good idea, maybe a very good sausage recipe, or he may have a pretty clear understanding of something else. We usually set up smaller businesses in business, which provide a service or produce some kind of relatively, do not want to use the word 'primitive', but let's say, a specific product that can be eaten. In a good case, it is possible to sell this product, or it will be possible for someone, as they say, to pet and ask for money. Such companies are, as we know, average companies with between one and nine employees, and if it is not a project dealing with the IT economy, then it is clear from the day that there is no point in going to the Development Fund. There is no point in going to the bank, either, for the simple reason that no one in the bank takes this person seriously. There's no point in going to EAS either, because no one's taking him seriously there. Hence, there is only one way for a person to capitalize his thoughts: to know someone who knows someone who has money. But then there may be a business block that if I tell Peter Võsa, for example, that I'm giving up capital to realize your good idea, but I want to get that kind of interest and all the other conditions, then Peter Võsa will give up. He's giving up his training company, and that's it. In fact, we declare very much that we develop, train, grow. But if we put this trained person in a practical position, no one will really help him. I think this is the key to why the Estonians are so unselfish. They can't move! There are ideas, but you just can't get started, because you have to have some money to buy yourself at least a notepad and a cell phone. In this sense, I do not agree with the statement of the Head of the Development Fund that the obstacle to entrepreneurship is basically in our head. It is not so much in our head as in the environment, because we do not have a financing system that supports the small business that Estonia owns, and therefore we may not have quite a lot of good ideas. One more observation today. A good colleague, Tõnis Palts, said that the Development Fund is in financial distress and its financing should at least be brought to the level of Latvia. However, in my memory, the old man clearly remembers that Tõnis Palts is part of a party of the government coalition, as is our Minister for Economic Affairs, who could also be quite familiar with the affairs of the Development Fund. So you don't have to come to the Riigikogu to complain that the Development Fund doesn't have any money. Then make up your mind in the government! Indeed, the Estonian state has made enough stupid investments. Give that money to reasonable men! It would become a lot of support for society, and then it would be easier for those in power to say that you see, we have boosted the Estonian economy and we have been hit with extraordinary happiness and well-being, so that people no longer tend to go abroad. I must admit, with satisfaction, that the voters of the Reform Party are leaving Estonia, the voters of the Centre Party remain in place, and they have nowhere to go. In conclusion, the position of the Centre Party Group is clearly supportive of the Development Fund. We wish them toughness and strength, and we hope that the rulers of our country will find a way to finance them normally. It is the task of the state to support its own people, especially the enterprising people, to lead them in the right direction, to give them an opportunity. It's gonna make our lives better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U129	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Koja Kallas Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a great deal of talk here today about the new direction of the Development Fund and everything that has been done in the past has also been criticised very much. However, I would like to begin by saying that very many good things have been done in the development fund. Good monitoring and good research have been carried out there, and it is up to us decision-makers and companies to make the right use of the results of these studies and monitoring. Mr Riisalu has left, but I wanted to tell him for information that, for example, this same rehabilitation topic has been released in a cluster such as Medicine Estonia. Different medical companies put their heads together to think about how we can make sure that we export medical services rather than doctors. A positive example of what has emerged from the monitoring of the Development Fund can also be found in the FinanceEstonia cluster, where financial services companies have put their heads together to discuss how to develop this sector better in Estonia. The second important issue on the development fund, discussed today, concerns venture capital. Venture capital is the capital of risk. This means that such investment is always associated with risk. If you look at the investments in the Development Fund, they have, however, been successful or relatively successful. By the way, I will come back to the words of the previous speaker. He said we'd give the money to reasonable men who would then decide where better to place it. I think it is important to mention that the investment manager of the Development Fund is a woman. Such a small mid-term remark. In the case of the Development Fund, it also ties in with the strategy proposed by the new leader, that more needs to be said about the success stories that have emerged either from the monitoring of the Development Fund or, hopefully, from this new growth programme. I do not agree with my colleague, Mr Palts, who called for us to somehow restrict the transition of supported entrepreneurs to the big world. We can't limit it! Unfortunately, our market is small, we have 1.3 million people, and if the entrepreneur has such a weighty and good idea that he can succeed in London or America, then we should be proud of him and encourage his actions in every way possible. I believe that an entrepreneur who does not have any restrictions will also invest in Estonia. He probably remembers Estonia with gratitude, and certainly this gratitude is expressed not only in words but also in actions towards Estonia. Therefore, the new leader should certainly want the strength to implement the new strategy. It should be in our interest for all of us to have more entrepreneurs in Estonia who create companies that employ people. These people are paid a salary that pays taxes, and with this tax money, we can help those who are not handling their own very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-18_U131	Thank you very much. The negotiations have been concluded and the whole agenda item is also under way. Our trial today is over. I wish everyone a beautiful day, and once again I thank everyone who prepared this interesting overview. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 11.57 a.m.
