ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, at the time and on the agenda requested by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four drafts today. Firstly, the draft law on ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Secondly, the draft law amending the Public Information Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Third, the draft law amending the Prisons Act, the Penal Code and the Penal Code. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2011. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U3	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 12 members of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to ask Keit Pentus-Rosimitud, the Minister for the Environment. The subject of the inquiry is the possible placing on the market of the State Forest Management Centre. RMK has been a government profit-making institution operating since 1999. At the end of July, the article "The state hunger for dividends pushes RMK towards the stock market" was published in the Estonian Päevaleht. RMK intends to significantly increase the volume of investments in the coming years, on the grounds that the forest would otherwise be destroyed. In particular, it is planned to build drainage ditches and to build export routes. The company would have the money it needs to invest itself, but the state will, unfortunately, withdraw this money as a dividend from the company. For example, this year, the state took EUR 26 million in dividends from the forest. RMK's investment needs would be met by a lower amount of EUR 10 million. According to an article in the Estonian Daily Paper, Jürgen Ligi has proposed to take RMK to the stock market. With this step, we would like to see one of Estonia's main natural resources and state assets sold mainly to foreign investors. Our main question, therefore, is: is the placing of RMK on the stock market aimed at ensuring the necessary resources to participate in the ESM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 17 Social Democrats, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The inquiry concerns the public sector's wages. Recently, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Research, expressed the view that public sector workers have generated legitimate expectations of wage increases due to inflation growth and economic progress. He explained that, of course, educators, but not only, are among those who have a legitimate expectation that their pay should increase. The Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, has stated that people working in strategic areas are not properly paid and that there is a serious problem in finding and keeping people in these positions. He has said that the government must give a signal that it is moving towards a more dignified salary. The Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, has told health professionals in his administration that their pay will increase by at least 10% over three years, including the 5% increase next year. The Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, has allowed budgetary negotiations to stand for better motivation for internal security staff and said that, above all, additional money will be requested for the next year to increase the payroll fund of the Ministry of the Interior. Today's Eesti Päevaleht presents similar views on the legitimate wage expectations of state officials in their administration. Pursuant to § 12 (1) of the State Budget Act, the Ministry of Finance negotiates the draft budget and the justification and feasibility of its expenditure. The Minister of Finance has claimed that wage increases in Estonia have been faster than price increases. On this basis, we ask the Minister of Finance whether the real wage changes for educational and cultural workers, police officers, rescuers, defence forces and medical staff have been faster than the increase in prices over the last five years. We are also asking for his assessment of the feasibility and justification of ministers' expectations and whether the wishes and promises of ministers Aaviksoo, Reinsalu, Pevkur and Vaher have come true in the draft state budget for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U7	On behalf of the board, I have adopted four draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If enquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them to the addressees immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Fisheries Act, initiated on 8 August, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated on 8 August, of which the commission is the National Defence Commission, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Pharmaceutical Law, initiated on 8 August 2008, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated on 8 August and related to other laws, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated on 8 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, initiated on 8 August, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodichis. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" was submitted on 8 August, the commission of which is the Social Affairs Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has communicated Estonia's positions on 24 August in the negotiations on an agreement between Russia, Belarus and the European Union on the operation of the Baltic electricity systems, the European Union Affairs Committee and has appointed the Economic Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 13 September at 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, now I would like special attention. Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, asks that a meeting of the National Defence Committee be held 15 minutes after the end of the session. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. Please, Mr Allik! Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, The chairman's recess is over. Please sit in your seat and repeat your presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. We can begin the work of an emergency session. Next, we will set a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of the votes. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please vote! 87 members of the Riigikogu with no votes against and 3 abstentions. A timetable for the work of the extraordinary session has been established.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U9	We will begin the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a summary overview of the discussions that have taken place before the second reading of the draft Act 254 on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism and of the amendments to the draft. The first reading of the draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism took place in the Riigikogu on 8 August 2012. In short, I will speak once again about the draft and the ESM objectives. The proposal combines two parts: ratifying the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), ESMA, and laying down the provisions necessary for its national implementation. The ESM shall be established as an international financial institution. In essence, it is a cooperative bank which aims to contribute to the financial stability of the euro area and its Member States by providing stability support to ESM members in severe difficulties under strict economic policy conditions, in other words loans. ESMA is part of the European Union's financial stability safeguard package. The operating principles of the ESM are similar to those of the IMF. It is worth mentioning that the IMF has not lost its money so far. Some countries have paid the IMF back in ten or twenty years, but despite difficult times, they have felt the need to pay it off. The IMF is a global crisis solver, but when it comes to larger countries, these funds are not enough. ESM partners are all euro area Member States, most of which have now ratified the Treaty. The impact of the ESM on Estonia, as on other Member States, is such that the ESM ensures the security of the euro area as a whole and provides a long-term guarantee that it is possible to obtain credit in order to enable the state to operate and service its debt obligations in crisis situations when access to credit finance markets is difficult or impossible. Here I will give members of the Riigikogu an overview of Estonia's participation. Estonia undertakes to allocate EUR 148,8 million in paid-up capital to the ESM in five instalments. If this draft is adopted as a law, Estonia would make payments in 2012 in two parts: 30 + 30 million euros. The remaining share of EUR 1,1532 billion would then be in the form of possible callable capital. The total contribution would amount to EUR 1.3 billion. The so-called capital key of Estonia's participation has taken into account the lower level of Estonia's GDP, so only after the temporary adjustment has ended, i.e. after 12 years, will Estonia's participation amount to 1.79 billion euros. The total capital of the ESM amounts to EUR 700 billion, of which the paid-up capital is EUR 80 billion and the guarantee is EUR 620 billion. The maximum loan volume is actually EUR 500 billion. Now for the procedure. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft after its first reading at its three meetings on 21, 22 and 28 August. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and officials of the Ministry of Finance, took part in all the meetings as the initiator's representative, and at each meeting they also pass on the positions of the Ministry on matters arising from the procedure of the draft. The committee also asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu about the draft. In addition, the Commission received a letter from the IRL Group on the draft. The committee also dealt with the letter of formal notice addressed to the President of the Riigikogu, Ene Ergma, concerning the accession to the contract, signed by ten citizens of the Republic of Estonia. On 21 August, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder attended the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Chancellor of Justice for being prepared to intervene with his advice already in the draft procedure. As you know, the Chancellor of Justice usually gives his opinion only after the law has been passed. From recent history, I remember that the Chancellor of Justice was also ready to contribute in the process of the EFSF, and we finally got a law that took into account all possible points of risk of interference and problems. It was mentioned in the Committee on Finance that a number of groups held separate meetings with the Chancellor of Justice to discuss the issues raised with the ESM. It can be safely said that his observations also contributed to further legal certainty this time in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In his opinion on the draft, the Chancellor of Justice stressed that decisions relating to financial commitments to the state and other important matters of state life must be taken in the plenary of the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice also considered that it would make sense to continue to deal with these issues, the ratification of the Treaty and the implementing provisions of the Treaty in a single draft. The separation of the draft into two drafts does not serve any purpose and does not increase the legal certainty of the draft. Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, attended the meeting of the Monetary Commission on 22 August, who gave members of the Monetary Commission an overview of the positions of the European Central Bank and of the possibilities of action to ensure the financial stability of the euro area. The Governor of Eesti Pank found that the ESM was one of the financial stability mechanisms and added that Estonia was an open economy and was clearly integrated into Europe. In addition, his presentation contained four important points that characterise such a stability mechanism in a positive way. These are: firstly, conditionality, i.e. the loan, is granted against specific programmes; secondly, the so-called piecemeal allocation, i.e. not all financial resources are provided at the same time; thirdly, control, i.e. continuous monitoring of promises; fourthly, the status of the senior creditor, which, however, gives the lowest possible risk in the case of possible negative scenarios. The central bank considers the European Stability Mechanism to be a very important institution, as in the current situation, additional resources are needed to manage the crisis. The President of the Bank drew attention to the fact that countries in need of assistance must be helped, in particular, through the decisions of the national parliaments and governments of the euro area. At the same meeting, the Commission discussed 12 amendments, opinions and letters received. On the basis of the additional information resulting from the consultation, the Commission has shaped the positions in the draft to clarify the wording of the provisions which raised the points of dispute and to draw up amendments to be tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At its meeting on 28 August, the Committee on Monetary Affairs re-examined the entire draft by provision and drafted ten amendments. As a result of the process, several amendments received from the Riigikogu were taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on to you the important points of the opinions and letters submitted to the Commission. The European Union Affairs Committee drew attention to the need to harmonise the wording of the draft law and the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act in order to give a binding position on matters of the European Union, and pointed to the need for a more general procedure for European Union affairs in the Riigikogu to be more flexible and rapid. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sets out the need to clarify the decision-making process of taking financial commitments to the state, and it is also considered necessary to create an opportunity to deal with important international financial issues in the Riigikogu's plenary session as a matter of urgency and to determine more precisely the limits of the decision-making powers delegated to ELAK. In ÕAO's opinion, the Legal and Analytical Department included proposals on the involvement of the Riigikogu in the decision-making processes of the ESM and on the urgent rules governing the processing of European Union affairs and on the form and procedure of the draft, as well as proposals on the clarification and harmonisation of terms. IRL's referral to the Committee on Monetary Affairs referred to the need that all key decisions relating to the ESM should be approved by the Riigikogu's plenary and that, as the ESM's decisions need to be dealt with in an operational manner, it is necessary to supplement the Rules of Procedure Act. IRL also said in his letter that the Minister of Finance should inform the Riigikogu not only in writing but also orally before the Riigikogu's plenary once a year. In addition, ten signatures sent to Ene Ergma included a proposal not to ratify the ESM Treaty prior to the publication of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the German Constitutional Court. This letter draws attention to the permanent values of democracy, the lack of effective monitoring of the ESM and the risks of participation in the proposed level of financial stability in the euro area. I will now give you an overview of the general issues and questions raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs regarding the draft. A separate issue was the need to separate the draft from the opinions and the Commission. The Commission maintained that the draft could be dealt with as a single draft. In this way, the timeliness and coherence of the decision-making process are most ensured, and no problems arise when a later change is needed. As I mentioned earlier, this position was shared by the Chancellor of Justice. In addition, it was about financial commitments to the State. The Commission's view is that all decisions on financial commitments to the State should be taken by the plenary. The ratification of the ESM will create a legislative framework and take on the first commitments. For each country applying for new assistance, a decision on commitments of property shall be taken again in plenary. This was the procedure for granting stability support (Article 13 of the Treaty). A member of the ESM may submit a request for stability support to the Chairperson of the Board of Governors, who shall authorise the European Commission, in cooperation with the ECB, to assess the threat to financial stability, the sustainability of government debt and the actual financing needs of an ESM member. The Board of Governors may then, in principle, decide that stability support will be provided in the form of financial assistance, and the European Commission will be empowered to negotiate with a view to preparing the MOU. In addition, the Commission discussed draft Memoranda of Understanding and internal procedures for these amendments. This was the view that decisions will be taken by the plenary assembly, except in the case of amendments requiring confidentiality or of a non-essential nature. In that case, the government shall submit the draft to ELAK, who shall have the right to refer it to the full proceedings. A good example of this option is the debate on one of the decisions of the EFSF when the aid programme for Spanish banks was discussed, which, in terms of proportions, could have been discussed in the Riigikogu's plenary session, but which, taking into account the law provisions, remained within the competence of the ELAK. The discussion also had urgent MOUs. The Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure are supplemented by provisions within the framework of the draft which allow decisions relating to the financial stability of the euro area and its Member State to be taken under the urgency procedure, i.e. at one reading, as well as the possibility to add to the agenda. It was also about the boundary between monetary policy and the indirect financing of the government, the activities of the European Central Bank and the issuance of loans and related issues. This is the subject of a debate in Europe. The approach is that liquidity should only be provided through banks. Temporary solutions have been used during the crisis to prevent panic. I will give you, ladies and gentlemen, an overview of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which came from the Commission itself. The Commission has drawn up ten amendments. Amendment 2: In the interests of legal clarity, the Commission considered it important to incorporate the provisions governing the state budget procedure into the State Budget Act. This concerns financing operations to a greater extent than foreseen in the national budget in relation to the amounts paid to ensure financial stability in the euro area or its Member State. The Riigikogu first makes a decision and then the government submits a draft law amending the state budget or an additional budget, the procedure of which is not subject to the time limits laid down in § 41 and 43 of the State Budget Act. The reason is that international commitments must be fulfilled regardless of whether and to what extent they are foreseen in the budget. Amendment 4 specifies that changes to the ESM's authorised share capital, maximum loan volume and financial assistance instruments require a decision of the Riigikogu to participate in the vote and vote. Amendment 6 clarifies the national procedure for the decision referred to in Article 13 (2) of the Agreement. The Government of the Republic shall submit a decision granting financial assistance in principle to the EUAK for a position. In principle, the decision to grant financial assistance does not, according to the Commission, assume the State's financial obligations, but is a procedure which empowers the European Commission to open negotiations for the preparation of a draft memorandum. The Riigikogu, i.e. the plenary assembly or the ELAK, remains responsible for shaping the position on the draft memorandum, regardless of the prior choices made regarding the decision to grant basic financial assistance. From this point of view, the representative of the Republic of Estonia is obliged to observe without reservation. Amendment 7 specifies the provision on the basis of which ELAK may decide that the Estonian representative needs a prior decision by the plenary assembly to vote on a decision on granting financial assistance in principle. The obligation to submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu was added to the government. It also specified when the decision to grant basic financial assistance would be submitted by the government to the Commission: as soon as possible after the meeting of the Board of Governors of the ESM or of the Board of Directors where the matter would be discussed. Amendment 9 deleted the provision which allowed the Government to present the draft MoU for taking a position directly to ELAK. This provision was made because, according to the Government, the deadline for approving the memorandum, i.e. urgency, does not allow the Riigikogu to adopt a decision. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu found that this is an important interference in the right of the Riigikogu to organise itself. The amendment brings questions for urgent decision-making from ELAK level to plenary and provides for the possibility to deal with them more quickly than usual. In addition, the circle of decisions regarding the confidentiality of the memoranda was narrowed, in which case the government may turn to ELAK for a position. The draft memorandum will be discussed at ELAK if their disclosure could jeopardise the ESM's objective of providing stability support. This is the case for secondary market transactions and the recapitalisation of financial institutions. The Commission considered the granting of confidential matters to the ELD to be acceptable for the purposes of secrecy. The possibility of involving the House has also been ensured, as ELAK can always decide to deal with the matter in plenary, and the government can come directly to plenary with these issues. In this case, it is possible to declare the session of the Riigikogu in camera. Amendment 14 clarifies the procedure for MOU amendments. The Commission considers it justified that the possibility of processing MOU amendments in ELAK is limited to matters requiring confidentiality or where the MOU is modified to a non-significant extent and the changes are not linked to an increase in stability support. The government has to justify sending the MOU draft amendments to ELAK in this case, and ELAK has the opportunity to decide that the MOU amendment still requires proceedings in plenary. Amendment 16 specifies the situation when a prior decision of the Riigikogu on the termination of the Emergency Aid Reserve Fund is not required. This is not necessary if the Riigikogu or, in the case referred to in § 5 (2) of the Act, the Commission has approved the draft memorandum in relation to which the Emergency Aid Reserve Fund referred to in paragraph 1 was set up at all. Amendment 18 obliges the government to give an overview of the activities of the ESM once a year at the Riigikogu meeting and to inform the Riigikogu in writing about the events listed in the provision, for example when a country asks for help from the ESM. Amendment 21 complements the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act with amendments that allow for faster processing of draft decisions relating to the ESM, if necessary. An opportunity will be created to supplement the agenda of the Riigikogu's working week or additional session with a draft decision relating to the financial stability of the euro area or its Member State. When requesting an additional meeting, the Government shall be allowed to submit a draft decision to the proceedings together with the application. Provision shall be made for decisions relating to the financial stability of the euro area or its Member State to be dealt with at a single reading if the Government so requests and the Executive Board of the Riigikogu agrees. The speedier procedure should therefore only apply where necessary and in normal cases, several readings, deadlines for the submission of proposals for amendments and other procedures specific to the normal procedure remain open. Amendment 22. The Rules of Procedure shall specify the competence of the ELD to give a position on other matters of the European Union. This will provide the basis for taking decisions relating to the ESM to ELAK. Some of the amendments were rejected. I'll get the reasons. Amendment 1 was tabled by Mr Maruste and Mr Gräzin. The Commission did not consider it possible to include a declaration in the draft. This is a non-authorised reservation. Amendment 3 was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. It is appropriate to adopt the decision of the Riigikogu and then to make changes to the additional budget for financing operations related to the ESM to a greater extent than the amount determined in the state budget. Arguments: Time criticality and discussion of the budget at three readings. This possibility already exists in the State Budget Act to resolve or prevent the financial crisis in the case of the use of the stabilisation reserve. Amendments 5 and 8, tabled by the Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group respectively. These proposals are intended to bring the decision on financial assistance to the full Riigikogu. The Commission considered that, if the draft decision referred to in Article 13 (2) of the Agreement was approved, neither the Republic of Estonia would assume any material obligations nor authorise the representative of the Republic of Estonia to determine the terms and conditions of the financial commitments, therefore the Government would submit the draft directly to ELAK. Amendment 13. Igor Gräzin wished to add a paragraph to the draft, according to which the negotiation of the memorandum and the subsequent conclusion of the memorandum should be one of the preconditions for a free or, in principle, free market economy country. The Commission considered that this could not be supported. It was also the only proposal that did not receive any votes of support in the Commission. In addition, the Central Party Group and the Socialist Group tabled a number of amendments aimed at increasing the competence of the Assembly when adopting or making amendments to the Memorandum, specifying the termination of the Emergency Aid Reserve Fund and informing the Riigikogu of the activities of the ESM, i.e. they requested an oral overview from the Minister of Finance each year in addition to the written overview at the Riigikogu meeting. I am very pleased that the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported all these proposals in part or in substance. Finally. The Finance Committee took the following decisions: The committee shall submit to the Riigikogu the text of the second reading resulting from the examination of additional background information, opinions and amendments received between two readings and shall propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading be terminated (by 6, with 3 abstentions). When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be put to the final vote at third reading (by 6 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U11	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Let's start asking questions. The first question is Mr Leinammell. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U12	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, This morning, there was also a translation problem or a quality problem, as well as the ability to translate quickly enough when decisions need to be made within 48 hours, for example. We heard from the Minister of Finance that the government works almost in English. I am pleased to congratulate you for saying that the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia will still remain with the Estonian language. What are the possible solutions, or did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss how quickly a quality translation would be completed so that the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Grand Hall could discuss the matter in their own language, so that we could understand ESM documents unambiguously?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U13	Thank you, good questioner! That's a good question. True story, this has been discussed in recent days. We asked the Legal and Analytical Department to comment on this. I have information on that. § 158 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu provides that the language of the Riigikogu is Estonian. Paragraph 2 states that drafts, enquiries and other documents are submitted in Estonian. Paragraph 92 of the same Act refers to the presentation of a bill and an explanatory memorandum. Paragraph 4 of this section specifies the issues related to external contracts. Aaro Thought must ensure that the draft decision and the explanatory memorandum are in Estonian for urgent questions. I would point out that the draft decision and the explanatory memorandum must be in Estonian. In principle, other materials related to the draft decision should also be in Estonian. If, for some reason, it is not possible to provide a translation, let alone a quality translation, you must accept foreign language materials, but the decision and explanatory statement must in any case be in Estonian. It is justified by the fact that the Riigikogu would not be able to participate effectively in the decision-making process for procedural reasons. In such a case, a summary of the foreign language material can be provided in the explanatory memorandum. During the discussion of the draft act, the representative of the Government shall present a report explaining the background to the decision to be taken. ÕAO also points out that the requirement of Estonian administration extends to both the plenary and the committees. If, in certain cases, the ELAK decision replaces the Plenary Assembly decision, the principle of Estonian administration should also apply to the ELAK procedure, as in the Plenary Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U14	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, My question may be a little connected to the previous question, but maybe not. The word 'financial assistance' runs through the bill and the explanatory memorandum, which inevitably leads to thoughts of irrecoverable assistance. However, this is not the case, we are still talking about a loan, not financial aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U16	It wasn't a question, it was an opinion. But I fully agree with you that this is not a non-refundable aid, which Estonia, for example, will receive in 2007-2013. Year 2010 or 2014-2020. In the course of the financial perspective of 2008, when we get the money that we do not have to give back. The ESM is, as I said in the report, a cooperative bank. Its members have, on the one hand, the obligation to put money in it according to their capital key and, on the other hand, they have the right to apply for money. This right is, in turn, governed by certain decisions adopted by the Board of Governors and the Board of Directors, and later by national parliaments. This money is not really non-refundable, but it must be repaid within a certain period of time. Financial aid is a general concept. There is no conclusion from this concept that this money should not be repaid. That money really has to be paid back, there's no way out of it. For example, there have been situations in which agreements with the IMF have not always been complied with for an acceptable period of time. If there has been an agreement for five, ten or 15 years, then the agreement has sometimes not been fulfilled in time. But current information does say that there have been no situations where the IMF would not have been paid back. So once again, the beneficiary of the loan must definitely return this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U17	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U18	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Europe is currently discussing, among other things, whether the Treaties on the European Union should not be amended. Many countries are also discussing what to do when the European Union falls apart. So do our northern neighbours Finns. Financial opportunities in the future will be discussed. Have the issues been addressed in the government coalition and, of course, in ELAK from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U19	Thank you. I see that today the line of questioners is relatively long, and it may be expected that it will be even longer. We will certainly try to stick to the specific amendments and to the ESM. When it comes to whether, in recent days, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed some of Germany's proposals, which Merkel has highlighted, it must be said that it has not discussed. There are, of course, further questions as to whether, if the Treaties are to be amended, there should be a referendum or not. This debate is ahead of us if this issue should come up on the agenda. But the honest answer is that we did not discuss the European treaties as such during the negotiation of the ESM amendments, although the day before yesterday the session lasted for five hours and the ESM has been discussed several times in previous sittings, which has been our main topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U20	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U21	Thank you. You mentioned that the ESM operates on the same principles as the IMF and that no beneficiary of the IMF has so far been indebted or has not failed to repay the aid received for at least some time. Are the principles on the basis of which the ESM grants aid to the beneficiary similar to those of the IMF? Perhaps to be specified: is there a limit to the amount of aid for one, and is this limit for the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U22	Thank you. That's a good question. I do not know whether all members of the Riigikogu have a memo designed to compare the future ESM and IMF. I'll take this opportunity to give you an overview of the hubs of both organizations. First of all, Estonia joined the IMF in 1992, and we should presumably join the ESM in 2012. The objectives of the IMF are to foster financial cooperation, facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of international trade, promote the stability of exchange rates and help create payment systems, as well as to give members confidence. The objectives of the ESM are to mobilise financial resources and to provide financial stability support to members under strict conditions. There are 188 IMF members and the ESM will have 17. The IMF has a special currency SDR (special drawing rights), the ESM has the euro. The total IMF capital is 364 billion dollars, which is close to 300 billion euros. The total capital of the ESM is 700 billion, of which the paid-up capital is 80 billion. The IMF has paid up the entire quota. Both have additional guarantees. The IMF has additional guarantees of one trillion dollars, or EUR 824 billion, and ESM 620 billion. The maximum loan volume that both organisations can issue: the ESM can actually deliver EUR 500 billion, while the IMF can deliver USD 750 billion, or EUR 611 billion. Now Estonia's participation. It is certainly interesting that our participation in the ESM will be EUR 1.3 billion and that our participation in the IMF will be EUR 115 million in direct participation, which is now increasing to nearly EUR 300 million. We are paying up EUR 148.8 million in real money from the ESM of 1.3 billion. Estonia's participation in the ESM is 0.186%. In the IMF, which consists of 188 countries and covers the vast majority of the world's countries, our participation is 0.04%, which will increase to 0.051%. Let us remind you that, some time ago, we decided to increase our participation in the IMF in accordance with our commitments. There wasn't much talk about this in society, but that decision has been made. It didn't sound like we were putting more than 150 million euros into the IMF. The share of votes in the ESM depends on the capital: our share of capital is 0.186% and 0.186% is also our share of the vote. In the IMF, our share is slightly higher. The share of capital will increase to 0.01%, but our share will be 0.07%. Of course, it is good to point out who has the highest share in these organisations. In the ESM, it's just over 27% in Germany and 16.75% in the IMF in the United States. Both organisations review the issue of capital adequacy every five years. The IMF has just reviewed it, and that is why our participation increased. Now the board of directors. Both organisations have similar governance: the ESM has a Board of Governors, a Board of Directors and a Managing Director; the IMF has a Board of Shareholders, a Board of Directors and a Director-General. The table shows that there are similarities and also differences. The IMF is a broader organisation than the ESM. This was a brief overview of the operation and statistics of these two organisations. That's good to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U23	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! From your report, we heard that, if this draft is approved, Estonia wants to make two contributions this year: 30 and 30, or 60 million euros in total. It's done with playful ease. At the same time, we remember that, if the pay of teachers was to be paid as much as this, it was by no means possible to find it. This year, the financial management law of the local government unit was extended, i.e. local government restrictions on borrowing remained in force. Is it the coalition's general view that if money is needed for the economy of its country or for its people, it will not be found anywhere, but if asked in Europe, it will be found with 30 or 60 million playful ease, 1.3 billion too? Is it the view that we are not helping the economy of our country under any circumstances, but we are handing it over to Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U25	Like Jürgen Ligi, of course, I could ask you where you read all this. I remember him answering like that here. But you put quite a few things into one. I've tried to explain all this before, according to my memory and my possibilities. First, I'm gonna get rid of the fact that you were talking about share capital and then 1.3 billion. Let us see that the 1.3 billion really is money that is actually paid in, it is close to EUR 150 million, namely EUR 148.8 million, and the remaining money is a guarantee, it is not a real financial contribution. It may become a real financial contribution, but at present it is not a financial contribution. I realized that the most important thing was the other side of the question, how to look at these things, whether to put them side by side. They are not comparable; they cannot be compared, although you have tried to do so, a good opposition. Whether we participate in the ESM and whether we raise someone's salary is not comparable amounts or amounts. They cannot be compared for quite a number of reasons, starting from the fact that in one case there are costs, in the other case there is an investment transaction. In one case, we are going to enter an organization that maybe gives us some support at certain moments. These things are not comparable. If, for example, we raise wages, this automatically means an annual cost for us. However, if we make a share capital contribution, it is an investment transaction, it is not a cost for us, it is a one-off transaction. There's an asset on one side and a liability on the other side. You can't commit them together. There is no point in combining them and saying that the weight language is either that or the other. The Government of the Republic is trying to address both issues. I call both problems. It is clear that the size of the countries in need is a problem for Europe. Why is ESM created? It is designed to create financial stability. We never know at what point we might need an ESM ourselves. There has not been much talk about this, but three or four years ago, at one of the most difficult times, the Estonian state turned to our commercial banks. The public doesn't know much about this. Two of the three banking conglomerates operating in Estonia turned down to the Estonian state. They said that the situation is unstable and they do not want to give money to the Estonian state. The situation was very difficult. Estonia had been very conservative; it had built up reserves in Estonian terms over time, but these reserves decreased like spring snow. Two banks turned down and only one was willing to grant loans to the Estonian state. It's a reality, you can't get over it or around it. We've been in a situation where we've been turned down. The guarantee of the Estonian state or our word of honor has not been such a guarantee that we would have received money. It's a reality. I don't think you can put these things together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U26	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The state has spent more money than it has earned for three years in a row, and the state budget is in deficit. There is now an additional burden on the ESM state budget due to contributions. Can you tell me what this extra cost is being paid for and how much the country's debt burden is increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U28	You read it off somewhere so monotonous. Yes, I can. There are two different things here again. If we become a member of the ESM and participate in the share capital, this will not increase our costs as it is a financing transaction. On the one hand, we have the money that comes, for example, from the reserves we currently have, on the other hand, we are directing this money specifically to the share capital of the ESM. I will not go over the fact that the direct objective of the ESM is to ensure financial stability. After all, ESM's money is not free of charge to the borrower; it also pays some interest for it. I am also not going to talk about the fact that the Estonian state can even earn from it. I am not saying that this is cynical, but although this is not an important observation, there may be a situation where the Estonian state and other participants in the so-called loan association are also making real money. That is not really a goal. The aim is to ensure financial stability. However, in any case, this is not an increase in expenditure. If you put money from the reserve in share capital, the expense will remain the same, your expenses will not increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U29	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you referred to our meeting with the Governor of Eesti Pank. Indeed, we were pleased to hear Eesti Pank's opinion on the ESM, but as we know, the European Central Bank has bought EUR 210 billion of bonds. I am afraid that if the central bank has to assess these problematic bonds, there will be losses that will have to be covered by taxpayers' money, that is, in addition to the guarantee decided today, we may have to cover the losses of the central bank arising from the delivery of the bond market in the future. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you share my fear, or do I see a ghost in vain?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U31	Good Aivar, I share your fear. I don't think you see a ghost. This is a subject that is actually good to discuss. The European Central Bank really buys bank bonds, loans to banks, etc. in its normal banking business. It's a normal thing to do. Another thing is when he starts buying sovereign bonds. The question is, where is the border? Aivar, a good questioner, pointed out this problem. True, the amount for which the European Central Bank has invested so-called money when buying national bonds is currently EUR 210 billion. Of course, it's a risk. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, too, there was a debate on where the limit is that the European Central Bank has begun to participate in public monetary policy, which it should not actually do. That question remained unanswered. That's a very hard line to bring out. Of course, certain Greek bonds have actually already been discounted. This possibility exists that bondholders, including the European Central Bank and Eesti Pank, who is a member of the European Central Bank, may face real loan losses in the case of discounting. There has also been information that the central banks of all Member States are currently working to increase their reserves. On the one hand, the profits, the fees from transactions and investments that the central banks receive, and on the other hand, the agreements with individual national governments so that this money can remain in reserve. Eesti Pank has also announced the amount of money it is seeking to ensure even better stability. I can't remember what it was, maybe a billion euros or more. So far, Eesti Pank's reserves have increased every year, and it has worked with profit if such a term can be used. But to come back to the beginning of the question, it has to be said that these risks lie with any organisation that has troubled sovereign bonds, including the European Central Bank. I answered for a long time, but I tried to convey my thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U32	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The ESM debate has remained very unclear about the functioning of the ESM, not only in this Chamber, but also in the wider population. Promise me I'll read the question off paper this time. Nearly said at first reading: 'I will certainly reject this argument as if the ESM were a cooperative bank. No, it's not. It is not a bank and does not work on the cooperative principle. It's a poetic figure that's actually misleading. ' You, at the beginning of your speech, said that the ESM was essentially a cooperative bank. As we know, there is a difference between a bank and a non-bank. Hence the question: in the meantime, has the Committee on Monetary Affairs received any new information about this figurative principle, or is someone misleading us, either you or the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the Committee on Finance, we really took a lot of time for this debate, and basically it was time to discuss the national procedure. Substantial issues remained in the air that we could not deal with or handled superficially. I have a question that I myself have been trying to clarify, but I have not understood. What will happen to the guarantee we gave to the existing EFSF, amounting to EUR 1.995 billion? We know that the existing Stability Fund has already committed half of its credit capacity: EUR 220 billion if the total credit capacity is EUR 440 billion. What about this warranty? I haven't been able to create clarity here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U35	Thank you, good questioner! I'm going to start with the first part of the question, because it took us a lot of time for the procedures. There are two reasons. Firstly, at second reading of the draft, we are mainly discussing possible amendments and less about the objectives of the draft. We are discussing the objectives of the draft at first reading. Secondly, I was already in that position and I can also say here that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did some of the work that it might not have had to do. Ratification is what the Committee on Monetary Affairs should have dealt with, and the other half could have been more of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I do not remember that we have begun to change our domestic and operational procedures in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But since there was one bill, which is why we dealt with this procedure so much. It is certainly very interesting for the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to hold their own meeting, given the number of debates in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on similar issues. The Finance Committee took hours to discuss nuances. But that's it. Now, on the other hand, the question of how these guarantees blend in or what their symbiosis is. I rely on the information I have, on what I've heard and what I've understood. I asked an analogous question at one point in the Commission from the Minister of Finance, I think at first reading, if I am not mistaken. I understand that I hope that I am not mistaken that the limit on financial liabilities is not currently approximating. To make it easier to talk, I'll give you an example. If, by definition, some amount has been issued through the EFSF, such as EUR 200 billion, then in principle it will "eat part of the future volume of the ESM." I understand they're not buzzing. The other side is how they're going to work together. I'm saying, according to the Minister of Finance, this will be revealed in the near future. One thing is clear: those people who are already on the payroll in the EFSF are also ESM employees. No separate structure is created. Is the EFSF going to be an ESM, a conditional subsidiary, I can't say. I have realised that the two cannot be put together because there are certain legal problems, because one is a private structure and the other is not. They have loans granted on different bases and financial assistance granted on different bases. I imagine that in this debate, ladies and gentlemen Igor Gräzin and Rait Maruste are much smarter than I am. But I'm not sure they know exactly what it's gonna look like. But the fact is, these aren't separate structural units, they're going to have the same team. As far as I am concerned, the situation should be that EFSF, with its loans, will then simply remain an image as such until the repayment of these possible loans. All new payments will be made from the ESM. At the same time, these amounts do not close, there are no double risks on both sides. That's my idea of this thing. I can only convey my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U36	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U37	Thank you. I'm trying to meet the waitress this time and I'm not going to read the question off paper. My question is this: was it wise to leave ratification and internal implementation in a single draft? Let us imagine, for example, that the Chancellor of Justice decides to challenge it and send it to the court. What, then, should we look like in front of Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U38	Please, Mr Sõerd, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U39	Thank you. That is an important question. This was addressed by several groups during the first stage of the procedure of the draft when this draft came to the Riigikogu. My home party also took up the subject in its memo and asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs to clarify this from inside our house as well as from the Chancellor of Justice. We specified this and asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice very specifically whether it saw a problem. Especially in this context, we must always look ahead to one step. For example, if, for example, there should be a situation where, after some time, the law needs to be amended, does that mean that we will open an external agreement? The Chancellor of Justice was clearly of the opinion that he did not see the problem, he could go ahead with one draft, there is no barrage, there is no problem of legal certainty. A very specific question was asked about what would happen if there were to be changes. You never know what's gonna happen. He said he didn't see the problem. I believe I can say that if, for any reason, whatever the cause is, the Chancellor of Justice should go to court, he will not do so for that reason. He's said there's no problem here. On the basis of this information or any other information, no political group represented in the Riigikogu has subsequently raised this issue separately. Everyone has found that it is therefore worthwhile and justified to move forward with a single draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U40	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U41	Thanks! Good waitress! If we take these countries of crisis and the index of economic freedom, it has been multiplied: we see that they are not economically free countries. An economically non-free country does not take money from any broomstick to repay money, all the more so as, unlike Estonia, they do not want to save. No bank lends money to someone who doesn't want to work. He'll promise me I'll go tomorrow, but nothing's gonna happen. What would happen to Estonia if we put our minds together today and did not ratify the ESM Treaty? What would happen besides Jürgen Ligi complaining somewhere that he's got a bad face to look at?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U42	This question, albeit with a slightly different introduction, was also raised at first reading as a subject. Jürgen Ligi was also asked what would happen if we did not ratify. Let's talk! The question is whether the ESM would or would not work in this case. Let's get to work! Starts without Estonia's ratification. The principle is that 90% of the countries must ratify the Treaty. Once this has happened, the ESM will start operating on the day it starts working, whether or not there are rejections in the missing 10%. This is the first part of the question: will it work or not? The second part of the question: what would happen if we did not participate in the programme? It's about being together for good and for bad, Good Juku. Certainly, decisions to participate in the ESM are not easy decisions, all the more so because we have to make real money. Yeah, it's a finance deal. Now it's not a cost for us, it could be a future cost for us if that money really doesn't come back. We are a little calmed by the fact that the IMF has been able to get the money back for a certain period, but what is the risk for Estonia? Those are all the risk decisions! It is an agreement between us that was concluded when we joined the European Union. It can be expected that not all things were foreseen at the time of Estonia's accession. It was not foreseen that such financial crises would occur. You could say that if we participate in the ESM program, we're protecting ourselves to some extent. Yes, we do not currently need to address the ESM at least by deciding on the basis of the information provided by the Government of the Republic and the statistics available to all of us. On the contrary, the government is working to increase reserves and to balance the budget. We don't need to go to the ESM right now. But as I said three years ago, there was a situation where we approached the banks and two of them did not lend. This is the reality of this not being discussed, but it is a reality. Banks found the situation in Estonia to be unstable. Imagine if there were big headlines that banks would not give Estonia money! But it was real, it wasn't just talked about. In fact, by participating in the system, we ensure, on the one hand, that there is no such fall of dominoes. If one stone falls, we may lose our contractual partners in financial and economic terms as well as in political terms. That's why we're in the mechanism. There's no other reason. And that is why all other countries have approved the agreement. We're the last country to handle this. The Treaty has not yet been ratified in some countries, but at parliamentary level, all countries have discussed and approved it. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U43	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The Minister of Finance has emphasised that it must not confuse the European Union and the ESM, which are not European Union matters, but euro area matters. He has also reprimanded members of the Riigikogu for this approach. This draft, however, deals with the ESM as if it were the European Union's affairs and, in the event of these changes, such an approach will be deepened. The question here: what will be the financial perspective for the next budget period of the European Union? I hear that the European Union is planning a significant reduction in the budget and, in this context, in the support to the Member States. Estonia may prove to be a donor in the near future. Is the Committee on Monetary Affairs convinced that Estonia can bear this obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U45	The long question was, the beginning was starting to slip away. First of all, is the ESM and the European Union separated or together? It's a matter of interpretation. I do not know what the Minister was on about, and I do not want to oppose the Minister of Finance under any circumstances, that is not my intention. Maybe he was based on some information. It is, of course, easy for me to say, here in front of you, that we did not discuss it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Indeed, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we did not discuss the financial perspective in the context of the ESM. But I'm still trying to answer. For me, these aren't different things. The ESM participants, the investors of the ESM, are the same members of the European euro area, and the ESM is actually being put into practice to ensure financial stability for the same countries in the European euro area. The mechanism is designed to ensure the financial security of the euro area. In this context, it seems to me that they are very interrelated. Perhaps, on the basis of some other interpretation, the Minister of Finance has found that they are unrelated, and I quite believe that, from some other interpretation, he may be right. The second part of the question is the financial perspective for 2014-2020. All Member States are working hard to achieve this. What does one multi-annual budget of the European Union really mean? This means that everyone pays something in accordance with their own contributions and different agreements. Some part of it eats the machine, or bureaucracy, and the rest of the money is distributed. That is, in a simplified way, the idea of the European Union's multiannual financial perspective. The perspective for 2014/20 is currently being discussed, and each Member State is trying to obtain the maximum of the funds concerned. Estonia has been a "net recipient" country in 2007-2013 and will continue to do so in 2014-2020. This will make it much easier for us to decide on possible financial assistance agreements that we are a net recipient country. Between 2007 and 2013, it should be the case that Estonia contributes nearly one billion euros to the common pot in the form of various contributions. However, during this period, we will receive at least 3.5 billion structural support. Look, the money we get is not a loan. It's money we just get that we don't have to pay back. It is easy to say that in this financial period, which ends in 2013, we will receive three against every euro we have given to Europe. Whatever this money does, whether subsidies are granted to farmers, the way is done for every euro we have given, we get three in return. It makes it much easier for us to decide. Those who are net contributors are much harder. They give a lot to this common pot, and they get something back from it, but much less. It is much harder for them to make the decisions that we are talking about, because they always give more than they can. You can always ask why they give when it's a clean cost to them. Estonia is indeed currently operating in the light of the financial period from 2014 to 2020 as well. I know the ministers are negotiating very thoroughly, but this is a completely different subject, we have gone a little far from the ESM. But it was good to point out in this question that we are currently very clearly net recipients. Whether this will ease our decision or not, we are net beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U46	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U47	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, first of all a great deal of recognition and thanks for the very thorough and substantive answers. My question concerns the callable capital of the ESM, which is Estonia's obligations. Whether it becomes real at some point or not, I mean paying out this money, how do you and the entire Committee on Monetary Affairs see this as having an impact on Estonia's credit capacity? Does it affect our credit rating or does it not have an effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U48	As far as I can tell, it doesn't have a direct effect. As far as I am concerned, this should be an off-balance sheet liability, I mean in favour of guarantees. The real financial contribution does not affect our rating, as it is a financing transaction. Our reserve is going somewhere in share capital, and our position will not change in itself. This should be effective if there is a real situation in which potential investment in losses should be borne. Then it's definitely gonna work. In this case, Estonia will need to (a) either reduce its reserves or (b) take out loans. And then you can say that there are going to be mechanisms that are very clearly affecting our position. At the moment, as far as I can tell, taking our position with regard to the ESM doesn't change our ratings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U49	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U50	It's a trick question that could either be yes or no. I'll try to answer you later. Estonia's decision to participate in the financial package is, of course, difficult. In particular, knowing that this money will be directed immediately to the beneficiary countries and that our risks will start to increase. Greece is a good example in this respect that certain promises it has made have not yet been fulfilled. They have worked hard, but not to the extent that they have promised. It's hard to make decisions about all this information, it seems like a mess. But on the other hand, there are also very positive examples. After all, in recent periods, loans have been granted to Ireland, Portugal and Latvia. The IMF also provided loans to Latvia. These are very positive examples that promises have been kept, and now we are no longer talking about these countries in this sense. And I'm not talking about the reason that promises have really been kept. I used the word 'cushion'. However, I am of the opinion that today we have not only the right but also the obligation to join the ESM and I very much hope that this is not a tangle. I very much hope that those who, after certain periods of time, monitor the commitments made by potential countries wishing to receive assistance and, accordingly, either allow or do not allow for new credit injections will, on the one hand, be very rigid. They have made this clear, and it seems to me that there has been such a mental change, just in the last six months. If last year seemed to be the last year, I am thinking of Greece in particular, that the beneficiary of the loan was always counting on the fact that the loan was definitely being extended, then it is now that it has become very rigid. From the information published in the press, I would like to say that the Greeks do not want to be in their shoes, either as legislators or as ordinary citizens. I imagine it's really hard for them. I also mention that it is not known whether we will succeed, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs is very interested in going there. We would like to meet our Greek colleagues and the Greek Minister for Finance, if possible, again this autumn. Well, life will show if it's possible, but it would be really good to look into it on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U51	Thank you. Yeah, it was. Eiki Nestor raised this issue earlier in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Social Democrats proposed an amendment to this. There was a lot of talk about it. Discussions with lawyers were held several times, including with the people of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. If these changes are made, there will be no such situation that you have made a commitment, but you will not comply with it. That's not the kind of problem you'd have to have.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U52	I have a request for you. We reject this principled decision, the approval of the memorandum with its financial volume and the amendment of the memorandum. Would you briefly summarise before the Riigikogu plenary what the plenary will decide in the future and what the Committee on European Union Affairs will do if the government can ask the Commission to do so and the Commission considers that this does not go beyond their competence and that they can decide? Very briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U53	I'll try. That's a good question. If a country encounters problems, Article 13 of the ESM Treaty provides it with a request for assistance to the ESM leaders. Then they try to determine whether he needs help, whether he has problems, and what extent they are. To this end, the so-called first decision will be taken to examine whether the application has a point. There must also be a mandate to take this decision. From the point of view of almost all countries (we have examined this), this is not the competence of Parliament, but of some Commissions. There's no commitment here. There was a long discussion in the Commission about this, we were discussing whether there would be an obligation on the state at that point. The Commission considered that this is not the moment when the obligation actually arises. Negotiation will begin. This is the moment when, by definition, the Government of the Republic is asking for consent from ELAK so that they can, in turn, give their consent to review the first financial data of the beneficiary country. If, in connection with the review, there is a decision that no aid should be given, there will be no more questions and no one will be dealing with anything else, there will be no more matter. If there is a decision that the problems are serious and a possible memorandum should be started, this is where the competences of this House are really needed. At the time of the Memorandum, the potential borrower will have very clear expectations and potential future commitments will become apparent to donors, which will eventually be formulated by signing the Memorandum. This is where the House comes into play: the mandate to negotiate a memorandum. If the memorandum has been adopted, but it needs to be amended for some reason, then at certain moments the House has an obligation to do so, and at certain moments the Commission on European Union affairs is entitled to do so. When approving or amending the memorandum, in what cases will the Plenary Assembly be transferred to ELAK? This is in principle in two cases. First, it is, let's call it, market sensitive information classified as secret. I have no experience, but I think it is hardly a local decision of a Member State's government. I expect this decision to come from at European level. If the matter has been declared secret, the Government of the Republic has the right to appeal to the Committee on European Union Affairs both for the approval of this memorandum and for possible amendments. In turn, the European Union Affairs Commission has the opportunity to say that, although this matter was declared secret, they consider that it could be dealt with in plenary. Another way to decide in the Committee on European Union Affairs is when changes to the memorandum are made to the memorandum at a later stage, which is not important and does not increase Estonia's risks and loan volumes. If you ask me which decision is irrelevant (there is always a question, which is a decision of no importance), I honestly answer that you might think it is a matter of feeling. What do I mean by that? Consider the example of Greece. If it should happen that Greece turns to lenders and says that it would like to extend its loan agreement for another five years, I think this is an important change because the risks of the ESM are increasing. So that we do not misunderstand each other, I would remind you that the Estonian state does not give money, but the ESM gives money. We're just one guarantor in the ESM, but being a guarantor increases our risks. If Greece, for example, wants to request a five-year extension of the loan, I think this should be discussed by the House. This is an important change because our risks will increase for another five years. Another example: Greece has committed itself (this is really just an example) to losing 20,000 jobs in the public sector by 2012. Now he comes to the lenders and says that he has met all the objectives he has been set, but he has not lost 20,000 jobs, but 17,000, 10% have not yet lost, and he is asking for the possibility of extending the deadline for half a year. My gut tells me that this is a non-essential change within the meaning of this Treaty, which this House should not meet to discuss. They're such nuances. It's a matter of feeling. But, in principle, it can be said that, when it comes to adopting and amending the memoranda, it is always the House that should take the decision. I cannot appreciate the likelihood that there will be secret or urgent discussions, but rather the developments in the beneficiary countries have shown that this process has been a long-term process, there has not been a need for such quick decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U54	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U55	Thank you. On the basis of the example of the cooperative bank, I am pleased to agree with both the Chairman of the Monetary Commission and the Minister for Finance that the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposed by the Government is poetic. As for the brief and concise comparison of the IMF and the ESM you have provided, I will give you a good opportunity to go a little further into the details, because I did not get an answer to my question. Maybe the design of the question was a little complicated. Let me rephrase the question a little bit. Countries benefit from both the ESM and the IMF. Are the principles of how much money can be given to a single country similar or different in these organisations? Does one of them have any limit to that and, if so, does this limit apply to the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U56	Thank you. I'll take a look. My memory isn't so good that I can tell you everything right now. I'm answering based on the information I have right now. For the IMF, I owe you an answer. I haven't done an in-depth analysis. I have the memos we've asked the IMF about comparisons. I do not have any information on what the IMF's so-called maximum possible loan to a single country is, but, according to my data, the ESM has not been subject to such a restriction. I hope I'm not wrong when I say, by memory, that there is no restriction on the ESM. For example, if some countries have a desire to become liquidity aid, half of the volume of the ESM in order to maintain financial stability, is it always worth looking at the extremes? I don't think so. Since the objective of the ESM is to safeguard financial stability, it is therefore possible that a decision may be taken to grant half of that capital to a specific State. I hope I wasn't wrong right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U57	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U58	Thank you. Speaking of the IMF, the cooperative bank and the ESM, the absence of this restriction makes the ESM different. You have also stressed that at present the financing transaction, or the ESM contribution, does not affect the balance of the state budget. Have you discussed that if the so-called cooperative bank, or the ESM, were to actually get the loans sour, at which point the so-called financing transaction decided today would actually have to be reclassified in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U59	I have never once taken the opportunity to say that we did not discuss this in the Commission. It would be easy for me to say this now, but I will try to answer you more substantially. We didn't discuss it, but I'm still trying to convey my opinion. I think that should it happen that the money does not come back or does not come back at the pace that has been expected, and we should then take as a basis that the money does not come back at all, I think that this is the moment when the investment (if such a concept can be used at all) must also be included in the costs. It's a general logic. This is the case in business, and also in the process of exporting public financial entries there is, I imagine, an analogous situation. Let us take as an example a holding in a company. In one company, Estonian Air, I just read, it's a big minus. It is a good question whether the Government of the Republic has transferred all the investment it has made in the form of share capital to zero. I think the auditors are asking him to transfer these investments to zero. The question then arises that a company with zero or even negative share capital cannot exist. Here comes the constructions. Should I give you more money? The Government of the Republic has said that no more money is being given. Maybe that minus might not be big enough to eat up the share capital. As a general rule, it is the auditors who assess the likelihood that this money should be included in the costs. If there is a clear decision, I do not see the possibility that the Estonian state will not do so. If, for example, he has invested in reserves, you simply have to say that there has been a cost. Yes, there has been a cost of that amount, and reserves have vanished to that amount, if you would say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U60	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U61	Thank you. I will further develop the subject on the basis of the two previous questions. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have discussed very thoroughly what the internal procedure will be, given the current volume of the ESM, which is EUR 1.3 billion. The majority of this capital is called up, not paid-up. It has also been said that the volume of the ESM may not be enough. In a previous reply, it was said that since countries have not been granted a maximum aid ceiling, the current volume may not be sufficient, this volume may increase. What will be the procedure in Estonia if the majority of the ESM countries decide that the volume must be increased twice or three times? How do we decide on this issue in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U62	The ESM Treaty and the draft on our tables state very clearly what the Government of the Republic is now obliged to come to the House. We have so far talked about potential beneficiary countries and aid to them. This is one of the decisions that the government must make before the Riigikogu. Another example is really what you just talked about, good Kadri. If, at the moment, no direct aid is granted to anyone, but the equity capital of the ESM is to be increased, for example, from EUR 700 billion to EUR 1 trillion, it is not possible to do so in such a way that this decision is taken by the Board of Directors of the ESM or the Board of Governors and that is the case. This is where the Government of the Republic is obliged to come to the Riigikogu plenary. It is possible to consider all arguments against and against the Riigikogu in plenary. From there on, the question is, where is the limit that is breaking up at the moment, and we say no, we are in no way in favour of it. The short answer is that the procedure is provided for in this very draft. The Government of the Republic must come before the assembly, the assembly will hear all the arguments of the representative of the Government of the Republic and therefore take a decision, whatever it is at that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U63	Good waitress! I do not quite agree with you that there is a theoretical possibility that Estonia will eventually receive some money from the ESM, even a red one. Just because, however difficult it is for us, we are such a small economy that the eurozone will not be put at risk and therefore we will not qualify for ESM aid even in fairy tales. But you said that becoming an ESM bank was a literary figure, and that was the explanation. On 30 July and now three days ago, on 27 August, the Governor of the German Central Bank, Jens Weidmann, told the Wall Street Journal that becoming an ESM bank was a real threat and that Mario Draghi, Italian lobbyists and Spain were working for it. In other words, the Governor of the German central bank says that becoming an ESM bank is a real threat and documents are moving. Is that a literary figure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U64	If anyone says anything in the press, what can I say? It's a literary figure. There is still no decision on this matter that would have become a reality. I believe that all the various assumptions, all the various thoughts that have not become a reality in this sense, that no final decision has been taken, are initially the opinion of someone. Especially if it's still in print somewhere, I think it could be interpreted as a literary figure. Of course, the question is always what a literary image is. That's one side of the problem. Now the other side. You said that Estonia was so small that it would never get a loan from the ESM. I very much hope that Estonia will never have to turn to the ESM with this request. But now there's an interesting question: who's gonna get a loan? On the one hand, it is said that Estonia, Malta, Cyprus, for example, are bringing these small countries. They are said to be so small that the problem that could arise from them would be minimal and would not jeopardise Europe's financial stability. So there's no point in loaning them. On the other hand, it is claimed that the large countries that could obtain loans, say Italy, Spain, which still own 15% or, possibly, 10% of the total Europe, are so large that, if they are granted loans, the ESM no longer has any capital capacity, everything goes to one place. It's such a touch of extremes. In this context, the question remains who the money is meant for. Just the averages? I don't agree with that. I do not know where Cyprus's potential request, which I am aware of, is currently being discussed. It will soon become clear whether there is a need to support Cyprus if the financial indicators communicated by Cyprus to the relevant authorities are such that it should be assisted. I am rather positive in this context that the aim is to keep all the countries in the euro area, regardless of how big they are. There has also been speculation on Greece. After all, this is 2% of the total volume of Europe. What's not 2% like it's gone? But it's a very big sign. To this end, European decision-makers are working very hard to make sure that, no matter how small or large this potential beneficiary is, it is necessary to make sure that aid is really needed. And if help is needed, money must be given in accordance with conditions and promises. I don't think it's a problem if it's a small country. But that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U65	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U66	Today's second session will vote on the ratification of the ESM Treaty. When Estonia ratifies and becomes a member, there is a risk that sometime it will be decided to increase the volume of the ESM. You assured me in the previous reply that this decision would then have to be made in the Riigikogu plenary. Where's our country's border? Are we ready to triple our volume, for example? Does Estonia actually have a chance to say no in this situation that our 'no' block the increase in the volume of the ESM in other countries, or are we in a position to say no, but that our rejection will be rolled over?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U67	It's hard to speculate. This is the same question as to whether Estonia is able to say no to participating in the ESM today. In principle, of course, it is possible: if the Riigikogu plenary takes the view that it does not support it, then it has not been said. Consequently, it is also possible to say no when increasing volumes, when we are already in the mechanism. Next question: is it worth doing? What does that mean? These are already questions that can be discussed when such a situation arises. I think theoretically you can always say no. The question is in practical terms: is this the right time to say that for us the limit is at hand, whatever the reason is, or do we state that yes, we are increasing volumes. In my opinion, the simple answer is that if, for whatever reason, the House still wants to take a decision that Estonia will not increase its capacity, then there is an opportunity. Otherwise, it would not have been envisaged to bring the matter to plenary and it would have been stipulated that the Board of Directors would decide in the ESM to increase capital and that this decision would automatically oblige all participating States to make a new contribution. That's not the way it is! We know very precisely what commitments we will assume if we vote today. We will not assume future potential commitments, such as the fact that the volume of our payments must increase three times, as you said. It's not like that! I think we'll always have a chance to decide. We were talking about share capital now, but we are also talking about taking a stand in the discussion of MOU, a specific beneficiary country. Suppose we've taken the decision to participate in the ESM, but we'll always have the chance to say for some reason that we're not participating in this MoU. We're gonna have this chance. There will then be certain mechanisms for how the ESM will continue to function if a country has said no. He's an ESM member, but he doesn't want to be in a particular MoU. There are rules for such a case. But there's always a chance to say no. If it weren't for that chance, we wouldn't have any reason to discuss it here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U68	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The list of differences in the procedure for decisions of the Riigikogu relating to the financial stability of the euro area states that only the commission and political groups can propose amendments. Why does the Committee on Monetary Affairs rule out the possibility that non-attached MPs or, for example, those elected as individual candidates in the future will be able to propose amendments? How does the Commission justify this unequal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U70	We are talking about a situation where there is an urgent procedure. I would like to point out once again that possible future adoptions of the MoUs, as well as changes to the MoUs, can always be done under the ordinary procedure. And in the ordinary procedure, everything applies to it: multiple readings and amendments by all, as usual. But there may indeed be a situation in which the matter becomes urgent, and in that case certain paragraphs of our Rules of Procedure Act that provide for urgent, extraordinary, one-reading draft procedures will apply. The Commission was discussing at length whether we should now provide for differences. A good colleague, Eiki Nestor, said that we should not make any structural changes to our Rules of Procedure to deal with the ESM, and I agree with him: the changes should be made as minimal as possible. The price of this solution, however, I am talking here about the price in quotation marks, is that amendments can be made by the commission and the political groups. The first draft text, which the Committee on Monetary Affairs brought to the table, was also in the Committee on European Union Affairs, but we also took out the Committee on European Union Affairs in order to remain very clearly within a certain section of our classic, previously agreed Rules of Procedure. These Rules are based on our former agreement that, in such cases, in urgent ad hoc procedures, only the political groups and the lead committee have the right to propose amendments. There was also a discussion on the original proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to vote on the amendments later in the large Chamber. I will be honest with you that the first vision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was that only those proposals that have been approved by the Commission could be voted in the large Chamber. Therefore, if the proposal has not been approved by the Commission, it is not possible to vote. However, a good colleague, Eiki, said that we are still following the whole logic of the Rules of Procedure, and if you look at the amendment on your table, that is what has been said and referred to a specific paragraph which says that it is possible to put all the amendments to the vote if they have received at least two votes in favour. It is always a duty that the proposal must receive at least two votes. That's the price of slingshots in such cases, if you could say so. By the way, this amendment was adopted by consensus, and no one in the Commission opposed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U71	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U72	Please, colleague Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U73	Honourable Chairman! Dear waitress, Does it not seem to you that by joining agreements of the kind of ESM, whose future perspective is relatively confusing, Estonia will find itself in a mess of state involvement, which, if well-intentioned, will not be able to recede?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U74	Thank you. That's a good question. I don't think either one of them is misleading. It's easy for me. I'm based on the bill's explanatory statement. I have quoted the draft explanatory memorandum, which one of the first pages of which does not have to go at all far, it is very clear that it is a cooperative bank. After all, the purpose of the explanatory memorandum is to convey the meaning and logic of the draft law. Jürgen Ligi is right when he says that neither the ESM Treaty nor the ratification treaty contain the word 'cooperative bank' anywhere. It is contained in an explanatory memorandum that conveys the meaning of this organization. This idea, I repeat, is next. The founders of this organisation are the countries of the euro area and only those who are members of that organisation can receive assistance. In principle, the ESM does not have the right to grant aid to countries outside the euro area, whether they are located in Europe or somewhere else. It can only provide assistance to its members. This is a figurative example of the logic of the cooperative bank. The logic of the cooperative bank is generally that it itself grants loans to its members. There is no contradiction here; rather, it is an explanation of what I have tried to convey to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U75	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Europe would not do an ESM if it was not necessary. If necessary, it is likely to be used. Our participation in the ESM is approximately EUR 150 million in cash and the total amount of our claims is EUR 1.32 billion. The state's budget strategy says that Estonia can also bear the obligation to participate by borrowing. Do you know what the government debt burden could be in relation to meeting our contractual claims, for example, over the next ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U77	Thank you. It's pure arithmetic. I don't have a calculator with me. But there's no weight here, I'll tell you how to calculate it. On the assets side, we have our reserves and the liabilities side will have future liabilities, which will also increase (with an ESM of EUR 150 million over the next few years, i.e. five instalments, each instalment of approximately 30 million). You can calculate whether, for example, in such transactions, we may need to borrow. Borrowing is also one way to make a contribution. In that case, your loan burden will increase, but on the other hand, your capital will increase on the assets side because some investment has been made somewhere. The second option is a reserve that is transferred purely. It's pure arithmetic. I haven't done this percentage calculation, but it's not hard to do in itself. However, if the Riigikogu has adopted this draft as a law and given the Government of the Republic a right and also an obligation, it is the task of the Government of the Republic to fulfil the obligation that the Riigikogu has placed on its shoulders. The way he does it, either by moving his cash flows, moving his reserves, or taking a loan, it's his choice. We have given him certain budget limits, and within these limits he can be delivered. The way in which capital changes take place, the Riigikogu no longer follows in principle. We will learn about this later from statistics and reports, which the Minister of Finance will also tell us about. But the daily cash flow activity is not within the competence of the Riigikogu; it has never been before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U78	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In your introductory speech, you said that declarations or reservations are not acceptable for this agreement. This is possible if we stick to pure international law. However, since this international law regulates the internal affairs of the European Union, I ask how much such a ban is compatible with the existing internal law of the European Union, in other words, whether or not the Maastricht criteria are still in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U80	Thank you. I'm going on a slippery path when I start debating the law with the head of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, knowing his earlier career. I already feel like I'm going to lose, but I'm still trying to answer. I will also try to answer this question in the context that was addressed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In particular, it was pointed out that later lending should be based on the Maastricht criteria. If they're not filled in, you don't get a loan. The Minister of Finance in the Commission said that, in principle, the Maastricht criteria are the basis for getting into a common family. There's different nuances now. It's very interesting, in itself, that once you've gotten into the family, you'll be subject to these requirements, just like they don't apply anymore. If we look at budget deficits and inflation rates in the European Union, we can see that quite a few countries have them higher than the Maastricht criteria. At the same time, this process does not work backwards; these countries will not be expelled from the euro zone. There have been rumors that some countries have entered the euro zone on the basis of false data. At the moment when the euro zone was entered, it did not actually meet the Maastricht criteria, but it was not known until later. This did not lead to the 'exit' of these countries. Of course, different attributes are being monitored. The Committee on Finance has already begun to deal with the fiscal agreement. With regard to budgetary balance, we will come here in the autumn with an amendment to the draft law, which has finally been approved in Europe. It is written in black in white that the budget deficit must not exceed a certain level. It's actually been natural, it's all understood, but it hasn't been written in the basic laws. Now it's written in black in white. But the design has been, yes, such that if you've already gotten into the family, but your deficit or inflation is higher than promised, it doesn't cause you not to get a loan or even to leave this union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U81	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! § 9 of the Bill states that the decision is made by the Riigikogu if the financing operations related to the topic are carried out in a larger volume than that provided for in the state budget, and later the Government of the Republic submits an additional draft budget. At the same time, it states that the procedure for processing the additional budget does not prevent the implementation of a decision taken previously. Aren't we going to write in this bill at least theoretically for a weak spot? Due to some circumstances, the additional budget may not be adopted or processed and the decision taken earlier by the Riigikogu may thus be deprived of budgetary support. Was this an opportunity for discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U83	Good waitress, honourable former member of Res Publica! I have a simple question for you: do you agree with Minister Ligi or not? In spite of the initial assertions, will EFSF and 2 billion be replaced by ESM and 1.3 billion or not, and will they sum up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U84	Good colleague! I'll start with the first part of your question. You'd like to know why the Minister of Agriculture pays for France and anyone's subsidies. I feel like I'm telling deaf ears. I repeat, please try to understand! Estonia is a net beneficiary; Estonia does not pay for anyone else's benefits, but Estonia receives more than Estonia gives. Try to understand it, it is spoken in Estonian. Whether you agree or not, this is your own interpretation. It is not even a question of whether the glass is half full or the glass is half empty. It is a fact that Estonia is a net recipient country. Believe the statistics, it's like that! The other part of the question: do our responsibilities converge or not? I would remind you that in the EFSF, we have taken on two billion potential guarantees, the direct contribution of which is very small. I'm really sorry! In itself, it is not difficult to go through these papers and then tell you immediately whether or not these obligations are closing down. I repeat what I think: I don't think they're buzzing. But that question doesn't stop us from taking decisions. We have two hours between readings to make it clear to ourselves. I'll take a look at it, I guess it's in everyone's best interest. Right now, I'm not gonna take my time out here because that doesn't bother us making decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U85	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U86	Thanks! I paraphrase our immortal Jürgen Ligi: where did you read it? Where did you read that it is better to support companies that do not comply with any rules, elik in this case, any countries in order not to let them go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U87	Where did I read? Do you want a specific place? I cannot answer your question in this context. If you are rhetorically asking why you should support someone, then I have already responded to this, which are the various reasons why we should participate in the ESM and why the ESM is supporting someone. I would point out here that it is not the Estonian state that supports these specific countries, but that the ESM supports them. It's a big difference. The decisions that we will make today and in the future when approving possible memoranda concern decisions that will be implemented by the ESM. But I guess your question wasn't meant to know where I read it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U88	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U89	Good waitress! I'll pick up where Mr. Gräzin left off. While the creation of the European Financial Stability Fund was discussed in this Chamber, where the Estonian guarantee was supposed to be 2 billion, the Prime Minister repeatedly used the word'reheepap' to your liking. It's like Estonia's making rags. If we join the ESM as soon as possible, we'll save the guarantees. Today, in your reply, you said that, according to your understanding, these guarantees will not amount to 2 billion and 1.3 billion. You later claimed that for you, the amounts involved are relatively negligible, that it does not really matter whether they sum up or not. I think there's a big difference. Nearly claimed at first reading in this remote control that these guarantees would dissociate. Does it really not matter to you whether the Estonian guarantee has a total of 3.3 billion or 2 billion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U90	Good ex-centralist, don't put words in my mouth! I'm not saying these sums are negligible. Not by a long shot! I mean not only 1.3 billion, 150 million is already a very large number. That is a very large number, there is no doubt about it! If you say that Jürgen Ligi mentioned here in one of his earlier appearances that these guarantees are closing down, then Jürgen Ligi and I share the same view and that should confirm this understanding. I was just wondering where I heard it from, so I heard it from the Minister of Finance. These are not small figures! What is the difference between EFSF and ESM, and why has the Prime Minister said that it is wise to join the ESM quickly? There are certainly many reasons, but I would like to mention one of these very pragmatic reasons. One reason is in our capital keys. Our participation in the EFSF is currently around 0.26%. If we join the ESM and the ESM starts working, our capital key is 0.186%, or just under 0.2%. This seems to be a small percentage, but in the case of large numbers it is a very significant amount. This is already one of the reasons why we should join the ESM quickly. But there are other reasons since these two organisations are organisations created on different bases and the ESM base is certainly stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U91	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U92	Dear waitress, My question is figurative, but I think it's quite pertinent. Would you give a friend a new bank loan guarantee if you knew he had already taken a new SMS loan to repay the previous bank loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U93	I ask you in return: are you going to a friend's house to pour water when that friend is your neighbor and the neighbor's house is out of the roof and your houses are 30 metres apart, but the water costs? Water costs, water can't be free. Are you going to pour water to put out that fire? That's my answer to your question. I understand that your question did not concern what was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and that is why I am responding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U94	If you have a procedural question, please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U95	I think that if the house is on fire, the fire department should be preferred, and the countries that are in debt should be approached by the banks to take out loans. That's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U96	It wasn't a procedural question. We're not going into this discussion. But let's keep going. Please, Aadu Black, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, you are always mechanistically identical to the things in the European Union and the euro zone. Do you think that Sweden or Great Britain could be punished by the European Union if they did not participate in the ESM? But I was prompted to ask first and foremost your line on agricultural payments. There are no questions to be asked on this issue now or in the future, because when the delegation of the Baltic Assembly visited Brussels, it was explained to us that Estonia often does not receive aid because of this in at least two important cases, it has been the case that our ministers simply forget to ask what they are proud to ask at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U98	That was a good statement! But why don't you repeat the question in the first half of your story? After all, you went to the agricultural issue and the information received by the delegation of the Baltic Assembly and I listened to it. I'm really sorry, and why don't you repeat your question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U99	Unfortunately, there is no other way right now if Aadu Black has to press the button again and gets the chance to ask a new question. Right now, I would like to ask Priit Toobal's second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U100	Good waitress! One of the reasons why the Chancellor of Justice took the ESM question to the Supreme Court was that, under the so-called urgent procedure, six major participants in the ESM can make decisions without asking the other states for a position. Can the ESM be increased under the urgency procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U101	As far as I know, urgent procedure means 48 hours. This is a so-called 48-hour decision and, according to my data, the volume cannot be increased on the basis of a decision taken within 48-hours. That is the information I have right now, and that is what I am going to vote on today. If you have any other information, be sure to inform me and the rapporteur of the commission as well as the entire Chamber of the Riigikogu. But, as far as I know, increasing the share capital of the ESM is not a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U102	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U103	Good questioner, I really have nothing more to add. I've already given you the same idea twice or three times in different words. I can repeat that again: according to my information, these obligations are closing. I understand that on your question there was a statement that the Minister of Finance also said the same thing. My claim is essentially based on the words of the Minister of Finance. That's my information right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U104	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U105	Good waitress! I just had the suspicion that too often we put a mechanical equal sign between the European Union and the euro zone, and we justify decisions on one matter with the reasons taken from the other box.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U106	Yeah, yeah, yeah! Thank you. Really, it's been so! Yes, of course, in this context we spoke earlier about the ESM and the European Union. The question is how to look. The truth is that when we talk about the European Union and the euro zone, we certainly cannot place an equal sign between them, because there are countries in the European Union that are not in the euro zone. If this construction is further developed, the ESM is an organisation with only eurozone members. So, yes, in this context, the equal sign cannot be used, but it is also a question of interpretation. I would interpret this in such a way that 17 countries in the euro area I do not know what their share of the 27 countries of the European Union is overall, but this is a pretty high percentage, given the financial volume and the volume of the economy at all, is so important that the ESM actually unites the whole of Europe. The difference really is that if it were to happen that a country outside the euro area would want financial assistance, the ESM would not apply to it. What even comes from being in the euro zone is the subject of the next debate. What are the advantages and disadvantages of being in the euro area? This is a completely separate subject of discussion that we could discuss sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U107	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U108	Good waitress! As a result of a number of questions, it has become clear that Estonia has 3.3 billion guarantees if we ratify the ESM Treaty, then also taking into account the EFSF guarantees. However, in answering one question, you argued that these guarantees would not change Estonia's financial capacity and that the price of the loan would not change in the case of a possible loan to Estonia. What makes you say that? That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U109	I didn't understand the question, I'm so sorry! What's illogical? I'm gonna give myself a chance to answer later. In the Committee on Finance, we did not discuss exactly this issue. Our hearing has been going on for two and a half hours and I am really saying that we did not discuss it because I simply did not understand what you thought was illogical. But you have the opportunity to ask an additional question, perhaps you will specify.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U110	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U111	The question was how many Heads of State think that guarantees will not start in real life. Obviously you're not expecting any percentage of me, it's more of a discussion subject that we could discuss. I can't tell you any percentages here. But the logic of the ESM structure is such that it is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that loans are not granted at once, but in pieces. It's very important. The financial behaviour of the State, its transactions and the fulfilment of the promises made will be monitored at all times. There is a big difference between handing in the money now and not, the principle is the promise of money, the promise of money. This will ensure initial control, and if you keep your promises, you will most likely return to normal countries. That's actually the only guarantee. In the case of Greece, no one has said that it would be helpful, but it would not be credible for one uninhabited island. There is no question of such a thing, Europe's goal is that there is stability in this country. We can always discuss why these so-called net contributors still provide aid to the land. The net beneficiary has a clear interest, we are the net beneficiary ourselves, and for purely pragmatic reasons, it is good for us to be in this position. But I don't think it's gonna last long. There's gonna be a time when we're not gonna be. I very much hope that this time will come, because it will show that our standard of living is so high that we no longer have to be net beneficiaries. Then why do net contributors act? I guess it's kind of a symbiosis of different things. One certainly is the pension funds you mentioned, the other is that Europe's rich countries need to sell their products somewhere. You can take a very pragmatic approach: if the people do not have purchasing power in their own country or in other countries, your production will not be bought. There are dozens of similar examples of such national priorities. But it all comes together that Europe basically appreciates common values. The pragmatic side is one side, relying on common values on the other side. Relatively the same values are considered important in Europe. I am not saying that some values in the Middle East, for example, are wrong, but those values that we carry in Europe we understand more or less in the same way. These values are wanted to be preserved, and this is certainly one of the objectives for which action is being taken. Although it is mainly about financial stability, I would like to highlight the whole value chain as part of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U112	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U113	Dear waitress, I have a short question, but you can say right away that this was not discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In particular, why do you think that the structures of the European Union are trying to intervene in the internal policies of the countries of the European euro area, creating all kinds of mechanisms and subjecting other countries to the action of these mechanisms? Why has it not been discussed that perhaps euro area countries can cope with their problems on their own? They have every opportunity to do so, but they have not taken advantage of their internal reforms. They also have a large supply of gold, and in economic and geographical terms, they are in good shape. After all, the world has not run out of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U114	Thank you, that's a good question! I'll start with the first half. Today, you obviously cannot blame me for hiding behind the answer that this was not discussed in the Commission. All this time, that's how I answered one question. I'm still trying to answer. The problem, in my opinion, is what I mentioned earlier. You are asking why countries have gold reserves and could borrow from the markets, etc. The problem is that it is no longer possible to borrow from the markets at one point. That's the problem! Reserves are shrinking, as Estonia did. The same example of Estonia three years ago that I told you about. Estonia had reserves and still has reserves and we hope that they will increase. However, reserves may shrink, and the markets will no longer give you money. Yeah, so we got a bank. But there may have been a situation in the country where it is essentially deeply down to its own revenues and costs. It is the easiest thing for us now to talk about the example of Greece. The government has taken decisions, which have very clearly increased the annual costs, under the direction of anyone, but revenue has not come up at the same time. It is then consciously adopting such budgets, or there has been a lack of knowledge based on some false statistical data. I cannot tell you what this real reason is for them, but I believe that behind everything is still conscious of going into deep minuses, and Greece has no vision of how to get out of it. That's actually the reason. You are asking why the leaders of the European Union are still interfering with the activities of the institutions of the euro countries. I think it's in all our interests. This is the time to consider solutions. Should the budget of each individual country in the European Union be reviewed before or after adoption? What is this step that will lead us to a situation where we are the United States of Europe? This is where I want to draw the line. Europe, for example, has chosen the path of a fiscal treaty: it states that your costs must not exceed a certain percentage. It's written to you, and basically you can say that your right to self-determination will be restricted. Yes, that is the price in Europe today. But our little Estonian state is acting so responsibly, we do not want to live at the expense of future generations. Not all countries have done so. In the old Europe, there are quite a few countries where there is a large budget deficit each year, not to mention the total volume of credit, which is colossal. It is right that we are moving in this direction, at least in the contexts that are currently in force, and we are trying to curb the European countries that have taken large loans for themselves. We may wonder why people are coming to us and to other European countries to tell us that you have to do this now. Aren't we smart? I think everyone's smart, of course they are, but some of them are just blindfolded. This is real life. But I believe that all the decisions that have been taken in Europe and are being taken have in mind the objective of overall stability and a better life in Europe. Only these are the objectives for which efforts are being made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U115	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U116	Good speaker, you said at first reading a few or three weeks ago that we must always consider the possibility that these sums must actually be paid out. I'm asking you: how much chance do you think the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U117	I just read the last Midweek, you quoted me beautifully. That's great! But I can't say the magnitude of the probability, I'm telling you the truth. However, I will stick to my words that every investment you make involves a risk. You can judge what these dangers are, but there's always a risk. Of course, some funds sell you trust. In the private sector, you are told that we invest in such a way that with 95% probability you will never lose more than 5%. At the same time, if this 5% limit is still exceeded, this 5% probability has been applied. At present, all Member States are expected to make efforts. Once again, I would stress that no money will be given by the Estonian state or another Member State; the money will be given by the ESM, to whom we have granted the guarantee. The management of the ESM will certainly make efforts to minimise risks. These are the same principles: loan-to-lending, continuous promise mapping, control over the activities of each period. If anything goes wrong, it's a pre-creditor status. All instances are being watched. But I guess you didn't expect a percentage answer from me. I'll be honest with you, there's always a risk. If you're asking me how great these dangers are, I appreciate them small. If you ask me that, I'll say that the risks are small. Jürgen Ligi has also said that he considers the risks involved to be small. If you ask if the risk is zero, I'll say no, the risk isn't nonexistent. There's a risk, but I don't think so. And it is small because of the action that the ESM will launch in the future and because of what the EFSF is doing now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U118	I'm sorry, performer, the room's alertness has fallen a lot. Please be mindful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U119	I'm about to finish my answer. It may be expected that if the beneficiary country has not fulfilled all the promises and in any case asks for an extension of either three or five years, the question arises as to whether or not it will be given this opportunity. Each time you have to decide whether you accept the loss of an earlier investment and whether or not there is a risk of loss in the air on the day you no longer grant an extension. There are also examples that money is paid back earlier, but when there are bad situations, a separate decision must be made each time. The likely risk is hard to say as a percentage, but I think it's small.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U120	Thank you very much, good performer. No more questions for you. The next step is to get to the talks. I'll be the first to speak to Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U121	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the speaker, who bravely endured before us in three hours, and I think he really did try to answer the questions, the undignified questioners and, in the case of uncomfortable questions, not by flouting or saying that he did not understand the question. So thank you very much. But as far as the ESM is concerned, I'm not in favour of joining the ESM. There are many reasons. Firstly, the ESM, unfortunately, will not, in the long term, help to solve the real problems facing the European Union in a financial crisis. Instead of declaring some countries insolvent now, this inevitability with the ESM will only be postponed. Ultimately, the damage to the economies of European countries, including Estonia, is much greater and the countries that joined the ESM are poorer both by their initial contributions and by the amounts to be recovered later. In the case of Estonia, this could amount to more than EUR 1.3 billion. If I had the inner confidence today that the ESM would help resolve the debt crisis that has arisen, rather than delay the inevitable, I would be in favour of joining the ESM. I'm afraid I don't have that conviction. I quote the comment made by Hardo Pajula, an economist who appeared in Postimees on 31 July, where he quite rightly says that the euro zone is also dependent on the joint efforts of the governments and the five leading European countries, which have now linked the political and economic top to one. And it goes on to say: 'Their cooperation is increasingly reminiscent of two drunkards who rely on each other: insolvent governments stand by loans from insolvent banks, while banks stand up only because of the support of insolvent governments. There is no need for a doctorate in toxicology or in international relations to understand: it is a relatively sturdy construction. ' Secondly, if you've already joined the ESM, there's no turning back. Although today the share capital of the ESM amounts to EUR 700 billion, there is no confidence that it will not be increased. Since it has not been defined how much credit is given to one person in need, it can happen quite quickly that the maximum share capital initially planned is not enough and is intended to be increased. There may be a situation that the Fast Father's Menu novel 'Summer' says: 'Now that we have already suffered so much damage, we cannot stop it. ' In other words, there is a temptation to ask for additional share capital. So the oxygen that Minister Ligi spoke about before the Riigikogu, we will continue to give. There is also no certainty that in a situation where, for example, the parliament of the Estonian state decides not to grant a loan to a person in distress or not to grant it under the conditions laid down, this is not done. In particular, despite the fact that decisions are generally taken by consensus by the Board of Governors of the ESM, it is possible, under certain conditions, to adapt the "extraordinary situation" and to adopt decisions by a simple majority. This leads to the idea that whatever we decide in this Estonian Parliament, big decisions are already made over our heads if necessary. Three. Today's government calls for solidarity with the European Union. The same government, however, does not know what the word'solidarity' means. He has not been able to show solidarity with his people. Because of the activities and failure of the same government, the birth rate in Estonia is once again in a great decline. Compared to the same time last year, 354 children were born in Estonia less. The economic reasons are driven out of Estonia on a massive scale, and as extensive strikes as we saw in the spring of this year have not been seen in the history of Estonian independence. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U122	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U123	Thank you. Please, good colleague Jüri Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U124	Good waitress! The ESM theme has also raised philosophical questions that if we chose this or another route, what would happen? Have you, in your committee or in any other debate, analysed the issue that we belong to the European Union, we belong to the euro area, but if we do not join the ESM, what could be its benefits? One plus could be that we have to pay less money, we don't have to give that much security. But what might be the disadvantages of such a decision? Has it been discussed that we remain in the European Union, that we remain in the euro area, but that we do not join the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U125	This has been discussed, but not at our sittings on 21, 22 and 28 August, because at these three sessions we discussed the amendments that had been received, and also those that the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself had prepared. But since I've been asked such a question, I'm trying to convey my thoughts a little bit. On the one hand, it would be a plus, as you said, that we would really be able to get close to 150 million euros out of a real transfer, and there is no need to provide more than EUR 1 billion in collateral. This would be an initial one-off benefit from possible contributions and guarantees. What would that bring us? It would certainly have been right to ask the Minister for Finance when he was in front of us at first reading. Maybe he even inherited it, I don't remember exactly. But I think it would be a clear sign that we're a little raspberry. I mean, we only want to participate in good projects. In the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020, which is currently being discussed by European countries, we want to participate. In this regard, no one, including the opposition, has told our ministers that do not go to these debates, whether they concern agricultural policy or anything else. It's not said that you don't go in there, what you're still discussing, you don't pay. Nobody said that, neither did the opposition. About what? Because there is a situation in which we are actually going to receive more financial support, and we are rather urging ministers. I will take a few steps forward and predict that if at one point the Minister of Agriculture comes here before the Riigikogu or if the Minister of Finance starts talking about the state budget, you will ask why the Minister of Agriculture traded so few subsidies from Europe for the new financial period. I'm sure that's what you're asking. That's the thing with the two sides. I think that if we participate in the process of the European Union, we must also be involved in projects where, at first glance, we do not seem to benefit immediately. I think that's why we should be in there. That's what's positive about us being in the whole process. This gives us the opportunity to take important decisions in the future and to be a full member of the European Union, with whom our partners take account. As far as the ESM is concerned, we very much hope that we will never have to ask for a loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U126	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U127	Dear waitress, My question is driven by the question of my colleague, Neeme the Great, and by your response to Mr Ratas. This concerns the problems in the euro area and their link with the European Union and its assistance. You very much want to link the two, in my opinion and in the opinion of the entire Group of the Centre Party, these two issues are not directly linked. I'd like to ask you a test question. Will Latvia receive less support from the European Union next year, through different projects, because it will not participate in the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U128	Do you expect me to answer that the Commission did not discuss this issue? If you are looking forward to this, I can really say that this was not discussed by the Commission. However, I must say that Latvia is not a member of the euro zone. Latvia does not have the question whether or not it should participate in the ESM. Latvia is not a member of the euro zone! And, to speak of Latvia, it was by chance that the Latvian state, where the Committee on Monetary Affairs visited on a one-day fast visit during the spring session, was at the will of chance. We met there with our colleagues from the Monetary Commission of the Latvian Parliament as well as representatives of the Minister of Finance and the Central Bank of Latvia. I can assure you that all the parties who sat at a common table with us confirmed that Latvia is making efforts to join the euro zone. This was in a situation where the subject of the crisis, which had reached its ceiling, was very topical in the spring. In the event of such a crisis, Latvia could make a heel turn and abandon the euro zone's request for admission. But at least in the spring they made an effort to come to the eurozone. I think this is the answer to what the potential benefits are.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U129	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U130	Good waitress! I am not asking the Minister for Agriculture why we have few subsidies, but why he promises to pay for agricultural subsidies in France and Greece with Estonian money. That's a problem! Not that we can't, but that we pay for a stranger. But okay! So the answer to what happens to EFSF and ESM guarantees, we don't know now. You've heard they're not buzzing. I've heard they're buzzing. You've heard one thing, I've heard one of you. Did it not occur to you that when we talk about billions, it would be wise to examine whether or not the guarantees would be approximating? I propose that this debate be postponed until we know who heard the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U131	Thank you, Mr President. I hope you will not answer my question, Madam waitress, that this was not discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have a very personal question about a very hypothetical situation. Would you personally give your guarantee of one third of your annual income to a potential customer who has not exactly excelled in payment and financial discipline and for whom you are very much doubting whether he should be granted a loan? It's basically the same case as the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U132	I can only be based on reports from the press. I have read that money has also been donated to parties with large debts, and these contributions have been far greater than one third of the annual salary. They have also donated half a year's salary, if not more, even though the party is in debt. Everyone must look at themselves when making his decision and ask why he does it, why he gives a loan, and what he hopes to receive in return. These are the issues of decision. We will probably be faced with such a question today, as you rightly said, that money is going to help someone. Perhaps there is a difference in providing such assistance only in the interpretation of whether it has gone and goes into the black hole or not. Since you asked me, I take the right to express my opinion that so far it has not gone into a black hole. Maybe I'm a hardened optimist, but I really don't think it's gone into a black hole. If I thought otherwise, it would be very difficult for me to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U133	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U134	Good waitress! To clarify my previous question, I will try to formulate it more easily. If the State has issued guarantees to the extent of half the annual budget, the price of the money lent to it cannot, in any bank's view, be the same as those guarantees not being issued. You claimed that these guarantees did not affect our financial capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U135	I still believe that, after today's ESM decision, the leading rating agencies in Europe and in the rest of the world are not quick to lower our sovereign ratings. We must be based on global dimensions. I believe that our ratings will not fall under this decision. I repeat that one of the parties to the decision is financial stability, but it is also important that these potentially beneficiary countries no longer receive money from banks from the markets when granting the loan that comes into play in the case of the ESM. That's actually the reason. The price of the proposed loan can be so high that the country cannot cope with it. The reason may also be that the guarantees that the countries are putting into effect are very large and are actually in place. But right now I believe that I will not have to eat my own words and that our ratings will not get any worse when we adopt this bill as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U136	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U137	Honourable waitress! This whole European financial crisis is, in fact, an end to the consequences. I think you'll agree with that. However, when we say that the rules have been few, that the rules have been lacking, the Maastricht criteria have actually long been in existence. It is just that some countries have not wanted or tried to fill them in order to keep their financial position stable. Do you not think that this is also missing for this measure and that, in fact, if there is no common fiscal policy within the European Union, it is only a temporary solution and financial stability will not come until these things really come together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U138	That's a very good question! Indeed, I believe that the ESM alone is not the solution as such. Europe has taken a much broader look at things in its activities over the last period. The ESM is part of a large package that should alleviate the current situation and not only mitigate it but also improve it. A true story, as I mentioned earlier, part of this package is a fiscal agreement, in which countries should no longer have the opportunity to live at the expense of possible future revenues, and they would also confirm that they will not do so. In Europe, several countries have promised themselves that their annual costs have been higher than their revenues. This is very dangerous and Estonia has not gone that way. Of course, what's particularly bad is not seeing a perspective on how to get back into normal tracks. This is how very clear tasks have been assigned to the beneficiary countries, how they should get back to normal rhythm. And those countries that do not have any immediate problems are also being forced to establish, as their national legislation, the principles of the same fiscal agreement in terms of budget deficits. The ESM is part of this whole package. True story, as you said when you asked your question, unfortunately we are, on the one hand, really dealing with the elimination of the consequences, but, on the other hand, we are also dealing with the fact that the crisis will not be further enhanced in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U139	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U140	The last questions were all about the risks to be taken. You see, Chairman of the Commission, we had several sincere but not very warm discussions with the Minister of Finance within the framework of this draft, and we also addressed this issue. He brought an interesting comparison, maybe you'll repeat it to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. So where does the Estonian state take a higher financial risk, either by placing 150 million euros in the European Stability Mechanism or by extending the share capital of Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U141	Good Eiki, you actually repeated that on your question. But the truth is, in this comparison with the Minister of Finance, there is a logic. He also said that we are talking about an investment in the ESM: we are giving our capital somewhere else, it is investing in countries in need. The Minister of Finance explained in the Commission that there is a great deal of instances, where the state of Estonia has in time held or invested its capital. He didn't give it as an example there, but I myself made an example here on the floor that we were working on a draft increase in IMF share capital during the spring season. The money that went there is completely real money. There wasn't much talk about it anywhere, I don't know if the press at all reported that we've increased our participation in the IMF. What was this number, I'll tell you right now: it was 150 million SDRs, or EUR 183 million, we increased our participation in the IMF. I don't think most people know that, but it was this year. The Minister of Finance gave an example, however, of Eesti Energia, whose share capital is also paid up, and every injection of money carries a certain risk. It was the logic of the Minister of Finance, it seemed to him that the interest in the ESM was over-enhanced. But that was his opinion. Everyone must have the opportunity to express their opinion, and he did so in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U142	It has been said several times that the ESM and the European Union should not be confused. But I think they're very related to each other. Consequently, my question, too, which concerns a slightly wider and more philosophical issue than there is a specific measure. But as an example, I'm asking. Sven, as Chairman of the Monetary Commission, and otherwise, you have experienced, visited and seen a lot of things in your life. What is your inner conviction, your inner feeling: is Europe now dealing with this measure because, although harm must be suffered, Europe must be kept united in spite of everything? Will it be taken into account that this price must be paid, even though it may be pretty crisp, or will those who think that European pension funds can still be saved without anyone suffering very serious damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U143	It is good that at the beginning of the question you supported to some extent my view that you too see Europe as one, even though there are some countries that are not in the euro zone, but at the same time are members of the European Union. I too see all these countries as very integrated. But the real part of your question: now is the discussion about whether anyone can be ruled out. On the one hand, potential pension investments are by large pension funds. I think that everything is connected and that if we save a single country, guaranteeing financial stability throughout Europe, then there will automatically be a situation where there is a high probability that pension funds will be rescued to some extent. Now the question is, which is the weight that is now taking any decisions. That, I understand, was the point of your question. German pension funds are, of course, very large and they have invested in something, bought some shares. However, I do not think that all the activities that are currently taking place in Europe are based on the lobby of one pension fund or another. I would point out that, in particular, in the case of Greece, investors have already received some fingertips: their bonds have been partially discounted, the nominal value of the bonds has decreased. This has all happened before Estonia now joins the programmes that are going to give money to Greece. There's already a certain minus in there. The EFSF will also support the aid programmes of the Spanish banks, and there are clearly primary loss-making bank holders. It's not like bankers get their money back. Overall, I am convinced that the current intensive action in Europe is not aimed at preventing the collapse of one pension fund or pension system, but rather at ensuring the financial stability of the whole of Europe. Of course, it cannot be denied that these same pension funds are certainly part of all stability. I have not dealt with the x-files, the secret documents, but I am quite sure that, at the moment, financial stability is being sought, the markets are being calmed, the aided countries are being given the opportunity to create a situation where they can come to the markets themselves to borrow money. Portugal, Ireland, Iceland, Latvia, these countries have already returned to the market or have already returned to the market. The aim is to provide assistance at the moment when no other financial assistance is intended to be provided. If you have fulfilled your promises, if the markets and investors see that yes, you can borrow money, yes, this percentage is acceptable to the state, it is capable of serving this loan, what will actually happen? It's probably gonna happen that this country is going to start operating again in the markets, that the markets are trusting it. It can be assumed that the ESM will simply withdraw in this case by fulfilling its purpose. The example of Latvia is very good, he paid, I believe that I am not wrong now; I think it is somewhere in the explanatory memorandum that the early part of the money received has been returned to the IMF. He had the chance. This is the objective of the ESM: to help the country at the moment when it is not possible for it to obtain money from anywhere else or for it to be so colossally expensive that it would be pointless to take this loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U144	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U145	Honourable waitress! Here's the question. I read one paragraph of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism: 'The Heads of State or Government of the Member States whose currency is the euro agreed on 9 December 2011 to move towards a stronger economic union involving the implementation of a new fiscal agreement and stronger economic policy coordination through a new international agreement. ' This Treaty is called the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Economic and Monetary Union and must help to ensure sound financial management on a lasting basis. The ESM, as we all know, does not bring solutions to the euro area. The solutions will only come later and the ESM will literally only maintain this poor stability. My question is: what else is ahead of us? What mechanisms do we still have to join in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U146	Well, I guess I'll just follow my interpretation. You are asking questions that were not discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and you are assuming that I am merely expressing my thoughts. I'm sure you're just trying to get an inside conviction about why you have to vote against the ESM, and you've already come to that. But you don't have to prove it to yourself once more, if you really want to oppose it, it's your free rein. But I suggest: think before the vote, what really gives us to be in Europe, which is provided by the financial perspectives already working and also by the financial perspectives of the future, which Estonia is given by our participation and the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process at different levels in Europe. There was a rhetorical question: what possible aid decisions should we take in the future? When it comes to the ESM, I expect that in the near future we will be discussing potential aid decisions in the Riigikogu. So why create an ESM if nobody needs that money?! I guess I'm not wrong to say that in the near future we'll be discussing possible MOUs. Is there anything else coming up besides the ESM? After all, that was the content of your question. I don't know what to say right now. I hope not. It's life! You argued in your question that the ESM was of no use or has no purpose, but in my opinion it has a clear objective. The ESM will be put into practice in order to contain the crisis that has arisen. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U147	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U148	Thank you, Sven, for the debate on this bill. I would just like to comment that the lobby of pension funds should not be assumed that this is certainly not the case for such large sums of money in comparison with what all our European colleagues feel when they imagine, for example, an Estonian pensioner who has worked his or her days and then suddenly learns that his pension has become almost round zero. This is what is undoubtedly one of the very great triggering forces. If pension funds fall, Europe will be full of very dissatisfied people who have considered pensions. But to come more specifically to what I asked before: how many countries or heads of state do you think there are in the European Monetary Union who really believe that only this paid-up money will be enough and at least some part of the guarantees will not be in place in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U149	I'm sorry. Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U150	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul next, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! Isn't it strange that in those days when we in this Parliament are discussing the future of Estonia, our written press has, as if, distanced itself from this issue? Today, only the Evening Paper will discuss this issue in the daily newspapers. On the seventh page of the daily newspaper there is a small, small button on whether or not the votes are together, and in Postimees there is the story of Ahto Lobjakas Angela Merkel. But, after all, our government has deliberately tossed the subject. Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi, as we have heard many times, is a fast, foreign language and confidential activity related to the ESM. He asks where the legislator is and says that the documents of the stability mechanism are supposed to be so secret that they are even limited to finance ministers. We simply trust the European Commission, the central bank and the IMF's analysis to a large extent. 'What else is this House discussing here? ' he asked. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has avoided the issue as far as possible and has only come up with an amazing saying, as you well remember, that the European stability mechanism must be ratified first and then the details can be discussed. But I ask why a small country like us should pledge EUR 1.3 billion on a voluntary basis at an initial so-called "preferential" price, which could grow to 1.8 billion over the course of 10 to 11 years to save major powers such as Italy, Portugal, Spain, Greece and others, who have been receiving hundreds of times bigger euro grants, acquired large loans and enjoyed a wealthy lifestyle for many years. In doing so, we are actually saving private banks in Germany, France and also in America, who have taken the risk of ruining themselves in the name of greed and greater profits and who are only willing to grant new huge loans to countries at risk of bankruptcy if we guarantee this money. Instead, we, who have stayed away from the loan, are forced to cut infinitely and raise taxes on behalf of the people, to take out the loan and to pay high interest, because the state budget would not be enough anyway. This money will be paid by both the Estonian taxpayer today and the future taxpayer. The small Estonia cannot have any influence on the success of the euro, because our guaranteed 0.18% of the overall volume is still a drop in the sea. However, this represents almost a third of the budget of the Estonian state. Unfortunately, decisions are made for us by six rich countries whose banks have also been the main lenders to countries in the credit crisis. Six rich countries will decide our money! At the same time, the stability mechanism has been granted unlimited powers. He can ask for more money, expand the share capital, and we have an obligation to implement these decisions unconditionally and irreversibly. Only a day ago, SEB's economic analyst, Ruta Arumäe, said that a 300-billion Spanish aid package could trigger new contributions to the ESM. And indeed, if we look at these unlimited powers, then the ESM has the right to sue us, while we, and even the European Parliament, cannot start legal proceedings against them. We have no control over his assets, his possessions, his resources. They cannot be seized, confiscated or expropriated. Article 35 also states that all persons there, from the members of the Board of Governors to the alternates, are essentially unarmed and cannot be held liable. The stability mechanism is a permanent, irreversible and irrefutable bail-in fund provided by taxpayers' money, which imposes unlimited debt obligations on countries. Would it not be more reasonable to use these funds to improve the poor lives of the Estonian people? Even so, our standard of living has significantly deteriorated since the euro arrived, and we are already European champions of inflation and price rises for a long time, and we are going to have a great price increase at the end of this year. Over 100,000 jobs have disappeared, we are still one of the poorest countries in the context of the European Union. Knowing that our finances are in order doesn't help families who are in need every day. Consequently, it is not okay for a fifth of the population to be in poverty if food aid packages cannot be distributed as much as necessary, if more than 63000 children live in deep and relative poverty, if the average pension is falling and the number of births continues to decrease, despite much-hidden parental pay, and if even Albania is ahead of us in the health ranking. There's no point in Ansip and Ligi talking like it's extremely unlikely that all the pawned money should actually come out. We heard in this Chamber a few or three weeks ago and also today the opinion of the Chairman of the Monetary Committee, Sven Sester, that it would not be fair to say that our guarantee might not be in place, that we would never have to spend this money, and that we would also be able to recover the costs. 'We must always consider that we must actually pay these sums. This must always be taken into account by each guarantor,' said Sester. And I'm glad Sven Sester reads Midweek. Indeed, I quoted him there. Unlike the previous speaker, I would still say to you that let us think again today. Estonia does not have much to gain from this process, but it really does have much to lose. And if we are no longer free in our decisions and our money is decided by European banks, then we will no longer be a free nation in a free country, but a tiny piece of land on the outskirts of the United States of Europe. Let us not sell our freedom to the European stability mechanism. This is not the solution to the crisis. The people have not given us the authority to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U152	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Juku-Kalle Raidi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U153	The argument that we must join the ESM is not convincing to me either, because one in five euro in our national budget is irrecoverable aid from the European Union. I'm asking if it's non-refundable. The Minister of Finance could not or did not wish to tell the Riigikogu, in answer to my question, how many euros of non-refundable aid will go back to the countries of the European Union in the form of buying goods and services, thereby boosting the developed economies there. For example, out of 117 million euros in road construction in 2012, the vast majority of this amount is going back as purchases of bitumen, granite, machinery and equipment. So not everything is black and white and it doesn't look like what they're trying to show us. Finally. No impact analysis has been carried out on how joining or not joining the ESM will affect Estonia and the Estonian state budget in the future. Nor have I seen any alternative plans. They say it's that or nothing. Unfortunately, I have to say, better nothin'. The argument that we must join the ESM because the Minister of Finance signed it a year ago is unconvincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U154	Thank you very much. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U155	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We all know that we thought well, but it turned out the way we always did. Unfortunately, today, on August 30, 2012 in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, this has to be acknowledged again. The European Monetary Union was created with specific rules, ideas, principles and objectives. Today, it is clear to everyone that the norm for certain countries has become trickery, trickery and even deception. International financial agreements at the time have been severely violated, whether the Maastricht criterion or the proportion of public debt in the budget. At this point, I quote the academic Endel Lippmaa, who has said that the Soviet Union had common features and that the European Union has common features, that both were subject to specific rules that no one ever met, and that bright dreams were created that never came true. The cutting has become Estonian Nokia, honour and pride, which we should teach Europe. A recent Eurostat survey on incomes in the European Union and in the reference countries shows that income per capita in the Estonian European Union is the fourth place in 2010 after Latvians, Romanians and Bulgarians. During the crisis, income in Europe increased, while in the Baltic countries it decreased. Estonia is therefore among the five poorest countries in Europe. By voting in favour of the ESM, there will be a clear injustice for every Estonian who lost his income in the years of the crisis, when he needed to cut in solidarity. Let us recall that the solidarity of Estonians was only in relation to one another, while wages in Western Europe increased. The rhetoric that, as beneficiaries of European Union support, we are obliged to support South Europe unconditionally is incomprehensible. For example, Greece and Spain are not even close to Estonia in terms of aid volumes. At the same time, the European financial crisis has become a crisis of confidence in the institutions of the European Union and the euro. This crisis cannot be resolved by third, undemocratic institutions alongside existing institutions. The ESM is not a magic wand or even a firewall that solves Europe's economic problems in the long term. He's too small for that, even at the moment. According to SEB analyst Ruta Arumäe, Spain alone claims EUR 300 billion of ESM 500. Someone must say with a loud voice that the king is naked, or the ESM is obviously too small in its present form, to be able to speak seriously at all about ensuring European financial stability. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no point in hiding behind the accusations of populism! The Alliance of Democrats has proposed to all political groups that a referendum be held. We continue to take the same view. At this point, I would like to thank the three groups who responded to our letter. Indeed, the ESM cannot be put directly to a referendum. Instead, the motion of the Democrats was motivated by the opinion of the judges who wrote a dissenting opinion on the Supreme Court's decision, who considered that a question could be put to a referendum. Europe has two paths: either the United States of Europe or today's disintegration, let us call it a very serious and profound reform of governance. Therefore, according to our proposal, we should have asked the people how much they would be willing to give up Estonia's independence in the name of the stability of the euro area. Let us not hide behind the fact that a foreign treaty cannot be put to a referendum. During the referendum on accession to the European Union in 2003, the Estonian people did not give Europe such a wide mandate. If some of the top leaders of the Estonian state do not consider it necessary to discuss this issue in the Riigikogu, we do not consider the discussions held in the Riigikogu to be sufficient. How can a guarantee of EUR 1.3 billion be supported if the Minister of Finance answers that the only credible justification is solidarity and maintaining self-respect, or the principle: with wolves you have to weep like a wolf. Speaking of solidarity, I am convinced that all 27 countries of the European Union are interested in the European Economic Area and its functioning, and not just the ESM are the 17 countries using the euro as a means of payment. For example, Lithuania, Latvia, Sweden or Great Britain are neither less self-respect nor less serious due to their withdrawal from the ESM. Unjustified is the selfless desire of poor Estonia to appear more prosperous than we really are and, if necessary, to use other countries to meet thoughtless and years of overexpenditure, i.e. to fill the ESM...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U156	Good performer, would you like to extend the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U157	Yes, thank you! Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U158	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U159	Secondly, when the European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) was created, where the Estonian guarantee is EUR 2 billion, it was repeatedly explained here in this Chamber that this fund is temporary and will operate until a European stability mechanism is established. It was also said that the ESM's faster procedure is re-heappic. However, it is not clear today whether Estonia will provide guarantees of 2 billion plus 1.3 billion or 1.3 billion instead of 2 or some third or fourth amount. Perhaps quoting Minister Ligit: 'Anyway, the technical details are not yet clear because they are very different legal phenomena. ' In short, the key question is which standards of democratic financial management should be met by enhanced cooperation in Europe and whether they are sufficient for the peoples of Europe to agree with them. There is now a great risk of fatal error, which will lead to greater integration, without noticing that deeper cooperation is already taking place in a significantly changed environment with institutions of different values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U160	Thank you very much. Speaker, please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! If I go out with my time, I'll ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U162	We'll put three more minutes in just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U163	Since I don't have the problem of not getting media time anywhere, I'm talking about the bill. You see, the ratification of this bill has been a strange story. If we look at who's been working hardest against him, this man is Finance Minister Ligi who came here to protect him. He has been working against this bill, in my opinion, for three reasons. The first reason is the question of attitude. Riigikogu as a non-present, lazy, non- foreign languages, a collection of secrets. Such sentences will certainly increase the Minister's own popularity, because there are many people who share these thoughts with him. But I do not know how much this will benefit the whole stability mechanism. In this sense, I think the Minister of Finance has done a disservice and it has been somewhat strange to listen to him in the Committee on Monetary Affairs pouring his heart into how the media does not understand him. Much also depends on how and what is said. The second reason is that the hands of our Riigikogu no longer reach when ratifying this draft. To be honest, I agree with several critics and say that I believe that the Estonian state could, in essence, have stood up for this agreement to be better, even in the aspects on which Igor Gräzin, for example, stayed here today. Thirdly, I think he has been working against the bill because the draft itself was a failure. The situation that we had in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Tuesday, where the so-called collective text of the law is being drafted, is very rare. As already experienced politicians, you even know that in these cases, you can behave very harshly and say that as long as there is nothing on black white, nothing will be discussed. We did the text of the law together with the Commission, and the side of the bill related to the Riigikogu was particularly weak. I long wondered whether there might be a person in the Ministry of Finance who would know the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and the mechanism here, and I think the smartest man is the minister himself. He's supposed to be familiar with it. We know that ministers do not put their own hands on writing a bill, but in the future, at least his assistants, if not the political parties of the Riigikogu, could still communicate with the Legal Department. I do not know whether this nonsense, which was in the draft, is that if the Committee on European Union Affairs finds that this law must be debated in plenary, it will itself initiate the draft decision, bringing it here, which means, as you very well know, that it will also defend it itself. The European Union Affairs Commission has no right to initiate draft decisions pursuant to other sections, which assume financial obligations for the Estonian state. That's the kind of stupidity we've been trying to grunt out, and hopefully they've been grazed out. Unfortunately, I couldn't get everyone. And one is our amendment, which talks about the state budget, about the relationship of responsibilities with the state budget. We have opened the basic law on the state budget and made it possible to draw up an additional budget, which was another shortage of the Ministry of Finance in the preparation of this draft. However, I think it would be reasonable to avoid a situation where, in the case of a large sum of money, the Riigikogu plenary can make two different decisions, even in theory. In other words, if it is already clear that the adopted and valid section of the State Budget Act, which gives the government the opportunity to carry out financial transactions, is narrow in size, the government must immediately bring in an additional budget to amend that section. The reason why it is not done is as follows. The decision is to be taken at one reading and then it is considered that the additional budget, which is known to be the subject of three readings, will take more time. However, I believe that the Riigikogu will be able to deal with such additional budgets in a very short time. When we look at the shortcomings of the draft, I think that, on the political side, the authors of the draft have been very disturbed by the fact that the coalition has 56 votes in which it is not sure of itself and how it would be more convenient for the government to bring the large hall to the Riigikogu. That's no way to write laws. The laws must be written in the light of the fact that there may ultimately be a minority government in the Estonian state, and he too is obliged to carry out the same tasks assigned to the executive power. The places that will be the most complex in the future for the current wording are as follows: There is an obligation on the European Union Affairs Commission, if they are asked for a yes or no answer, to recognise when decision-making exceeds their powers and to say to the government: no, we do not decide, you must submit a draft to the Riigikogu plenary. Another very complex place in practice is to distinguish between the changes to memoranda of understanding that have been concluded and whether the changes are significant or not. This really is a purely practical question of how the Commission on European Union Affairs is going to behave in particular. Let's hope that makes sense. So first I call on you to support our amendments which we wish to vote on. As I speak on behalf of the group here, I will also say away nicely in public to everyone, because it has been asked very much that our group is unitedly pro-European. However, it is clear from this draft that there are those who are, I do not know whether to be tougher or harder with a heart, for whom this European mindset is somehow different from the way they view today's government. There are also those for whom the attitude of today's government not only to the Riigikogu, but to the whole subject is somewhat more important. Accordingly, we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U164	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask Jüri Ratas next! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The European Stability Mechanism has been one of the most burning political issues throughout this summer. This has affected the person in the country and the city who is working their daily work, as well as all members of the Riigikogu. Quite a few have been left indifferent to the subject, and that is understandable. Over a few years, a large amount of money will have to be paid in, a very large guarantee will be given and endless questions will still remain. I believe that we have all had to hear the question during this summer or have had to answer the question as to why Estonia supports significantly richer countries than itself. Surely this question is sincere and understandable. We can say that we do not have major problems with our fiscal policy, but there is a deficit and a need for budgetary resources in many sectors at the same time. Upon adoption of the draft to be discussed, Estonia will receive a commitment of EUR 1.3 billion, of which nearly EUR 150 million will take the form of paid-in capital. We can discuss here the likelihood that this obligation will be fully fulfilled, but Estonia will in any case have to take into account the worst-case scenario, i.e. the application of the guarantee. The fact that such black scenarios need to be taken seriously into account in the economy has taught us the last few years. Unpredictability and surprises in the negative key have unfortunately been in both the private and public sectors. Therefore, there is still a lack of answer to the question, I believe, both in the opposition and in the coalition, of whom or at whose expense this money will be taken quickly. It is certainly a question of taking advantage of our lending capacity to help foreign countries. This credit capacity could be used to make the necessary investments in your country and to improve the well-being of Estonian people. Very many of the promises made to the people have not been fulfilled in the years of the crisis. For example, the minimum wage has increased only a few euros over the last four years and the price increase is clearly faster than the average wage increase. At times, I find it strange to see how the biggest supporters of the ESM are in favour of a liberal market economy, who should believe that the market itself solves all the problems and that it is wrong for countries to intervene in such a situation. The different credit rating agencies have made rather negative assessments of the countries in need. The bond markets have clearly estimated the sustainability of these countries on the basis of high bond interest rates, which in some cases have been double-digit. The purchases by the European Central Bank of Troubled Country Bonds from the secondary market are of very dubious value and balance good taste at the border. The situation that we have reached today has arisen due to inadequate sanctions. A Stability and Growth Pact was adopted in Amsterdam in 1997 to ensure that Member States continue their efforts to maintain fiscal discipline even after the introduction of the single currency. This means that the Maastricht criteria must be met by the country even after joining the euro area. In reality, however, a situation has arisen where countries are only punished if they are not yet members of the euro area, and they are simply not allowed to join the euro. But once the country has gotten its foot in the door, no one cares much anymore. According to Eurostat, 12 euro area countries exceeded the 60% debt ratio set out in the Maastricht criteria in the first quarter of this year. Let me repeat this last sentence: according to Eurostat, 12 euro area countries exceeded the 60% debt ratio set out in the Maastricht criteria in the first quarter of this year. The fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria cannot be an objective only by joining the euro area. These criteria must be followed by all Member States on a daily basis. It seems that these are rather simple but also very disciplined criteria. If they were to be met, there would certainly not be such a crisis in the euro area, and there would be no misunderstanding. It is positive that the draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism has changed significantly for the second reading today. Here, on behalf of the Group, I would like to thank the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the IRL and the Social Democratic Party. Thanks to their cooperation, it is impossible for the Riigikogu to become a programmed robot when adopting the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. As a result of the work carried out, it is ensured that the financial decisions relating to the ESM are discussed by the Riigikogu's plenary and thus the widest possible representative body is involved in the national procedural process. The faction of the Centre Party achieved with its amendments that by being in the ESM, the government coalition does not violate the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the foundation of our state. Consistency with the Estonian Constitution would be questionable if the Commission expressed the views of the Riigikogu without the Riigikogu plenary being able to take a legal position on this matter. The Minister of Finance will also be obliged to give an annual overview of the stability grants and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism at the Riigikogu meeting. This amendment ensures the involvement of the Riigikogu. However, the position of the Centre Party Group on the content of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism has not changed. We continue to believe that the 1000-euro obligation for every person living in Estonia is a burden that Estonia does not have to assume. Just as a private individual must not assume obligations that are beyond his control, neither must the state undertake obligations that he or she cannot fulfil or at the expense of the quality of life of his or her people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U166	Thank you very much. Andres Herkel next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U167	I'm asking for three minutes! Not to mention the role of the central bank. I am referring here to the President of the German Bundesbank, who has shown unwavering opposition to the purchase of central bank bonds. He has said that monetary policy must not come under the influence of fiscal policy and, in a democracy, risk sharing should be decided not by central banks, but by parliaments. We also had a serious debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We have heard about the position of the Governor of Eesti Pank, what he thinks of the ESM, but the central bank itself has already made large amounts of transactions on the bond markets and intends to continue to do so. These are fundamental issues that we should also discuss. Finally. I call for a responsible decision to be taken today, and, once again, we must clearly realise that by saving the euro area, we will also secure our own future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The 'Spring' of Luts, quoted here by one of the previous speakers, is a place that I think is better suited to the subject under consideration. This is the famous story that Toots went to Tõnisson to solve his money problems. Tõnisson's first human reaction was that if he knew, he'd probably have left home. The country cannot leave home, and as our MEPs, it cannot be done at all. But one reaction that reminded me of this situation was when the argument arose that we would wait for the decision of the German Constitutional Court and then make our decision. I very much respect the legal arguments and the legal problems associated with the ESM are not minor, but our Supreme Court decision has been made and gives us the power to make a political decision. I therefore do not support such postponements. I think that we have rather lost some time, we could have been a little early on this draft, but I think that Parliament's procedure has been dignified. Listening to opponents and looking at today's demonstration is not an easy decision. This is a decision, one way or another, involving very high risks. But I think it's an attempt to simplify the world a little bit when it comes to enslavement. The ESM is still probably designed to solve problems in Europe, not to bully the Estonian taxpayer. For Estonia, international organisations are very important. Being part of an international organisation is more important to us than to our international organisations, which has been confirmed by history. If the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs pointed out above that we may also face financial risks, then I think that the risk of exclusion may not only be financial. It makes no sense for us to remain isolated when the countries of the euro area participate in this solidarity mechanism, because perhaps, for some other reason, we also need solidarity in the future. By losing our independence, we have actually lost solidarity once. On the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which was discussed by the chairman of the committee, Mr Sester, and which resulted in Eiki Nestor stopping, I can only say compliments here, to recall the form in which the draft came before us in the Riigikogu. A clear logic has been given to national proceedings. The fact that the draft memorandum requires the decision of the Riigikogu is correct. The exception is confidentiality cases. It may also be a little difficult to work with this mechanism, that it is not the ELAK itself that brings problems before the Riigikogu, but, if it considers it necessary to bring the Riigikogu procedure to the government to submit a draft. This is also the solution to the problem. I say in this way that the issues raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs may not have been quite the solution that we have seen in our letter, but have received an even better solution. Processing ratification and implementation in a single draft. I think it would have been wise to come up with two separate drafts and to deal with them in parallel. At this stage, however, procedural rationality probably also led to progress being made together. Once again, it seems to me that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has managed to mitigate risks in several directions, including contacts with the Chancellor of Justice. It is likely that these theoretical threats, if the President or the Chancellor of Justice challenges the implementing party of the draft, will not actually materialise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U169	Thank you. You've made it in time, okay? Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say to the opponents of the previous speakers that being excluded from the stability mechanism is certainly not a credible alternative. Since we are part of the euro area and are a member of the European Union, the concerns that the euro area has, the European Union, are our common concerns and, in the rescue of the euro area, we will obviously also secure our own future by securing the euro area. I am not going to talk about the fact that, even today, stopping and resolving the debt crisis in the euro area will certainly continue to be one of the most topical issues in Europe and, if you want, in the whole world. A serious upheaval, the solution has not really been achieved by the efforts made so far, and the precarious situation in the financial markets is continuing. It is obvious, however, that the countries that have driven the wrong budget policy and that have been overpowering do not themselves come out of this situation. In a situation where the debt crisis has taken very large proportions, solutions are undoubtedly uncomfortable and, depending on the final solution, more or less costly. Clearly, the most difficult thing to do in their own country is to explain these things to those countries that have themselves implemented conservative fiscal policies and have avoided the emergence of a debt burden. The Finance Committee proposed amendments to the draft proposed by the Government. Compared to the draft government, the role of the Riigikogu will increase and, above all, in the direction that the Riigikogu will discuss in very detail a number of issues relating to the ESM, which I believe are in fact issues of government decision, government debate. Often, the government, or even the panel of experts, discusses issues with such detail, such as detailed changes to programmes in the programme countries or in the beneficiary countries. But, of course, if we accept these proposals and also approve the draft ratification of the ESM, we must take this increased role into account. This means very substantial work, a rapid response, and it is far from eloquence-only. But before we prepare ourselves to deal with detailed issues, I would really wait and want to see the Estonian Parliament address big and substantive issues, whether or not those that we addressed quite superficially today, whether the issue of joint bonds or, if you wish, the granting of a banking licence to the ESM, which is actually a very fundamental issue. There is a huge debate on this in the euro area Member States. There are Member States that are in favour of this. The leader of a southern Member State has said that obtaining a banking licence is a matter of the near future. The Nordic countries have opposed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U171	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U172	Thanks and you too, Igor! I'm about to set a record for the shortness of this speech in the hall, but also a record for the clarity and comprehension of speech. Economists, lawyers, many specialists, not only in Estonia, have spoken about this ESM chip, legal, financial, and certainly ethical chip. Dear hallists, let's get it together and vote against the ESM! Look, I believe that we have no power from Estonian citizens to burden our taxpayers with such sums and to pay for the foolishness, lazyness and sloppyness of countries that actually live better than Estonia, and our citizens live much better than our citizens. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U173	Thank you. Igor Gräzini, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U174	I'm asking for eight minutes plus the four that Juku-Kalle missed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U175	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U176	You can't have 12? Okay. Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Sven Sester said a sentence I need to clear up. He said that the content of the ESM should have been discussed at first reading, objectives, nature, etc. We cannot talk about this at first reading, because then only the representatives of the political groups will talk about it. Consequently, it is only and only at second reading that we can talk about the objectives. There has really been no talk about goals. Standard terms exist: Estonia is interested in a stable euro, a strong euro, etc. No one has ever bothered to answer the question why. Recently, the question arose that we do not have to wait for what the German Constitutional Court thinks, we have to decide for ourselves, etc. At this point, I would like to point out that the German Constitutional Court does not matter to us. We were fit to fully transpose German civil law, and we think German civil law is a matter to think about. That's another thing. I would also remind my good colleague astronomer that while astronomers, astrologers and salt blowers were burned in civilised Europe, German legal philosophy was already a science. If we are going to talk about this, then Jellinek, Puchta, Radbruch, Fichte, ultimately a philosopher, that is the German idea, which, fortunately, has dominated the Estonian Parliament as well. Therefore, to say that we don't care what they say there, no or no. In addition, it is an expert opinion that we receive free of charge. We often order expert analyses and pay. There, in Germany, there are very wise lawyers who speak not German law, but who speak European Union law and only that. We're gonna get that knowledge for free, but we're gonna say we don't care. I think if I have several doctors, one of whom says you need a purgen, the other says coal, and the third says we're gonna cut out your appendix, I'm gonna go to the fourth and ask him what he thinks. We're going to act like we're going to take both pills and have a kidney cut out. One of the main problems of the ESM, and this is purely ideal, is what I say as a liberal, representative of the classic reform party, is that the ESM stimulates the wrong things, it stimulates countries with no free market economy. Greece and Italy, for example, are with the island of Vanuatu, Ecuador, in terms of the free market economy, and I do not know who else at the beginning of the second hundred. I think the comparison that we gave support to Ireland is not right. Ireland is a country with a free market economy and Latvia is also a country with a free market economy. However, since the correction that I have made that we will continue to stimulate the market economy has been withdrawn and, instead, it is now said that we are stimulating the continuation of socialist-bolshevik economic experiments, I cannot; it is very difficult to vote in favour of it. It is later said that in Italy or somewhere there will be economic Bolsheviks, and you, Gräzin, voted for them. If they come to power, they'll come, but I don't want my hand in the game. Now for the ESM bank license. This is not a third-class issue. No, it's not! Here I absolutely agree with the German Central Bank. Giving the ESM a bank license means, in other words, that they will start buying junk bonds from Italy and other countries for real money, with real expensive money. In other words, real money is exchanged for VEB fund certificates. Interestingly, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has changed its position here. I mean, with the VEB fund certificates, they say you don't get a penny, but the holders of VEB fund certificates to Italy, Greece and others we say that we will pay everything. There is only one difference between the VEB Fund and the ESM: non-Estonians win the ESM, but we do not pay for the VEB Fund because there are Estonians there. I mean, we don't pay Estonians, but we pay non-Estonians. The victims of the VEB Fund are only their nationality. That's very interesting. Next, the current tragedy of the ESM is largely what Raid and I have also made improvements to: there is no upper limit to the ESM. Today's ESM is the beginning, there will be ESM-2 and ESM-3 and there will be many more. There must be a lot of them, because the amount we're talking about right now is actually comic. We're talking about half a trillion. Euro-debt is ten trillion. What firewall are we talking about? I think the firefighters in those two-three fire commandos we still have are saying that if it burns on the fifth floor, the firewall, whose height is one floor, is not a firewall. That's what the current ESM is doing. I guess I'll have to look at the vote when it comes to making the correction that the ESM boundary will remain in force, just as Raid and I proposed, then all right, we've just postponed the problem. If not, I don't know. There's one other thing I've been talking about that I'd like to do emotionally. Rehepaplus. Look, countries have their own interests. The only thing we have not talked about today (I referred to it at the beginning) is what Estonia's national interests are. With regard to these national interests, I do not agree with this assumption that we are net recipients and they are net contributors, etc. The Estonian state cannot be bought, as the Chairman of the Monetary Commission claims. We're net recipients, so we're bought and then don't decide anymore. I don't think that's how it works. ESM doesn't solve any problems. Our bet on the ESM's knuckles. The ESM contribution to the European debt crisis is non-existent. I can't answer why this thing is being promoted. The Governor of the German central bank cannot answer that either. But once this has gone so far, I admit: indeed, if we bring this lure to a halt, if we decide that, well, let this particular ESM go, but let it be the last time, and let no Minister of Finance ever come again to ask for a penny, and if we vote in on this correction, then I am in favour. I am afraid I will be forced to vote against because this correction will not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U177	Thank you. To Tõnis Lukas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable successors of ancient parents, reminding us of Uluots' contract theory and this continuity. We have responsibility, and this responsibility means not living in this moment, but also seeing the perspective, the horizon. And I admit that we can see it differently. For me, there are two main issues in this bill, just as they are. Two separate topics have been programmed here in themselves, and I cannot look at the issues that are currently before us, just as a case-by-case. That's why I'm talking about these two aspects. One is financial logic, and it is undoubtedly very right in this plan to guarantee this currency, to guarantee its own money. This is very logical, we could not do otherwise if we had the national currency, no matter what we would tie it to, and it is certainly natural that we are looking for a chance to guarantee our current currency, the euro. So this bill has deep content. And I must say that there has been a major, serious work in the Committee on Monetary Affairs which has resulted in this draft being more understandable, and I hope that it will also make the whole people more understandable. My heart is calmer about this bill now than it was a month ago. At least we'll be allowed to discuss things in the future. So congratulations to the Committee on Monetary Affairs! However, this is not just an individual issue, an individual case, and we must also look at matters more widely during this particular debate. I am pleased that today's emphasis has not been as it was at first reading, where we were able to hear that everyone who thinks otherwise advocates rhyme. I agree with the previous speaker: when questioners are called a priori raheppas, who want to receive and do not want to give back, it is immoral. They are also different organisations, although they have contact points. As an organisation, it was, of course, possible to agree on the logic of the European Union for all the participants, and if we become more prosperous, our contributions will increase. If there's gonna be new recruits, we're really gonna be the ones to support them. So that is the logic of one organisation and the fact that we receive support from the Structural Funds is agreed in this organisation. Now, if we ask questions as to whether to start guaranteeing something else, these questions cannot be called "reheaping." Of course, it is cumbersome to look further or, let's say, to the left and to the right of this narrow subject, but only monetary policy with the ESM and the European Union as it stands is not really suitable for the description of the subject. If we recall, Estonia's own policy making has also been the main financial strategy, especially in times of crisis. All those strategies that went against the financial strategy were put under the radar. To tell you now, there's gonna be a financial centralization, and it's gonna stay there...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U179	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U180	Yes, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U181	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U182	... is not right because, just as Estonia's monetary policy approach has implications for education, culture, social and economic policies, the monetary concentration in the European Union and the ensuing euro zone will undoubtedly be followed by centralization in other areas. And we must see whether our people, who are on the very basis of life and with the national problems we have, will endure it or not. We do not have to ask whether a house can be built next to the school, of course, but we have to ask what will be there, and we would not allow this house to be built if we knew that there would be a liquor store or a brothel. In this sense, we have a duty to anticipate several steps, because the logic is that if you have already made a decision, how will you oppose the next steps, you must have known. By the way, we were supposed to know about the ESM a year ago, the general logic was actually discussed quite seriously then. They say you must have known when you decided why you didn't ask. Any rational statement that it is appropriate to make these moves in monetary policy now means that we give a hand. In the future, it is appropriate to share immigrants' quotas across the European Union, in the future it will be appropriate to give up all official languages or, let us say, leave only a few, etc. In this sense, we must not rely solely on rationality; we must encourage our representatives to talk about national interests, and we can only do that if we ask uncomfortable questions. I fully agree that these questions need to be asked before we do, and also our representatives in the negotiations, all the negotiators must ask the people first, and not subsequently come up with the fact that we now need to start changing the constitution here by chance. Today, we can actually program constitutional changes into the whole process. The fundamental principles of the Constitution are fundamental values without which the state of Estonia and the constitution established on its behalf lose their character. " That is what Julia Laffranque has said, and many Estonian legal scientists have said exactly the same. I do not agree that our political culture would allow someone to take the right to just kick open the door to the Constitution and say that we are only making a few one-off decisions and you see, that is what happened. So this is a broader topic and today it was a pleasure to see that it was also taken a little more widely than at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U183	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from Rait Marust and Igor Gräzin; the commission has proposed that this should not be taken into account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U184	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U185	Thank you. We shall proceed to the preparation of the vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 37), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 50 votes to one with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U186	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U187	Thank you. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Let's see if everyone's here. Can I put it to a vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 38 votes to 51 with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 10 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has taken part in the consideration. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U188	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U189	I ask Igor Gräzini to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U190	Honourable Riigikogu, I shall put this proposal to the vote. Can I put it to a vote? I shall put to the vote the 10th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. This has been partially taken into account by the Governing Commission. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 38 votes to 51 with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has essentially taken account of it. Amendment 12 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has essentially taken account of it. Amendment 13 has been tabled by Igor Gräzin; the commission has proposed that no account be taken. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U191	Unfortunately, it is not possible to vote on this proposal, as according to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission proposes that full account be taken of. The 15th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The 17th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has taken part in the consideration. The 18th amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 19 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has taken the substance into account. Amendment 20 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has taken the substance into account. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The 22nd amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments have been examined by us and the second reading of the draft law 254 on ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic has been completed. The next extraordinary session will be held today at 16.10 a.m., two hours after the end of this session and the agenda will be the third reading of the draft Act 254 on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. Bye! Closure of the sitting at 2.09 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U192	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the extraordinary plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Me and several other members of the Centre Party have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. The inquiry concerns the crimes of Estonian citizens abroad. An inquiry is motivated by a particular story. On 15 August, the Estonian public learned through the media that the former President of the Bank of Moscow has sent a request to the Russian prosecutor's office to investigate information that the bank has bribed the former official of the Estonian Defence Police, Indrek Põdra. The news shows that Indrek Põder may have committed similar crimes in addition to the crimes for which he is currently punishing. The Public Prosecutor's Office is obliged to initiate a criminal case if there is evidence of a criminal offence. This has been confirmed by repeated practice in the prosecutor's office. Although the report has not been submitted at present, the prosecutor's office is also obliged to respond to suspicions of crime from public sources and to initiate proceedings. An inquiry is motivated by a specific case, but the questions that are four in total are slightly wider than this one case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U194	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate two draft laws. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on ambient air protection and the Law on liquid fuel. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U196	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Rural Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Public Information Act, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Prisons Act, the Penal Care Act and the Penal Code, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Government of the Republic. On 30 August 2011, the Riigikogu issued a draft decision entitled "Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2011, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud and to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Good fellows! We're gonna do a presence check. 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10. More than half of the composition of the Riigikogu is present, the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu has a quorum. We are now establishing a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of the votes. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu, against 1 with 2 abstentions. A timetable for the work of the extraordinary session has been established.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U197	Let us begin the debate on today's item. The third reading of the draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, Estonia and Europe as a whole have faced problems that are difficult to solve and lack of good solutions. It would be better to say that there are no good solutions. When, during the economic crisis, we balanced costs with opportunities in our country, it was a very painful process. The reserves collected, the small public debt and the level of expenditure held in the frame helped us. This is all the more critical in a situation where we, together with the rest of Europe, are helping countries that have clearly lived beyond their means and where tax officials are on strike instead of collecting taxes. It is therefore understandable that participation in the European Stability Mechanism is often an issue for Estonian citizens and many politicians, in which I would also like to repeat the reference to Tõnisson in this Chamber today, who would have preferred to leave home in the case of complex financial matters. At the same time, clogging is not something to get too cocky. Only three years ago, our government asked banks operating in Estonia to finance the running costs of the loan. Two banks refused, referring to the instability of the situation. Therefore, we should not very bravically report that we ourselves will never need this institution. At the moment, we need solutions to prevent the deepening of the European debt crisis. This is precisely in the interests of the citizens of Estonia. We cannot be absolutely certain that the ESM will have sufficient effect, but this is a necessary measure to stabilise the situation. It is a stable economy in Europe that guarantees Estonian companies the opportunity to operate in the main export markets, so it guarantees jobs and tax receipts here in Estonia. The draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism has conducted an in-depth discussion in the three committees of the Riigikogu and, I believe, in all political groups. The IRL Group presented five proposals for amending the draft to the Committee on Monetary Affairs as the lead committee. It is a pleasure to see that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not go the easy way of resisting, nor did it simply make cosmetic changes to the draft drafted by the government. The amendments are important and we are pleased that all IRL proposals have also been taken into account. As a result of the changes, the plenary of the Riigikogu retains the competence to make loan and assistance decisions even in urgent cases. The Minister of Finance also reports to the Riigikogu's plenary on the stability grants granted and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the ESM. Increasing the competence of the Riigikogu's plenary has been a clear prerequisite for IRL to support the ESM. The amendments made this week by the Committee on Monetary Affairs to the draft law on ratification and implementation of the ESM Treaty were crucial to the decision of the IRL Group. The IRL supports the draft law on ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. I also call on the opposition parties to behave in a civil manner and to vote in favour of the ESM. In addition to our proposals, all important proposals by the opposition have now been taken into account in the draft. I do not see objective reasons for voting against or not voting. With further steps, Estonia must send a clear message to its European partners that the rules of fair play apply to everyone, and the countries that live in debt must take a decisive path of cuts. Estonia cannot show solidarity by living beyond our means, but we are in solidarity with ensuring the stability of our common economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U199	Thank you. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Each coin has two sides, including the euro coin. Before 1 January 2011, we were introduced to the right side of the euro coin. The euro changeover was designed as a positive economic event, for which the Estonian people suffered painful cuts, because the long-awaited euro had to compensate for it. The people of Estonia have been reasonable and solidarity-based towards the euro project. Today we have also seen the back of the coin, which was forgotten to tell Estonians: the euro brought us price increases and participation in rescue packages. This summer the Supreme Court decided by a one-vote majority that the Estonian Parliament has the right to assume long-term and burdensome financial obligations for our country. However, this political majority decision and the right to make such a majority decision do not relieve us of the obligation to recognise that we are doing so at the expense of our own people, because the grant is directly linked to the domestic capacity to solve problems, both for us and elsewhere. This summer, Spain received financial support from other countries, with the last euro assistance package, to save its banks. In Spain, among other things, long-term unemployment benefits were increased for the budgetary money released. The political will of the Estonian Government is the opposite: the income of those in need, as well as of ordinary earners, is frozen, but their resources are generously offered to solve the concerns of other euro countries. At the same time, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has also boasted that Estonia's burden is greatest in comparison with other eurozone countries, given the small size of our country. The main problem with ESM is disproportionately large parts of Estonia. Indeed, our participation is only 0.186% as a percentage, which at first glance seems ridiculously small, but the percentage is a very deceptive unit, which depends largely on the whole. Estonia's share of EUR 1302000000 means that almost EUR 1000 has been committed for each of our inhabitants when they join the ESM. If we put this perspective in perspective, it means that we are making a commitment equal to the average wage of five weeks, while Germany, whose share of the ESM is by far the largest, will make a commitment to the average wage of three weeks. So the members of the people who press the green button today will make long-term commitments to the Estonian state, which must also be taken into account by all subsequent government associations. Here comes the logical question of who has given you such a mandate in the first place. The highest state power in Estonia is exercised by the Estonian people, who have given members of the Riigikogu a mandate for four years. In these elections, when we received this mandate, such commitments were probably not discussed for a longer period than ten years. In recent weeks, we arrived at the Riigikogu so far that we made the principles of national decision-making for the distribution of this EUR 1.3 billion obligation compatible with the Constitution. For that, a credit to the IRL. However, the fact that a procedure has been agreed on how this money will be given to other countries does not undo the fact that the commitment in itself is very high at EUR 1.3 billion. Maybe it'll grow. This autumn we will certainly be sent by the Supreme Court's finding that the mandate of the people in European Union affairs is being exhausted. I believe that those who vote in favour of the decision must be able to answer the question of where this EUR 1.3 billion will be taken. We have not heard this answer so far, because when it comes to Estonia's lending capacity, it is a dim one that does not fit in this hall. The respected previous speaker, Kaia Iva, also said that only three years ago the Estonian state did not have such credit capacity. How is it possible to talk about this credit capacity today when many public companies do not have enough money to make investments? There is talk of forcing public companies to go to the stock market because the state is pumping out a huge dividend from these companies. You don't have to look far for examples. Similarly, investments by local authorities were hampered during the crisis years because all loans had to be coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. They were only allowed to cover own financing of external aid projects. The ESM is not a financing transaction of any kind, as they are trying to show. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U201	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U202	In essence, it is still a matter of giving money to chronic debtors who have taken a SMS loan. They promise to change and repair themselves, but just until the money is in place. In the case of Greece, one aid package was mentioned at the beginning, and the other came. It had to be the last one, anyway. Now we're talking about the third package. Where is the limit when the interests of the Estonian state are put first in this Parliament? It is not possible to demand a return to confidence in the economic policies of countries in difficulty in the euro area if agreements are not respected. Insurance is a term known to all of us as moral hazard. If a person has made a car with a car insurance policy where the liability is zero, then the person's traffic behaviour is likely to change because the insurance is fully responsible for the errors. There is also a moral hazard in economic policy. If countries have the opportunity to receive aid, their economic policies will also become more relaxed. Any assistance must be subject to sanctions. Many debates on the ESM have compared this mechanism to the IMF. In fact, they have an important difference that makes the ESM much weaker. In the case of IMF assistance, the management and decision-making of the State will essentially be transferred to the IMF, but in the case of the ESM, the necessary reforms will have to be carried out by the government of the beneficiary country. Thus, a factor such as the will and election of the local people will also come into play in decision-making, which in turn shows that not all of the promises made may hold water. We have a question of whether, in a situation where most countries in the euro area are carrying a very high credit burden and where the next politically acceptable solution may be inflation, we will start from where we are today, or we will be 1.3 billion behind. Just as a private individual should not assume obligations that are beyond his control, the state must not assume obligations that he or she cannot fulfil or at the expense of the quality of life of his or her people. Due to all these considerations, the Estonian Centre Party Group cannot support the ratification of the ESM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U203	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. There are more requests. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Tamkivi, from the Group of the Reform Party, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U204	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I didn't come here at all from the desire to take up the pathos and the breeze of the soul very much to praise the decision that should fall today, and I certainly do not want to take advantage of all the time that has been offered to me. I just want to say that after lengthy and substantive debates, the Reform Party has come to the conclusion, after hearing all the arguments, that we are using the green button in the ESM accession vote today. This is, of course, an issue that is neither pleasant nor comfortable for anyone. Personally, I haven't met any vigilante today who would have claimed that he came up here this morning with a light foot, a whistle on his mouth. It is better that we do not have to deal with this at all. Yet, the time has come. Ladies and gentlemen, within our salary there is also an obligation to deal with this issue and to make a decision, because where these important decisions for the development of the Estonian state are still made, if not in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. If you go to practical life, it can be said that, figuratively speaking, this is a similar situation when, for example, there is a sewer in the street in front of the house. This pipe needs to be fixed. No one would want to do this job, yet this pipe must be repaired, because we cannot imagine life if the water does not move in or out of the house. We don't want to imagine it. However, this pipe must be repaired by people who are not at all responsible for breaking the pipe. I want to say that financial stability, openness and a common economic space are the values that we have all come to accept together and accept them as human rights. If these values are to be lost, how will we continue to live? Can we even imagine how we're going to live? If all the countries of the euro area have decided today that they will put together their forces and try to put an end to this downward spiral somehow, so that the situation becomes normal again, then it would be very strange if Estonia were the only one left out of it. Who knows what might happen in the future? If we abandon this principle of collectiveity and we on our own should suddenly need some help in the future, how are things going? On this basis, I would like to say once again that in the Reform Party Group, there is a willingness to vote in favour of this decision today. There have been heated and painful disputes in this Chamber. If there are very different sides to the dispute, then usually, as you know, respected MPs, the truth is out there somewhere in the middle. I think that it is certainly not right for those who say that, after today's decision, the Estonian state will drain money and it will no longer be possible to live in this country. There can certainly not be a 100% certainty that the guarantees that we are giving today will never be used at any rate. Guarantees that cannot be used or not used are not asked either, because they have no value in the world of money. Yet we hope for the best, we are positive and we make the best decision in today's situation. So, strength to everyone and thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U205	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. Finally, as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask Mrs Vassilyev to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I'll be brief. There has been quite a lot of talk about the ESM in this hall and a lot of different ideas have been expressed. There have been some who have thought that the ESM is from the devil. There have been some who have found that the ESM is the manna of heaven. I welcome the fact that during this process, which has been quite public and, I dare say, quite thorough, certain adjustments have taken place in extreme opinions. Those who sincerely thought that the ESM was the solution to the crisis, and whose rhetoric at first was such that it was an investment, the realisation of which was purely theoretical and, if we were doing well, we could even earn interest from it, have clearly been reduced. The reality of the depth of the crisis has reached this hall as well, and it is only welcomed in a constructive way. Neither I nor the other Social Democrats think that the whole ESM theme is black and white. To be honest, it is not realistic to believe that if we say yes and 16 other countries say yes to the ESM, the crisis will be resolved and life will go on well. Similarly, if these 17 countries say no to the ESM, it will have a negative impact on the situation in Europe. Both sides are reality. It is quite simple, in fact, to decide on the basis of which one or the other MP, who is not directly charged with voting the same or the other. If the ambassador finds that the crisis facing Europe is so deep in its potential that nothing can be saved, then it is rational to say no to the ESM. If it is seen that Europe is able to rule out or soften the free recession, then it makes sense to say yes to the ESM. Finally. Regardless of how one or the other Social Democrat is voting today, we believe that solidarity should not only exist at one table with the finance and prime ministers of other European countries, but also with our own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U207	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. As the representatives of all the political groups have now been able to speak, I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I will put to the final vote the draft law 254 on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! I interrupt the vote. Excuse me, please interrupt the vote! Let's do the presence check first. 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. Let's do it again. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U208	Tell me, please, if this is the law of 51 votes or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-30_U209	It's the law of 51 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft law 254 on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! (meeting of 59 members of the Riigikogu) by 34 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, The extraordinary session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.40 p.m.
