ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U1	Good morning, dear fellows. Good Riigikogu, we will start the 16th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture decided to initiate a draft law amending the Private School Act following the decision of the Riigikogu this autumn to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to improve access to education in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U4	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Before going to Christmas holidays and meetings with voters, it will certainly be useful for us to continue on the subject that we started yesterday in a conversation with the chairman of the committee. This concerns the loss of income from Tallinn Children's Hospital. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to compensate the Foundation for the loss of income from Tallinn Children's Hospital in failing to apply the increased visit and bed pay of the Government of the Republic, to find the means to do so and to ensure that our children continue to receive emergency and regular medical care. If we look at the number of admissions, the parents' trust in this hospital is undeniable. Therefore, we have a suggestion that, in addition to the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic should deal with this situation, find these opportunities and propose solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U5	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U6	Mr President, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching a draft Industrial Emissions Act today. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. I wish you a peaceful Christmas time and a memorable New Year's Eve! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U8	Let us now begin the discussion of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of Bill 309 of the Act amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put bill 309 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 309 of the Act amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U9	We will move on to the second item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 326 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against and no abstentions. Draft Act 326 amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a law. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U10	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 325 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. For 49 members of the Riigikogu, 31 against, there are no abstentions. The draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U11	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 293. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 293 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Law 293 amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U12	Let us move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is an overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Good fellows! Prime Minister! Before going to the report, let me briefly present the procedure for this item on the agenda. First, the Prime Minister's presentation will be up to 30 minutes, then the questions will be for the waitress. A member of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question. After that, there will be negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups will take the floor. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia is a competitive and developing country. In the face of the uncertainties in the global economy, we have done well. Estonia is expected to have the fastest economic growth in the euro area. Despite the expected external environment, we have managed to maintain and create the necessary stability for growth with the support of conservative fiscal policies. The share of Estonian goods and services exports in world trade has risen to the highest level in history. The increase in domestic demand, the fall in unemployment and the increase in employment are recognised by the complex choices made. A strengthening industry is one of the cornerstones of our economy and prosperity. The volume of industrial production exceeds the high level before the crisis in 2008. The export volume for the first ten months of the year exceeds EUR 10,5 billion. This is 5.1% more than in the record 2011 same period. Direct investment in Estonia has increased by around 10% in the first three quarters of 2012. Corporate deposits have increased by 12% over the year. However, Estonia must also be prepared for negative changes in the economic environment. According to several economists, uncertainty in the global economy has not been greater in the last twenty years than it has been in recent years. The complex choices of the euro area, the state of US public finances and the risks that determine China and the development of all Asia are those that we need to take into account. The veil of uncertainty is also overshadowing the choices of Estonia's main trading partners, which is why we should not allow ourselves easy-handedly run public finances or decisions based solely on short-term benefits. We must collect reserves and, at the same time, contribute to areas that help Estonia to grow in competitiveness. One such important area is R &amp; D and innovation. Honourable Riigikogu! In 2011, Estonian R &amp; D expenditure increased to 384.5 million euros, or 2.41% of GDP. By comparison, R &amp; D investment accounted for 1.63% of GDP in 2010. The rapid increase in investment was strongly influenced by the oil industry, but the favourable general trend is confirmed by a 29% increase in the volume of the remaining private sector investment. Although in absolute figures we are underdeveloped industrialised countries, we can make a positive assessment of long-term developments and decisions. Since 2002, when the first "Knowledge-based Estonia" strategy was drawn up, total R &amp; D expenditure has increased seven times. At the time, we invested a total of EUR 55.7 million in R &amp; D, or 0.72% of GDP. Estonia has never invested more in R &amp; D than it did in 2011. R &amp; D is no longer seen as excessive luxury but as existentially important activities which deserve constant attention. The R &amp; D funding structure for 2011 confirms that public investment in research has increased the growth potential of the business sector. The share of private investment in total R &amp; D expenditure has grown strongly from year to year. In 2011, the private sector accounted for 1.52% of GDP, compared to 0.82% in 2010, and 0.64% in 2009. The competitiveness plan for Estonia 2020 sets the target of 3% of GDP for R &amp; D expenditure by 2020. This is comparable to the target set by developed industrialised countries. In order to achieve this, the volume of private sector-funded development needs to increase, in particular, to at least two thirds of total expenditure on a permanent basis. Only then can we consider ourselves comparable in relative terms to countries with a strong R &amp; D culture such as Germany, Finland, Sweden and Denmark. The report, drawn up by top European and Estonian experts to evaluate the Estonian R &amp; D and innovation system, confirms the success of the current research policy. The report recognises that over the years Estonia has succeeded in creating a research environment conducive to private sector innovation. It is noted that the impact of the current innovation policy on the real economy has remained less than expected. The same trend is confirmed by Estonia's 23rd place among the European Union's countries in terms of the indicator of the economic impact of innovation. As a whole, we are high 14th in the Scoreboard. In the view of the R &amp; D Council, which advises the government, four main strands of the next R &amp; D and innovation strategy need to be raised in order to increase the impact of R &amp; D on the economy and society. These are: better linking and prioritising R &amp; D areas; valuing and developing human resources; bringing science and entrepreneurship together; and building on clear principles for infrastructure development. Dear listeners, In addition to increasing the volume of R &amp; D funding, there is a need to pay significantly more attention to the substantive outputs of the research and innovation system. In 2011, the ratio of scientists and engineers increased to 7.24 per thousand employed. The full-time application was found by just over 4,500 scientists and engineers. In order to achieve the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy objectives, the number of researchers should continue to increase, particularly in the business sector. Increasing the volume of private R &amp; D investment means increasing demand for highly qualified human resources in business. It is still worrying that the number of graduates in higher education over the last seven years has remained more or less at the same level of just over 10,000 students per year on average. Also, the ratio adjusted for all students does not give rise to any particular optimism. I hope that the changes approved and implemented by the Riigikogu in order to improve the quality of the higher education system will motivate entrants to be more committed to their studies. As of the end of 2010, nearly 3000 doctoral students studied at Estonian universities. The academic year 2010/2011 could be considered as a good "doctoral year," as 250 doctoral students successfully completed their studies. This fact is dimmed by the indicator of unfinished education, which was 273 in the previous academic year. Although both numbers are the result of time compulsion due to the expiry of the curriculum, it is the practice of stretching the completion of doctoral studies that tends to characterise doctoral studies. It is very important that doctoral students complete their studies on time. 190 doctoral graduates are expected in this academic year. I hope that the amendments to the R &amp; D law implemented since this year's adoption will help to increase the motivation of doctoral students. The possibility to take up employment on the basis of a contract as a junior researcher provides the doctoral student with better material security and social guarantees. Action must also be taken to increase the proportion of people with doctoral degrees in entrepreneurship and research and development. High-level science is costly and we therefore need solutions that are, by their very nature, renewable. In other words, the results of research investment must be reflected in the real economy. From March this year the Estonian Research Council started work, one of its main objectives is to improve the availability of scientific research results and to expand the social impact. I hope that the research agency will act forcefully on the basis of the mission it has undertaken. I consider it extremely important for Estonia to find an effective balance between resources aimed at research and innovation and the social impact resulting from their use. We have been talking about commercialisation of scientific outputs for years as something abstract. Faith in your ability to develop high-tech products that are applied in everyday life and are commercially useful could be stronger. It takes a lot of time to develop advanced research solutions and fit them into business models. Estonian researchers, students and entrepreneurs have reached a number of applications that attract attention in the world, supported by demand-driven development and a favourable innovation environment. The Estonian X-road and e-election system based on public key infrastructure technology, solar cells based on monotherapist technology, the development of pacemakers that monitor body functions and many other achievements confirm the competitiveness of our science and researchers. Estonia's own student satellite ESTCube-1 will be launched into space in the spring of next year. Although it is a body with a volume of one litre, its benefits are already measurable in kantometers. The project is characterised by close cooperation between universities in the realisation of common interests. I acknowledge all the people involved in this project from the University of Tartu, Tallinn University of Technology, Estonian University of Life Sciences, Estonian Aviation Academy, Estonian companies and foreign partner universities involved. Today's research and development do not respect national borders. Or at least you shouldn't admit it. The launch of the Internationalisation of Science programme has given the scientific community the opportunity to participate in international scientific cooperation through four calls for proposals. As of today, more than half of the programme's budget has been committed, more than €8 million. The programme council has approved, for example, the construction of the Estonian rapid channel for the MAX-IV synchrotron, the accession to the European bioinformatics infrastructure ELIXIR, the participation of a European source of neutron radiation and several other projects. Estonian scientists have developed a piece of scientific equipment for the European Nuclear Research Centre CERN, which reported on 4 July 2012 on finding the famous Higgs Boson. Today's accession decisions mean long-term financial commitments for us, as well as the opportunity to participate as decision-makers in international excellence. Estonia is not excluded from these processes. Our aim is to ensure sustainable financing for those initiatives that have a broader, transversal impact. The results of studies in these areas will form a horizontal basis for other sectoral studies and developments. The 7th Framework Programme for research and technological development in the European Union, which will soon end, has also contributed significantly to the internationalisation of Estonian research and development. Estonia's project consortia have been allocated just under 60 million euros over the years. Given the total budget of the programme of 55 billion, it is not much, but given the relationship to GDP, Estonian researchers and companies have done quite well, to say the least. To put it plainly, we are at the forefront of GDP in the European Union. However, I think that in the future we should look for additional opportunities to achieve better access to the European Research Facility. We can contribute to the development of Horizon 2020 - the European Union Research Facility for the next period. The selected priority lines of action are science of excellence, competitive industry and a better society, which are 100% consistent with the goals of Estonia itself. It is important for us that funding choices and selection processes take greater account of the regional imbalances resulting from the specificities of the Member States in the future. Here, too, we can be proactive ourselves by directing the discussions of the Commission and the Member States and by being open to new approaches. At the joint session of the Estonian and Finnish R &amp; D councils held in November, we discussed in depth the R &amp; D cooperation perspective of both countries. Cooperation between Estonian and Finnish research communities and companies has been successful. This is confirmed by 158 joint projects carried out together under the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union. For the coming year, we will be planning a review and renewal of national road maps for research infrastructure with Finland. Closer transnational cooperation and joint planning decisions provide a better opportunity to develop the region's R &amp; D competitiveness. Good Riigikogu! Research and development and innovation in Estonia must remain a consensus-based priority, regardless of the state of the economy, turbulence in the external environment or domestic policy struggles. Research communities and businesses need to get clear signals from the state about sustainable R &amp; D funding, because only then will they be ready to make their contribution and long-term development work. It is the latter, the results of research policy choices, that will be reflected in the well-being of our society and will provide the basis for stable economic development. The seven-year implementation period of the "Knowledge-based Estonia II" strategy will end next year. The Government of the Republic has already approved a proposal for a new strategy. The Ministry of Education and Research is organising wide-based consultations aimed at agreeing the most important priorities for promoting Estonian research and development up to 2020. The new strategy must bring us to a new level from the soil we have invested heavily in over the years. I invite members of the Riigikogu to participate actively in debates on the development of a new strategy for research and development and innovation even before the discussions reach this hall. Only a broad debate will help us to achieve a common vision of developments that are important to Estonia. Shared knowledge and shared science characterize a wise country. Thank you for the constructive cooperation of the Riigikogu in developing research and innovation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U14	Prime Minister, thank you very much. You have questions too. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U15	Thank you. Thank you very much for a meaningful presentation and a beautiful Christmas time also for the Prime Minister. My question concerns the effectiveness of research and development. We measure from year to year and from country to country the ratio between their expenditure and their GDP. The expenditure has really increased very quickly, but can we get more effective and better science for this, how many units of science do we get for every point of GDP? I am suggesting that we can open a concrete and glass building at Tallinn University every year or pay researchers a better salary, but there is still no internationally competitive science.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U16	Thank you for a good question. But I don't want to agree with this critical undertone. Our science is increasingly competitive on a global scale year by year. Various indicators describe competitiveness and competitiveness gains. After all, the number of publications may be criticised as an indicator of scientific efficiency, yet it is used everywhere in the world. The number of publications in Estonia has increased year after year and this dynamic has been quite good. There are now 1631 publications in 2012, with 1573 in 2011 and only 570 in 2000. The referenceness of publications, the works of Estonian scientists, is also the measure of the effectiveness of science. There is no reason to be ashamed of Estonian scientists in this regard. Yes, the research results have not been transferred to the real economy as quickly as we would have liked, but it will take time, as I said in my speech, to implement scientific achievements. One thing is certain, I have said this before from this speaker: if carrot seed is not put in the soil, then in autumn there is no reason to go up to the carrot bed to pick up carrots. The same is true of science: if you do not invest, there is little reason to expect results. In terms of R &amp; D investment, if invested today, there will be no harvest in a year's time, because this investment cycle, the return cycle, is much longer than one year, much longer than one election period of the Riigikogu. And it is all the more appreciated that there has been a consensus in Estonia on R &amp; D investments, a political party-wide consensus in the Riigikogu. Estonia has been among the first to increase the volume of research investments in the European Union. Absolutely, yeah, last year we took a big leap. We do not have to be ashamed that last year was deviant, 2.41% of gross domestic product for R &amp; D next to the late 1.63. This was largely due to investments in the oil industry. However, this 2.41% is a reality and tells us that we have approached the most advanced industrialised countries in the European Union in terms of R &amp; D investment. That's something we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U17	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U18	Thank you, Prime Minister. Indeed, the Estonians have such a proverb: "A man planting a tree in the evening cannot expect it to be ripe next morning. " This also applies, of course, to research and development. The cooperation of your government with Finland with the joint visits of entrepreneurs and foreign ministers, joint meetings of R &amp; D committees are very sympathetic. I think that, given the close link between our economies, this is the right way to go. But I'd ask you more. How do you assess how seriously we can still talk about contributing to R &amp; D in planning a new budget period for the European Union in the face of this whole crisis? What should help us in later developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U19	Thank you. In the final 7th Framework Programme, Estonian scientists have been successful. As a percentage of gross domestic product, as I mentioned earlier, we have been the most successful applicants for funds. But there are certain shades of success. Our scientists took off quickly, and therefore they were very successful in applying for funds in the initial period of the 7th Framework Programme, but the economic crisis forced most Member States of the European Union to cut their R &amp; D investment. Therefore, competition for FP7 funds increased significantly and our chances of obtaining funds in this increased competition became narrower. So for Estonian researchers, the trend in obtaining FP7 funding is not upward, but, unfortunately, quite downward. Competition has become extremely intense. The new multi-annual budgetary plan provides for a new Horizon 2020 R &amp; D &amp; T Investment Programme. Unfortunately, we have not been able to reach an agreement on the multiannual budgetary plan this year, and unfortunately I have to say from this chair that enough of those who wish to further cut the next budget of the European Union consider it one way to cut the resources of Horizon 2020. Since we know that research funding is clearly competitive rather than Member States-based, the prospect of financing our research through Horizon 2020 is not the most rosy. But, as has already been said, I consider Estonian science and researchers to be very competitive, and I am sure that, just as they have been successful in applying for FP7, they are also successful in applying for Horizon 2020 funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U20	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! In addition to your presentation, it's nice to observe this discussion that we have a great government, isn't it? But I'm asking the other side. In R &amp; D, the first point is the science side, and on this subject you have already said quite a lot in response to two questions. I'm asking about the development. If, after all, we meet your courts also with a large number of entrepreneurs who are actually carrying out development activities that we are quite proud of in our reports, they will bring out a series of problems that hinder them in order to be even more innovative and contribute even more to our development. You are certainly familiar with these key issues, such as the approach taken by the Citizenship and Migration Board. You have probably heard of a lack of tolerance, as well as a lack of preferential business development, which would support those companies that make a special contribution to innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U22	Thank you. Surely you agree that the government in which you were the Minister of Education and Research was also a great government in terms of R &amp; D investment. The government in which you worked as a minister also paid due attention to research and development and did not neglect this area. Thank you for that. Prioritisation of sectors is certainly crucial, but it must not be overzealous to use administrative levers in this prioritisation. The priority areas for development must be viable and can be developed in areas that are very clearly evolving. Science administration is a very delicate subject. We know from other parts of the world a number of examples of how people who have been set priorities in research have made totally wrong decisions in development. To illustrate, let me give you a remote example. For years, a Japanese company applied for a license to import technology for the production of transistors, because after the war, the country controlled all foreign exchange transactions in Japan. For years, this company was not authorised to introduce technology. It was considered pointless and pointless. Now we all know that this company was Sony and once he was allowed to introduce this technology. Examples of such total miscalculations can be found in a number of countries. In the Soviet Union, no attention was paid in the past to the development of information and communication technologies. In the five-year plans, only your steel and oil tons were counted until one day it was discovered that the Americans were already using computers in armaments. I am not just giving these examples of large countries. In Estonia, too, we should not think that power knows better than scientists, which scientific trends in Estonia are viable, evolutionary and which are not. These areas, which are already competitive on a global scale, need to be supported. Priority must be continued, but this is not a robust ax work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U23	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you spoke about cooperation between Estonia and Finland, and I know very well that this has really been a success for a long time. While there was a conference on the Baltic Sea Strategy a few years ago, I proposed such an ambitious idea that it is not time to think about the creation of the Northern Baltic Research Area, i.e. to work more closely together with other Nordic countries and the Baltic States, in addition to Finland. How do you think this is an idea that you should continue to reflect on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U25	Thank you. On a practical level, such cooperation takes place, very good cooperation between several Estonian and Swedish universities, we can also, in a sense, talk about Nordic-Baltic clusters, clusters in the sense of science. In the field of biotechnology, for example, we are working very closely with scientists from Sweden, Finland and other countries, and we see cooperation in a number of other areas, as is the case in the field of biotechnology. This European Spallation Source, which is a joint project with a location in Sweden, mentioned in my speech, is also necessary, and not just for researchers from one country, but for scientists from many other countries, including Estonian physicists. This model of Nordic-Baltic cooperation is already a reality in several fields of research and, of course, if the model works, it should be further developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U26	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U27	Thank you very much. It's nice to have the Prime Minister proud of the funding of our science. Personally, I think we have plenty of room for improvement, especially looking north and west. Could you mention what was the largest research project that received money from the European Union in 2011 and what was the amount of research money that could be compared?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U28	Thank you. It is difficult for me to mention one of the hundreds of projects funded by the 7th Framework Programme, and whether it is possible to rank these projects according to the euro at all, I have the same reservations. I have already mentioned that we have 158 joint research projects with Finland, for example. That Monday and Tuesday I was in Israel. In consortia where both Estonian and Israeli scientists participate, applications for funding from FP7 have also been very successful. In total, there are projects where Estonian and Israeli scientists work together and which have been funded from the 7th Framework Programme, as much as 50. These projects are very, very numerous; they are from very different areas. Most of the projects are in the medical and biotechnology fields, but they are characteristic of modern science and research funding as a whole. The amount of money received from very, very different projects and the level of funding depends on the size, importance and, for example, how international the project is. It is not the case that the project is only Estonia's. It is also the case that very many countries are participating in the project. How to draw up a ranking of funding in this case and tell me which project is the most expensive, that is not exactly what I am imagining.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U29	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! There are certainly many good and very good examples of government, research and transnational R &amp; D cooperation. My question concerns two concrete examples of research. We didn't give Nord Stream permission for research. Don't we want to know what's going on? Okay, here we can still understand that Russia and so on. Another example is that VKG wanted to explore deeper our phosphorite stuff. Again, the government says no to research. Why we act like this, I don't understand it. Maybe you'll explain to me, based on these two examples, about research. Who doesn't investigate, doesn't know, doesn't know, doesn't know how to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U31	Thank you. There is a difference between the study and the study. I'm in favour of knowledge, and that's why I'd like the detectives to do more research. But there's a difference between a detective and a detective, and a big difference in research is who gets the results of the study. I don't think anyone basically has anything against our subterranean research. But if these studies mean drilling through several geological layers, then they may also represent a potential risk of pollution or a fall in groundwater levels in some area, precisely because different layers are drilled through. Then we must always consider whether our knowledge outweighs the damage to individual people in a particular region. If allowing research leads to a legitimate expectation that the results of the study will be realised in practice, this research permit will have a much greater weight than simply obtaining knowledge. I'd like to bring a parallel to the planning process. Once the plan is initiated, whoever initiated the plan will have some kind of expectation that if there are no objections, his own will can be realized. Underground research also raises some legitimate expectations for applicants. If research is allowed, it is basically not purely scientific, but applied research, and the research financier can assume that if the studies produce a positive result, they have the right to materialise the results, i.e. to start mining. As far as seabed exploration is concerned, the position of the Government of the Republic is clear: we do not want knowledge of the existence and volume of our earth's resources to fall first into the hands of someone else, and maybe not later on, our own hands. It is also a basis under international law for refusing to grant a study permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U32	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U33	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Prime Minister! The level of medicine and medical education in Estonia are quite good, but unfortunately our doctors and other medical staff leave Estonia. Do you not have such a good formula as to make it possible for our doctors to stay at home and for patients from other parts of Europe to be treated in Estonian hospitals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U34	Both trends will probably continue in the next few years, both the arrival of Estonian doctors outside Estonia and the arrival of patients in Estonian hospitals. I believe that this first trend in terms of taking off from work for purely economic reasons will be reduced, but in terms of obtaining knowledge, I would like to see this trend getting worse. Estonian medicine has won a great deal of the fact that our doctors have been able to practice in the world's top hospitals for some time. There are certain areas of treatment that have evolved in Estonia only because one, two or three doctors have worked at the world's top hospitals for some time. For example, extracorporeal fertilization. When Andrei Sõürits decided to go to Germany to study extracorporeal assisted reproductive technology, there were a lot of skeptics in Estonia. We were found not to have developed enough artificial insemination; the time for extracorporeal fertilisation was too early, certainly not ripe, for many people. One of the real enthusiasts in the brown to acquire all this technology properly, and the others began to do what one could. This was followed by a national fertility programme, and we now know that in a short time more than 2% of all new Estonian citizens have seen the light of the weather due to extracorporeal fertilisation. Or a bone marrow transplant. If Hele Everaus had not gone to Paris and Tel Aviv in his time, then in Estonia bone marrow transplantation would hardly be as good as it is today. In general, we can say that very many people in Estonia are alive because one doctor once decided to go to the world's top hospitals, acquired a completely new treatment method, came back and applied it here in Estonia. I wish that the people of Estonia would have a wider desire, not only in the field of medicine, but also in the wider world to go and study there. I would, of course, like them to come home and apply what they have learned here. With the arrival of patients in Estonia, I believe that the situation has improved from year to year. One way is, of course, for Estonian doctors to go to work outside Estonia, the other is for patients to come to Estonia for treatment. When the free movement of patients applies in the European Union, patients are able to receive treatment in any country, I believe that Estonian doctors, the Estonian medical system, are also able to offer this medical help to citizens of other countries. The tendency to come to Estonia for treatment from third countries, especially Russia, is considerable. The quality of treatment is very good in several areas in Estonia and some of the people who in previous times preferred to be treated in Switzerland now prefer, for example, the University of Tartu Hospital, because the quality is as good, but in Estonia some patients can handle their native language and this is an additional motivation why patients come to Estonia. The Enterprise Estonia Foundation has also invested quite a lot to allow patients from outside Estonia to come here for treatment. I know that in our dental clinics, for example, the proportion of patients in Finland, but also in Western European countries, is increasing. This is a pleasant trend and I think that our country should in future also encourage coming to Estonia for treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U35	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U36	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, Prime Minister, thank you also for a concise presentation. I'm gonna ask you, referring to the report. You claim that our public investment in R &amp; D has also significantly increased investment by businesses, the business sector. On the other hand, our research outputs continue to be commercialised. Although it has been referred to as something abstract, it is still very real and very specific. I have a question about your assessment. Do you think you can be satisfied with the growth in the share of R &amp; D expenditure in our business sector and the growth in the commercialisation of its research outputs? Is the speed of our development in this area sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U37	Thank you. As I said when I answered the questions before, the rate of growth in Estonia is good. However, let us admit that last year's sharp increase in R &amp; D expenditure from 1.63% of GDP to 2.41% of GDP is extraordinary. This is largely due to investments in the oil industry. With the same speech next year, we will probably have to admit that we were unable to maintain this level. The rate of growth, not including investments in the oil industry, has actually been very good. In Estonia, this rate of growth has been one of the best compared to other EU Member States. With the return on investment, it will take time for R &amp; D, as has already been said. The payback period is certainly not measurable in months or years or others. It'll take time. There's no guarantee of profitability. No one can guarantee, in the case of research investments, that the investments will pay off at all. For some investments, it is only in the next generation that they will pay off, and those who have made the investments will leave this world relatively disappointed. They think they've wasted money. Only later will it be clear how valuable these investments have given mankind. For R &amp; D investments, monitoring of different indicators is certainly appropriate. But there must always be a space of trust in scientists, their intuition and perhaps the hope that these investments will pay off.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U38	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The results of recent years, as well as the forecasts for the next few years, show that several Asian countries and very many countries on the American continent are investing most in R &amp; D, both financially and in human resources. In Asia, for example, Japan, which is known, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, China is growing rapidly. Tell me, please, what are Estonia's opportunities to cooperate with these countries, whether they exist or whether you will see a future perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U40	Thank you. Science is cross-border, science is global and people who understand each other find each other regardless of where a particular scientist does research in the country. Yes, in several countries the share of R &amp; D expenditure in gross domestic product is much higher than in Estonia. However, there is a general rule for comparing such indicators, which should also apply to the comparison of R &amp; D investments. That means you can't get a full picture of the dull numbers. The level of R &amp; D investment in a given country depends very much on a specific industry. In other words, there are certain areas that require higher R &amp; D investment than others. The industry, for example, is the world's most focus on R &amp; D. There is no car industry in Estonia, so we do not have the source of R &amp; D investment that drives R &amp; D investment in the rest of the world. It's exactly the same with the pharmaceutical industry. In Estonia, yes, some pharmaceutical industry is, and our scientists are involved to some extent in the development of new medicines and are participating in global R &amp; D investments in the pharmaceutical industry, but quite their own pharmaceutical industry in the sense that would enable universities and research communities to be maintained, we do not. The forest and timber industries are traditionally not as research intensive in the world as the automotive or pharmaceutical industries. Despite the fact that there are no research-intensive industries in Estonia, we have a level of R &amp; D investment of 2.41% of GDP. I am very pleased about that. We have reached more than 2%, which in general stands for membership of the industrialised countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U41	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The Government of the Republic has approved an action plan for the development of innovative start-ups in 2011-2013. At the beginning of the approval of this action plan, Europe had around 4% of young innovative companies, and in Estonia their share was 1 to 2%. As Prime Minister of Estonia, how do you assess the real implementation of this action plan and whether the target taken has been moved closer? Has the gap between the number of innovative start-ups in Estonia and the number of companies in Europe, perhaps also Japanese and American, decreased and we are moving towards the target set?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U43	Thank you. We are definitely moving towards the objectives, and without this programme, we would probably have moved towards the goal much slower. When comparing Estonia's innovation situation with that of other European Union Member States, Estonia's 14th place in the European Union is not bad at all. When Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Germany are called innovation leaders, they are followed by one group of countries, they are the followers of innovation leaders, and Estonia belongs to this group. So this is a good enough position for Estonia. We know that our start-ups have been successful in various competitions, they have been awarded, but, of course, we have much more to do in order to make the system more comprehensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U44	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U45	Thank you. Prime Minister! The programme of action of the Government of the Republic sets out a plan to support the infrastructure of science parks. What is your opinion whether research parks should find their own resources to invest in infrastructure in cooperation with business, or whether the Government of the Republic should financially support the expansion and construction of research parks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U46	Thank you. The Government of the Republic has already supported the development and expansion of science parks and it will probably continue to do so in the future. In R &amp; D, private capital and public sector, non-profit sector resources should account for two to one: two parts from the private sector, or 2 euros from the private sector and 1 euro from the public sector. This proportion should also be applicable to science parks. I do not think that development in research parks should only be financed by private capital. As we know, that is not the case. Several scientific ideas have been applied in our science parks. Of course, the pace of implementation, the success rate could always be better, but I am convinced that, in principle, we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U48	Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U49	I'm opening negotiations. Please beg the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu to the speech chair Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I promise to use our common time here in a sustainable way, and I would like to draw attention to three issues on behalf of the Socialist Group, and also to make one proposal. The first issue, which is most relevant for next year, is the cost of infrastructure for research institutions, i.e. infrastructure, in connection with opening up the electricity market and rising electricity prices. In recent years, there has been a great deal of investment in scientific equipment, building buildings that meet today's scientific requirements. While these buildings and equipment may be sustainable, the need for energy in certain areas is increasing. What happens next year? The increase in electricity prices will exert great pressure on the budget of higher energy efficiency research institutions. Costs will increase by a quarter or more, even 38% in Biomedics, but the amount of infrastructure will not increase as the country's budgetary strategy has frozen expenditure until at least 2015. The opening of the electricity market and the resulting increase in electricity prices have not hit us unexpectedly. What are the alternatives to research institutions? Keep expensive equipment running, but give up people, or vice versa, turn off the equipment and keep people working. Where is the strategic planning? This is in any case a matter of national budgetary strategy, and this budget strategy should have better foreseen the effects of opening up the electricity market. Secondly, the impact of the European Union Structural Funds and the Research Facility on the development of Estonian science has been significant in recent times. A new financial period is about to begin, but we do not know what the volume of the European Union budget, including the research facility, will be. Here Estonia's positions need to be consolidated. We must not become, in any way, a hostage to the Structural Funds. We depend on the subsidies that come from the European Union, but at the moment we do not know how the European Union's budget will develop. As the Prime Minister has also mentioned, it has been said that the science budget in the European Union can be drastically reduced. How this affects the so-called critical and strategic mass of Estonian science, this is also a matter of strategic planning. Three. A year ago, at the time of the Prime Minister's presentation, there was quite a lot of talk about the career model of a researcher, the career model of a young scientist, how talented students and doctoral students would continue their activities in the field of science, not switch disciplines, not switch fields, not leave Estonia. A scientist's career model is a subject that is sometimes spoken of. There are also certain support structures, certain ideas for implementing this model, but still it is rather a model that sounds in our stories, perhaps in documents, but the model must also be applied to real life. This is a very serious issue when we look at our scientific follow-up, which is not very promising. These are the three things I wanted to bring out here. This proposal specifically concerns Parliament. The R &amp; D strategy that is still in force will end next year, and right now it would be the right time for the Committee on Culture, and why not, in cooperation with the Committee on Economic Affairs, start parliamentary hearings on research policy and development. And if we already know in more detail what the budget of the European Union is going to be, then a debate on the future of Estonian science could be held in this large hall as a matter of national importance. It would be such a concrete proposal for us in this Chamber. But, of course, I also want to express the hope that the Ministry of Education will work hard to develop a new strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U51	Thank you. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, President of the Riigikogu Ene Ergma.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! To be honest, I didn't intend to come to this address, but by listening to your presentation and the questions that were asked in this Chamber, I decided to come and tell you what seemed most important to me. As regards the Estonian economy and the transfer of research results to the economy, believe me, I am a fundamental scientist in my field of study, and I was interested in making science with much more black holes and neutron stars than in how this knowledge can be used in the economy. Today, we already know very well that research equipment for black holes is an excellent apparatus that can be used, for example, to study the heart. But if we now start talking about what is Estonia's biggest problem, I think the biggest problem in Estonia is that Estonian young people, not only Estonian young people, but also young people across Europe, are going through so-called soft specialties as their specialty. We produce hundreds of PRs, a large number of lawyers, social scientists, etc. I have nothing against these specialties, and I think they have to be, but I think the proportions are out of place. The proportions are so seriously out of place that, as far as I know, even the largest faculty of the Tallinn University of Technology is the Faculty of Social Sciences. But we are lacking young engineers, high-tech specialists who will launch a new start for innovation in the Estonian economy. Very serious journals discussing what the specialties of the future are today call future specialties that affect technology. So we have a great job to do to explain to our fine young people that these specialties will also give bread with butter in the future. And one more thing that has been asked very often here: how quickly will the results of the research, or even the results of the work that we are doing, reach the economy? I loved it when the Prime Minister spoke about sowing carrot seed and harvesting in the autumn. Yes, carrot yield can only be harvested three months after seed sowing, but scientific results often reach economic output after a very, very long time. I can give you one example, I'm sorry, I'm talking again about my beloved horse from space. If we had not started operating in 2006 so that Estonia could become a member of the European Space Agency, Estonia's fine students, together with Mart Noorma, would hardly have been so bold in 2008 that they would have started building a student satellite. Think of it: 2006 and 2013! Let's hope at the beginning of April this satellite really gets sent into orbit. It's the same with another project. Myon's development began a very long time ago at the University of Tartu, which was in the 70s of the last century. When someone was watching "The Spectator" this year, he saw great pictures of this apparatus being tested on parabola flights. There is a possibility that Myoton will be able to board the ISS, an international satellite station, where it will be retested. This apparatus certainly has a great future, since it can also be used in many other places. It simply needs to be understood that, indeed, the results of many of the current research initiatives cannot be anticipated by scientists themselves. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U53	Thank you. I invite a representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group to the Riigikogu Chair. Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U54	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U55	I remember very well how the theorist Peter Higgs, who invented this famous Higgs boson in the 1960s, was very moved when 50 years had passed and had the opportunity to see the output of the experiment he had made 50 years ago as a young man. And to get this result, believe me, hundreds of thousands of scientists and engineers worked, including Estonians. And I am very pleased that Estonian physicists were in the same room as Higgs' boson was confirmed. So we have a lot of great research results. Finally, I would like to mention the scientific result of Professor Ülo Ninemets, which has been recognised by the grant of one of the most awesome European Research Council grants. There are really high-level players in this league. We have good scientists, but we must continue to work to ensure that the results of their work reach our economy as well, and I am convinced that this will happen. I fully agree with Mart Meri that we could have a serious discussion here on how the Riigikogu can contribute better to solving these interesting problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U56	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The President of the Riigikogu has very rightly accentuated the balance between disciplines. Of course, we have talked a lot about the internationalisation of science and that the more international science there is, the more successful Estonian scientists are. But, esteemed academician Ergma, the term "interdisciplinarity" is increasingly at issue in our scientific development, and I am pleased that you have nothing against soft professionals either. I would also like to make a few points of emphasis on behalf of the Reform Party Group. After all, of course, the Prime Minister represents not only the government but also his own political party, or the Reform Party, but some thoughts, however, on what he has said. The wise Confucius of the Orient has such a thought that you can run very quickly, but if you run in the wrong direction, it will be a pity instead of profit. I dare confirm that we have moved in the very right direction in the formulation and implementation of R &amp; D policies. And if we all remember in our sleep that 2% of our GDP goes to the development of defence capabilities, then we might also know in our sleep that 3% goes to research and development. That is our aim, and that is where we need to move firmly, because it is our defence capability in a broader sense and therefore a much needed area. In this respect, it is very important that 3% of contributions are made by both the public and private sectors. In the private sector, of course, the central issue in terms of research and development, the tasting of their fruits and, above all, the implementation of innovation, is that more and more people with doctorates enter businesses. I want to emphasise the importance of entrepreneurship education here. This is very important because our economic structure should be such that there are more and more companies where the implementation of innovation would lead to rapid productivity growth. Of course, we would also have wage increases and other social benefits more quickly. It is entrepreneurship training that directs young people to entrepreneurship, helps them to make this decision and, in general, shapes such a model in society that it is right and good to be entrepreneurial. Of course, this is accompanied by the third component of education, or creativity. We talk very often about the importance of knowledge, but education has three components: knowledge, skills and creativity. It is precisely social skills and creativity that are essential components for realising the achievements of R &amp; D. We have repeatedly stressed the latter's need here today. We have already adopted university law at the beginning of this work. The higher education reform will start on 1 September 2013 for students who will be matriculated according to the new system. What serious reform should this bring? What foundations have been created to take account of certain needs in the University Act, which was also discussed here by the Chairman of the Riigikogu? One very important factor is scholarships. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U57	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U58	Scholarships should enable both the public sector and businesses more, and it is through them that future students should be directed to make choices in favour of so-called hard professions. There are many different aspects of R &amp; D and innovation implementation that should be discussed, such as links to general education as well as vocational education. There is a draft law on vocational training institutions in our proceedings, and I very much hope that we will work on it so that the implementation of innovation through vocational education can provide a more solid basis in Estonia. Organisation of traineeships is certainly a central issue in this regard. One of the topics that will certainly come up next year is the establishment and development of competence centres across Estonia, especially in different places. Let me give you an example. The Prime Minister mentioned a wood cluster where it is not possible to create as much added value as, for example, the pharmaceutical industry. At the same time, the establishment of a competence centre at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre on the surface of the wood cluster gives a strong boost to development in the region of south-eastern Estonia. There are many moments at stake here, and I am convinced that we will take all these aspects into account when preparing the debate on R &amp; D as a crucial national issue. But my wish for Christmas, as well as the wish of the entire Group of the Reform Party, is a call to remember well that 3% of GDP spends Estonia on research and development. We are working, we are creating development conditions so that both the public sector and businesses can contribute to this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U59	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U60	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! We are discussing today the state of play in research and development and the future in a situation where children are waiting for Santa Claus at Christmas Eve. It's like everyone's listening carefully to a kindergarten teacher speech, but they're actually wondering if there's gonna be a knock soon. In this Chamber, too, many people have ideas about Christmas, and this also confirms that we should actually come back to the subject of research and development at the beginning of 2013. Then perhaps the moods of the night sessions have subsided, and we will be able to discuss this subject a little longer and more substantively in addition to today. Certainly today's presentation by the Prime Minister was a sufficient overview of how our scientists have been very successful in applying for a European grant. They have been competitive and indeed there is nothing to be ashamed of. And scientists in our small country have not only been a member of projects, but have also been a leading force on quite a number of occasions, the main brain. At the same time, we need to be careful with a more distant perspective and it is not appropriate for the opposition not to worry about things here in the Riigikogu either. Perhaps a little more than that, I would like to emphasise these other sides alongside this success story. One issue that was too briefly touched today concerns areas which are not very popular in Europe and which perhaps have not been supported at all with European money. As a result of higher education reform, quite a lot of higher education is becoming English. There are areas that must remain in Estonian and which must also receive support from us for Estonian-centric science. There are areas that exist only in Estonia and remain only in Estonia. We certainly must recognise here together that funding in these areas is not sufficient. Is only a success story in Europe enough to assess our success in 2012 and say that our R &amp; D performance was fully successful? Surely the members of the Riigikogu have also been directly connected to many sectors, who have also highlighted their concerns before today's debate. Perhaps most of all, this is what I have already emphasised today, and it has been neglected by the development side. Especially when we look at the difficulties that the private sector has experienced in times of crisis and at how little, in fact, unlike many other European companies, has received state support from our companies that really contribute more to development and innovation. And it is not only state support in financial terms, but there are very many other very clearly practical issues involved. You are certainly familiar with the gauntlet that our technology companies have to go through in the Citizenship and Migration Board to invite good and very good specialists from third countries. Surely you have encountered problems that a young person, perhaps a very talented young person from a third country, has graduated from higher education here and on the same day as he receives his graduation diploma, we have urged him to take his knowledge out of Estonia. Perhaps it is time for the Riigikogu to seriously discuss possible exceptions to this objective in order to support innovation and development. And more importantly, perhaps together we can come up with effective techniques to take innovation and development beyond Tallinn and Tartu, also to the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U61	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I thank you for a meaningful debate, for a lot of questions and meaningful speeches. But I'd like to get rid of a misconception that sounded from this talking board. It is not true that the proposed multiannual budgetary framework could reduce R &amp; D and education expenditure. According to the initial plans proposed by the European Commission, R &amp; D and education investments would have increased by around 39% over the next seven years in the European Union, according to my memory, compared to the current budgetary plan. There is now a risk that this very large increase in budget expenditure will be cut. But I can be sure of that, and you too can be sure that there will be an increase in R &amp; D and education spending in the next financial period in the European Union. Now, electrical issues. Yes, energy needs are certainly different in different research institutions. The total cost of the University of Tartu is 1% for electricity. In some other research institutions, the share of energy in spending is higher, but I believe that the budgets of all research institutions and universities have been drawn up in such a way that energy expenditure can also be covered. I understand you're already on the Christmas wave, and you'll be interested in research and development once more after Christmas. However, I would like to say a few more words on the issue of the balance of so-called soft and natural sciences and engineering disciplines. It is common practice to wish all the time that science scientists, science students and doctoral students could be much more, engineers could be much more than they are now. In general, however, it has long been proven in the world that young people are better able to predict future needs in their educational choices than highly qualified professionals in education ministries in different countries. So let us also trust our young people in their choices. Let us believe that they are pretty good at predicting the future! If our industry is not at such a level as to require a mass of top-level engineers, of course a young person will not make that choice. I agree with the esteemed Ene Ergma, and I also recommend that young people pay more attention to science and engineering. At the same time, I also respect those who prefer these softer disciplines, and I respect philosophers and historians very much. Thank you for a meaningful debate. I wish you a peaceful Christmas, and I wish you the best of verses and songs for Santa Claus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U63	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This item is closed. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your work this year. Christmas Day and New Year's Eve, I wish you strength in your affairs, but also a beautiful holiday and time to be with your loved ones!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U64	Please, President of the Riigikogu, and Santa Claus, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U65	So here we are, Ene, dating you! Every day we practiced and went 30 km, and now we're here nicely. Thank you. Hello, Mr. Chairman. Now he's somewhere else... Oh, yes, it's so good to see you! I'm about to see how much wisdom people have gained over the years. Marianne, I'm so glad to see you! Look, you've been traveling a lot, but look, you've got a nice way home for Christmas. There are new people, you see. Let's give it a round of applause here! [[Let's hear it.]] It's just the first moments, I guess they're kind of heavy. And look, cameramen too. Let's wave at 'em, too! Let's give them a round of applause for this year's very good work! Very good work! [[Let's hear it.]] And you good people have worked hard to make sure you're still interesting sometimes. I sleep in the summer, but I still have a TV sometimes, and then I'll see what you're doing. In the summer, the halls were empty, and I was happy too, because it has to be. I slept too. But it started to feel like you're taking your job pretty hard. I made sure no one went home in the meantime. It was so nice to see you right away. People are at work. I knew you slept here, too, and when I saw Kadri giving Andrus pillows, I knew it was going to get bigger. But then it went to work. Thank you for the beautiful harvest you've made this time! I think it is very good that with the opening up of the electricity market, everything is now clear. The poorest people can go straight to the power plant and wash their laundry and fry the egg, don't have to bother with the packages. The other thing is the funding of political parties. I also began to think that, in fact, my own funding is quite confusing. Where do all these gifts come from? All that sleigh ride? You have to think about it, and you have to ask yourself how it really is with my funding. It's a good thing we're working this out nicely. I'm glad you helped me do this! I asked you to leave the bouquet. I was gonna give it to one person, but now he's gone. I'll take care of one more thing. Many people think Juku-Kalle is not human. Actually, he is my elf. Thanks for that blogging job. I mean, it was just meant for us to communicate with each other, but it just kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of just kind of kind of smacked up and got out of hand. I thought maybe it was the water left by the Prime Minister, but it wasn't. Get the taste! However, the Christmas man's bag has always been filled, and I am happy to ask the representative of each group to come here. First of all, I would like to see good social democrats here. I'll see if I can find it. Yes, I will. I got a present in my homemade plastic bag. I'll show you later. Who's from the Social Democrats? Wow! That's good! I'm gonna get this bag out of the way. Step over here. You have your own microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U66	I've got my own mike, yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U67	So what is this, then, the New Testament? No?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U68	Almost. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Santa Claus! Ladies and gentlemen, The Socialist poem for Santa Claus is a little serious this time and actually a religious background. Well, Christmas Day is a religious holiday, and in its way and context, it is still very well suited to today. I will use our beloved poet Anna Wound, who wrote this at the beginning of the last century. Where did he go now...?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U69	He's hiding in the book.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U70	I got it! I got it! But here's the poem: "Step down to the crowd, Teacher, shepherd. To prevent the ravines from growing, Rocks between you. Only the commandments, the teachings, They won't make the people happy, if you can't be friends, Or brother to him. Step out of the narrow circle, explain your eyes: a new land and a new nation. I wonder if you'll find it. Do you know this people, his bosom beating, His joy, his concern, A spirit flight, a fight? If you don't, if you don't understand just a foreign nation, a foreign language # How do you want to go to heaven # To lead him again?! Step down into the crowd, Teacher, shepherd. Virus, Võru, East, West We wait longing."
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U71	Yeah, I can clap. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U72	This is how Anna wrote the Wound, and all these principles apply to this day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U73	That's it! I'm handing over gifts from here, too. I'm gonna show the others that they're jealous. There's a fur cap and there's ice cubes in it. They're for Sven, so now that we have a new leader party, he'll have a cold head: put it on his head, and there's ice in it. There are no seeds, the seeds will come a little later. Since every Prime Minister But make sure you hand it over nicely. The ice melts in a couple of years, so it's okay. That's it, that's it. [[Let's hear it.]] In fact, I still have quite a few things for the good kids. I'm looking at... Uh-huh! One of the greatest gifts is for a large political group, the Central Party. I thought Peter was coming! Last year he wanted to, too, but then he went, like he did.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Santa Claus! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of our group, I will be speaking. We don't have poetry from foreign poets. Everyone has put some thoughts into it. Our group's poem, homemade, sounds like: "Fat and sweet Christmas Eve, round as a keg of beer, on behalf of our party I expect a Christmas miracle from you! Give it to everyone. who we sit in the hall, A little more sense, More friendship, less fighting! Give it to share. There's something for the people! The best part is money. folks really want it (I think that Christmas Eve also) but on top of that rejoice each one of us in the way! Gender equality for the Sots, a reform rating to save from hell, To the Fatherland, the Estonian Air, Democrats for More Pressure be placed on it, Everyone makes a career! But our party, the brotherhood of the bus lane, Take and take the coalition, Fix our position! We have ideas and ideas, We've got a start, in addition to virtue, views-states, Being better." I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U75	And you don't want any more time? Actually, you don't need that time! I've got some really nice colored yarn and rods here for you. You have so much to do in the Riigikogu that there will certainly be time to knit, although I know that this is more of Liisa's specialty. Please, please! Have a nice year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U76	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U77	"Language to increase GDP, farmers make rich, More herring in the Baltic Sea, We don't work out of the country. Really, stop the emigration, I guess we'll get lucky. We're gonna find and give it to the kids. Maryland here in every village, in every city, house, farm No matter who lives in them Santa Claus, look at this, please!" [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U78	Very pretty! Look, if there's a lot of people doing things, it's gonna work. I'll show the others that they're jealous again. Inside is the kind of pot you can put honey in, so I've got 101 quail eggs and an egg clock here for holidays. Ten minutes will be filled nicely here, and if the next year goes to take breaks so that this time does not go to waste every time, the middle fraction will be able to boil one quail egg for each member of the Riigikogu in that time. Good healthy and beneficial, and that's how it comes down to it. There's a little valedictorian here, too. On it you can boil water and then you can also understand where exactly it can be done, either on the right or on the left side. So the power and the success! Wait, can I have a 10-second break, please? [[Laughter.]] Now, please! [[Let's hear it.]] Time's going well, I'm glad to have some nice window-sitting people down here. Maybe your representative's coming. Let's do that these factions are unhappy or...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U79	They're all coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U80	They're all coming? In a long dream, I once saw such a picture that all the members of the Riigikogu were under the window. Perhaps such developments would in one way be good and beneficial. But here they are, our very important balancing force! And the prepared plan, I'm about to see it. Longer song?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U81	And I don't want any more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U82	A very honest Santa Claus! Weid om tillokynõ pardikõnõ siiä korjonu Riigikoguhe. In the past year, we'll never be here. Timahavva is the five of us, the twigs of the coming year, the twigs of the trench, the twigs of the twig. We're here with the point of a single scent, and we're gonna dig what future we're gonna have from the tones, and from the east we're gonna be an acorn of the fire of the verse, too. The breeze of the wind: [[Of a fat ……]] "Santa pea, Give us some sugar bread. Our connection is small. no state pie." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U83	Hi! We have a verse. We stole a little from Leelo Tung, and Santa Claus, I suggest you think about theft of intellectual property. You already thought about the money, but think about it when you put on a red coat, what about theft of intellectual property.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U84	But the verse is this: "Where reindeer go, shining candles on horns, The stars seem to be ringing, or perhaps the bell sings. No, that watch is on Ene's desk, the hall invites all of us. The night is over, the morning is dawning, no, it's not a national rave! The students have a free pass in their pockets, Grandma has an extra pension, A teacher, a savior, a doctor with a slightly bigger paycheck. But clearly, the little, the expectations are higher than the expectations. three times everything right now, or maybe a little less Hindu. We don't print for the money, but we'll triple it. take a break before deciding what we will receive as a gift." And, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask for a three-time break in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U85	Good Santa Claus, one line from me. If everyone goes under the window, Estonian democracy will be perfect!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U86	Is the remote talking to you?! [[Laughter.]] Then let him be! What else do I have here? There's an IRL left. This great community has many members, and there is a brave person who comes to Santa Claus. He's always been to me. Hi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U87	I can feel my hat burning quietly in my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U88	A talking microphone gets a new role for a while. Dear Santa Claus! President of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. Guests! The Estonian Reform Party has one new draft to submit, we are working. I'm asking for Imre Sooääre and be good, Santa, would you take a seat next to me, or would you like a government box?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U89	Yeah, everyone got a little bit to think about. You want a present? Yeah, sure! I've got a lot of batteries for you, actually, mostly for Juhani. Because he has to talk about the electricity market and the power plants all the time. It usually gets so complicated, but you give a person a handful of batteries, say, see, take the batteries!, and that's what a person is so happy to forget about. There's a lot of batteries, a lot of batteries, right now! [[Let's hear it.]] If my memory doesn't fool me, then there is another great group in Estonia: the Reform Party. That's it, there it is! There's a yellow helmet! Is Marko coming or someone else? Is Laine going out the door instead? No, he's coming here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U90	That's right, three times 10 seconds. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U91	Ah, it's going to be faster today, it's over!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U92	I'm gonna take the front square by your side right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U93	Dear Santa Claus! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I want to hand over the most recent draft this year. I propose that this bill be processed quickly here, which we are still wasting time, that we can do things faster. It's what it's supposed to be! Thank you, but I would like to introduce this bill with the words of Paul-Eerik Rummo: "There was a blizzard and there were storms, All the standards of life changed. We've got an economic downturn. Everything that flourished, it hanged. But nothing stays the same forever, Which doesn't kill, it makes you stronger. After freezing and storms Let's get back to the reforms, make corrections in the country, Let the mood rise, the wages rise, and the lives rise!" And now for the bill. This bill has already been put in your drawer by the virgats. Please, get the bill out of the drawer, let's go to this procedure right now. In fact, the Reform Party analysed how to regain the confidence of politicians in the people who wavered, and we decided to start with ourselves, right here in the Riigikogu. We will begin the reform of the Riigikogu. The biggest bottleneck has proved to be an old broken phonograph in the Riigikogu, from which the signal comes day and night. The ambassadors have asked what's going on here. TV viewers who closely followed the night sessions of the Riigikogu night and day through Tallinn Television woke up every ten minutes and complained that they couldn't sleep, something honking you. What are you honking about in the Riigikogu?! We found this old broken phonograph and it turned out to be the signal calling the same courtroom that's honking here. And we decided to start reforming it. We're proposing a new signal. We hope that you will all support this bill. That's a very good bill! It has not come from the government, nor does it need government coordination. That is why we would proceed immediately by voting in this Chamber. That's one way that's gonna sound pretty soon. If you've listened to this a little bit, you're free to sing along. There has also been one amendment to the draft. The Socialist Party Group suggests that the third verse be repeated: "The bell, the bell, the gift, the valley, the mountain. At the ringing of the jingle bell, we have Christmas again. " In accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, this amendment is not to be voted on, it will automatically enter. Thank you, Social Democrats! Now let us go to the final vote on the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U94	Good waitress, thank you very much. You've been asked a lot of questions. However, as chairman of the meeting, I am now taking a decision because the time for the sitting is running out. I promise to ask only one procedural question. Aivar Riisalu, who was first, please! Please give me a microphone for Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U95	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I understand that many young boys and girls in the Reform Party have come to work in the Riigikogu. It's all because Andrus Ansip has dragged them here with his own charisma. Does this now mean that we are going to use our law shrine as a signature not to be a historically established jo-bemolli, sorry, si-bemolli, but to use some kind of children's song to make children feel better at work? Does that mean that? Is this the kind of Estonia we wanted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U96	Mr Gräzin, first I will answer the first procedural question. Aivar Riisalu, a very good question! Since you actually hear the truth from a child, all the songs that children sing are the right ones. Please, Igor Gräzin, and this is really the last question! That's all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U97	It wasn't a procedural question, I'm gonna ask it now. In short, are music spoken by those who understand it or by all their men?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U98	Music rings in every person's soul, and I hope you all show it. But now, good people, we are preparing for the voting procedure to adopt a new law. (Sounds like the signature of a fragment from "Jingle Bell.")
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U99	And now all together! (Singing "Singing bell.")
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U100	I'm happy! Great! But I'll give you the gifts I had planned. Since you're still gonna get hit in the head, I'm gonna give it to you too. It's the House Kallast's "Manual of Operation." [[Let's hear it.]] And to Imre, too, you can look nicely at the percentage of support. [[Laughter.]] Beautiful! Anything beautiful! [[Let's hear it.]] Well, the moments we get to be together are a little low, but there are a few of them every year. And all these moments are quite appreciated. Now you can take a break, next year people will look to you in the same way and seek relief from their troubles. There were a lot of procedural questions today, I'm an old man, I have to go to the procedures myself. It's not like there's a question. Maybe in the end, so much that I can see: one thing you've done well. Sometimes you make people think you're really mad at each other. But you're actually a nice and happy family. Maybe next year you'll show the second, hidden face more. One of the things that always brings happiness is that the old Estonians did so, maybe this candy can now spread further away, is that we put each hand in our pockets, take something from there and put it in the neighbour's pocket. [[Laughter.]] And then tonight we'll see what it was. Some people may have nothing, but that's how life is. All right, Ene, let's go for a walk again! Good luck and happy New Year to you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-20_U101	The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.10.
