ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! Forty-five people registered to be present, 56 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Mart Laar and Minister of Justice Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U2	Let's start with the first question. First of all, Mr Vakra, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I have a question about the infrastructure of electric cars. The reason is simple. The Estonian state sold unused allowances to Japan for 10 million and received 500 electric cars and money to build a nationwide charging network. At the beginning of October, the first high-speed charging station for electric cars was opened on the territory of the Port of Tallinn. This caused great joy among Tallinn's social workers, but unfortunately I have to admit that this joy did not last for long. I have been approached by several social workers in Tallinn who use these cars every day. What happened to the express charge station anyway? And are there plans to build more of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U4	What happened to this particular high-speed charging station is not to be asked by the Prime Minister because it has nothing to do with the funds received from the sale of Kyoto allowances. As far as I am concerned, this company was Schneider Electric Estonia, who set up this station with one of the Estonian Telekom companies, which is the name of the company, I cannot say right now. The Estonian state and government had nothing to do with this project. The funds received from the sale of Kyoto allowances will receive 507 electric cars by Estonian social workers and the state will also subsidise the acquisition of cars by private individuals and companies. About 500 cars are planned to be further subsidised by these amounts, also covered by the Estonian high-speed charging network. The aim is to set up some 200 high-speed charging stations. The public procurement has been carried out, 160 should be the minimum limit for these stations to come. 50 high-speed charging stations should come to Tallinn and Estonia should be quite evenly and well covered as a whole. Its operating procurement has been won by ABB, and the G4S should be responsible for operating a 24-hour call centre. So the stations should come. There are 50 cars already in Estonia. Currently, there are 85 normal charging places in Estonia, the construction of high-speed charging stations will start next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U5	Please, Mr Vakra, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U6	Thank you. Rapid charging stations and electric cars are linked in that the lack of high-speed charging stations currently makes it more difficult for social workers to do their work. If you start working early in the morning, unfortunately, at some point you have to stop the car to be able to load it for a long time. Are there any sanctions in case the schedule for the construction of high-speed charging stations, as confirmed by the government, is not being complied with? Or in case some station goes the same way as that first station.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U7	Once again, the government has nothing to do with this one station that somebody put up and then took away. It's not a government project. Currently there are 85 normal charging places and they work. Rapid charging stations should give new impetus to the purchase of electric cars all over Estonia. The 50 cars that currently exist in Estonia will also be loaded in conventional charging stations, with no problems. There are 25 cars in Tallinn, 24 in Tartu and one in the municipality of Orava. Just yesterday, I saw a new section in "Actual Camera," where the social worker confirmed that he was very happy with the car, no loading problems. If you operate within a relatively small radius, there will be no charging problems, but if you want to use your car all over Estonia, you need a network of high-speed charging stations. I am not saying right now that social workers do not necessarily need high-speed charging stations and that they are needed for private individuals when they acquire electric cars. Electric cars are only encouraged to be used if there is still a certainty that cars can be loaded relatively quickly throughout the territory of Estonia. The contract has been concluded in fact, I assume that the contract has now been concluded, at least the procurement has been carried out. ABB is a very reliable and solid company. I have absolutely no reason to fear that they will suddenly be unable to fulfil the obligations they have entered into or undertake in the Treaty in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U8	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U9	The next question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U10	Minister of Justice! It is known that you personally had information about the search of the Centre Party's headquarters already in the afternoon of the day of the search, and you shared this information with other politicians. When did you find out about the search of the head office of the opposition party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U11	Honourable questioner! Indeed, I was informed the same day that the search took place. I didn't give information to other politicians. I was informed about the moment the search took place, essentially in half a day. That is also the exact answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U12	If this happens at the same time as we're on the Forum, of course there's nothing I can do until the Forum is over, as you will understand. But if you come to the practical side of the matter, in fact, the prosecutor's office, I believe that you refer to the recent scandal of the Centre Party, the principle that procedural information is first introduced to the parties to proceedings and then distributed to the public. The next working day, they shared this information. For the reason that we are not discussing here today, they had to start action on Friday and missed two days off, which is why the Centre Party had the opportunity to spread various speculations, which are certainly not all true. I do not consider it the duty of the prosecutor's office to make such an action a media show, in fact, I think it is very right that they have acted legally and introduced procedural information first to the people concerned. I don't think you or I would like to hear from the press that we're being suspected of anything. I would like to hear this from the people who are making this suspicion and carrying out this action.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U13	Thank you. Minister of Justice! You're not answering under oath here, so you can tell me what's good for you. But if you don't want to talk about the real situation, then I'm going to ask the second question hypothetically. If today, for example, while you and I are on the Forum tonight, the prosecutor's office issued a press release that two of the 31 reform parties in the Riigikogu are suspected of dealing with influence, and then it would do nothing to specify exactly what the matter is and who these people are, would you accept the situation and wait until the proceedings are completed until the end of this week or the end of next week or beyond? Or would you still be acting? And if you did, how would you act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U14	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U15	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U16	Thank you. Minister of Justice, you're wrong! The prosecutor's office issued a press release in which he put 26 members of the Riigikogu on the bench on Saturday, which, according to you, would be like a day off. According to public data, for example, businessman Toomas Luman has donated 200,000 kroons to the Reform Party at least twice in 2010. And now that we are in such a position that trade in influence can be interpreted as any contact with a party may be a matter of influence, have you told Luman that he may no longer be in contact with the Tartu, Viljandi and Kuressaare city government or with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Culture, or with most counties where reform parties are the governors? I ask you, as Minister of Justice, to assess whether it is forbidden for a party's donor to participate in procurements if there is one person from the same party in the relevant office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U17	I understand, of course, the wish of the Centre Party somehow to reduce the suspicion that two members of the Riigikogu from the Centre Party are suspected of dealing with influence. But what you need to understand: dealing with influence is an accusation that assumes that someone, or an official, is using their influence in an illegal way. This is the basis of an anti-corruption law. If you look at how the members of the Riigikogu have behaved and whether they have exercised influence illegally in this case, that is, in fact, the basis of this case. A specific case, I don't think we need to discuss here. But to say this, because it is a matter of a very small amount, the members of the Riigikogu should not be honest, it is not right. I think we should.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U18	Now, please, the questions registered on the spot! First of all, my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U19	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! If a search in an opposition office on such a scale were to take place in another European country, such as the Russian Federation or Ukraine, we would certainly be discussing this very seriously in the framework of the Council of Europe or of the European Union's partnership programmes. This extensive search has been based on suspicion, which, as has been clearly proven today, is not based on the truth, both with regard to Tallinn and with other facts. Do you, as Minister of Justice, consider such behaviour to be appropriate to the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U20	Honourable questioner! In my opinion, it is not appropriate for members of the Riigikogu to do something that could be interpreted as dealing with influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U21	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, On 21 November, the Social Democrats sent you a letter proposing to increase the independence of the Competition Authority and to end the conflict of interest, which is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is governed by both the supervision of the electricity market and the management of Eesti Energia. My question is: do we have the rule of law or not? You have to answer the letters within one month, but it's been a month and a half now. Today is January 11th, but you were obliged to reply to our letter no later than December 23rd. I ask: why have you not fulfilled your obligation under the law and responded to the letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U23	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U24	As far as I am aware, you have been informed orally that we have an analysis that will address this issue more widely. I would actually like to introduce the principles of analysis or some kind of analysis in the letter sent to you. Today, I would just send a short letter that will inform you of your analysis. If that's enough for you, you'll get it. My wish was to respond more substantially, which is why the answer has been postponed. That has been spoken to you orally, as far as I know, but if you wish, we will repeat it in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U25	Thank you. I thought the work of a politician was about dealing with influence. But I didn't want to talk about it. Instead, I wanted to ask the Minister of Justice: what right does the police have to involve journalists in police operations and allow persons detained during police operations to be filmed and photographed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U26	That is, in my opinion, a very interesting question. I have generally been of the opinion that Estonia is a free country so far and that if the press comes in and shoots or takes pictures in public space, it is the right of the press. I think you should understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U27	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U28	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Holsmer, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! My question concerns forecast inflation in Estonia. There's been a lot of talk about inflation being high. Suddenly, you would also enlighten the members of the Riigikogu as to what the inflation rate of this year might turn out to be? If compared to previous years, will it be larger or smaller? And what impact has the sales tax imposed by the Centre Party and the Social Democrats in Tallinn had on inflation? True, this year it will disappear, but maybe you can appreciate the impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U30	Last year inflation was undoubtedly high above expectations, but I cannot agree with those who think it was the highest ever. Some people even thought it necessary to call high inflation somewhere on the online portal last year or an event of the year. We don't know exactly what the inflation rate was last year, but it turned to 5%. It was relatively low compared to 10,4 or 10,6% in 2008. Similarly, inflation was much higher in 2007, while inflation was much higher in 2001. The problem, however, is inflation for Estonia. When comparing Estonian inflation with that of other European countries, Estonia's inflation level is one of the highest in the European Union. As an annual average, it is certainly much higher in Romania. In recent months, however, this figure is exactly the same in Lithuania and Poland as in Estonia. In Slovakia and the United Kingdom, inflation levels are higher than in Estonia. To date, our inflation levels have decreased, and the forecast of both Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance for this year is 2.8%, which is already a perfectly acceptable level of price stability. The effect of the sales tax when it was introduced was certainly an increase in inflation. How great that effect was exactly, none of us can tell. However, it is usually the case that, if one tax is abolished, prices will remain at the same level as they were before that tax was abolished. So I do not expect any particular fall in inflation as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U31	A matter registered on the ground, Mr Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U32	Thank you. Prime Minister! The left-wing forces use such rhetoric that the small loan burden of the Estonian state is not important at all, as the Estonian state has put its debt burden on the private sector. For me, this rhetoric is slightly hollow, because no one can force the private sector and private person to take out a loan and live in debt, but we have to pay everything in taxes on a loan taken by the state. What is the real picture of the loan burden of the Estonian private sector? Is this loan really very large in Estonia compared to our neighbours, especially Scandinavia and the Baltic States?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U33	The loan burden of the Estonian government is definitely the lowest in the European Union. Probably by the end of last year, the government debt ratio will be even below 6% of gross domestic product. We know that it is 160% in Greece, 120% in Italy, over 80% in the European Union as a whole. In Estonia, then, 6%. Those who think that when public debt is low, private debt must be high. In fact, it is not possible to find a particular correlation between private sector and public debt in European countries. If there is any correlation, you could say that where you live in the private sector, you also live in the public sector. The debt burden of Estonian private individuals is the 15th most important in the European Union, and the total debt of our private persons is a sum of 54% compared to gross domestic product. This is the average level of the European Union, 15th place. We cannot say that our private individuals are beyond comprehension in large debts, but it must be acknowledged that the debt burden was still increasing very rapidly between 2005 and 2008. What we could blame for banking and our people is that in boom years they overestimated opportunities and plunged too quickly into debt. However, the level reached is entirely the average level of the European Union. But once again: we do not have to think that because of the low level of public debt in Estonia, we have a huge debt burden in the private sector. No, it's not!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U34	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U35	The next question is from Mr Aasa to Mr Michal, Minister for Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U36	Thank you. Dear Minister, There was already news in the last political season that the law on public service is about to arrive at the Riigikogu and major political agreements have been concluded. I wanted to ask where this work has gotten to. Can we really adopt the law on public service expected for years soon in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U37	Honourable questioner! It is true that we have already done an unusual amount of work with this draft in the spirit of good lawmaking today, and let us say that this work will continue. After all, the beginning of this draft was that these same principles were discussed and approved on several occasions in the coalition groups. This bill has now become its current form, the relevant coalition working groups have reviewed it, important principles have been written down. The draft has also been on an informal as well as formal round of coordination in different ministries. To date, most ministries have given it coordination and made a lot of comments. We all understand that this is a very important reform. If you ask what are the most important options there, then surely the most emotional question is whether all salaries should be public. My personal conviction is that wages should be as public as possible in the public sector. Of course, it is worth considering the potential interference of privacy with what might come of it. At what level should pay be public, this we will probably discuss with other ministries and the government office. Another fundamental question is what is the proportion of officials and those working under employment contracts. The purpose of this distinction is, in fact, that people who do not exercise public authority should not be subject to restrictions such as those exercising public authority. There are certainly many important principles left in the draft. On the proposal of our coalition partner, IRL, we have also reviewed the draft with the view that it would be child-friendly and even family-friendly. Well, it's usually work. I personally hope that in the coming weeks we will arrive at this phase, that we can send the draft to the government, and perhaps at the end of this winter or at the beginning of spring, the Riigikogu could start working hard on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U38	Please, Mr Aas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U39	Thank you. I want to ask you about vacations. Paid holiday days are one of the biggest gaps between the private and public sectors. Some positions in the public sector can even enjoy a two-month vacation. Has there been significant progress in this regard, and will such excessively long holidays be adjusted in the new Civil Service Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U40	Yeah, there's been some progress. In fact, according to the Civil Service Act, this holiday would last 35 days. 35 days is, of course, clearly more than 28 days of the Employment Contracts Act, but this longer leave compensates for certain limitations of the strike ban, which remains in the public service, and some operating restrictions. And given the proportions, it's not as unfair as it's been so far. This is what we have come to today. There is not much to argue about in the vast majority, but this is mentioned in the various letters of coordination. I hope that this is an important source of efficiency gains in the public sector. When asked how long it will be for a transitional period, the initial draft envisaged a transitional period of two years in which people could take advantage of their extra days of leave. We have now seen that it was four years in the transition to the Employment Contracts Act, and actually we would even give four years for a transitional period. This is more useful for officials who can make their living arrangements more comfortable, and certainly more useful for the public sector in the first two years, not all holidays are taken out and not all people are on regular leave. I believe that we have achieved such a quite reasonable balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U41	And now, please, the questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Tõnis Kõvus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns one of the laws that people expect. Many have approached us with concerns about how to deal with a situation when they are disturbed by a smoker's neighbor or when they are worried about the noise that comes to them, it comes from a neighbour or from a public institution or from some third place. It is known that the previous composition of the Riigikogu has already adopted the Law Enforcement Act and that several tools have been written in it, but it has not entered into force because the draft law implementing the Law Enforcement Act has not come from the government. When could the law on law enforcement come to Parliament? It would be a real help to many people who are concerned about the disturbance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U43	Honourable questioner, thank you. This question has sounded from you before, and I have already said that I hope that this bill from the government will reach the Riigikogu at the end of this winter or at the beginning of spring. This is indeed an important law. This has been the subject of serious discussions with the five key ministries concerned. We have a longer meeting in the Ministry of Justice in the third week of January, where we look again at the bottlenecks, and then the bill could start moving. That's the schedule. I also expect this bill to move. But once again: the principles of good regulation provide that bottlenecks will be discussed before the law is passed and then bottlenecks will be eliminated. Perhaps you'll try to be patient on this for a little while longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U44	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U45	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Corruption has become a topical issue in the Riigikogu and you are known to have a new anti-corruption law in preparation in the Ministry. I would like to know how far this work is and what are the prospects for this draft to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U46	Honourable questioner, we have introduced the principles of this bill to the Riigikogu in the relevant committee. It has now been coordinated on two or three occasions in different ministries. The main thing that is still being discussed is the circle of declarants: who must make declarations in what form and how many declarations are public and how many are not. For the rest, there are no more disputes, I mean, for example, making an e-register that saves time for declarers and the public is also more accessible when all declarations are in one place. It is also clear that the principle is that assets which are used by the declarant for at least two months should be declared. There is no debate on these issues anymore, there is consensus. More generally speaking of this law, it seems to me that its general paradigm is based on such Nordic and European public and self-control, not on very strict police control. That's all right. Now we're going to go over the declarants, then the bill goes to the government, and then it comes here. I think it's gonna happen pretty soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U47	Please, Mr Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you about the law on public service. This also applies to all municipalities and many of their employees. How actively have municipalities been involved in drafting the draft and what attitude have they expressed in this regard? Any information on that? I am also thinking of the opinion of the Association of Cities and the Association of Rural Governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U49	Honourable questioner! In fact, we have received just under 30 opinions from different ministries, other institutions, associations and other associations that, on the basis of any interest or principle, bring together any organisation or person. In addition, private letters have also come. If I take a quick look here, I will name, for example, an alliance of cities and rural governments and so on. In fact, feedback has been quite active. To sum up, I would say that coordination and the search for consensus have been broader.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U50	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U51	Our last registered question is from my colleague, Meelis Mälberg, to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U52	Thank you, Mr President. On one of my fellow Member's previous questions, there was doubt as to whether Estonia was a rule of law or not. I am personally convinced that Estonia is the rule of law. But in a well-functioning rule of law, justice must be available to all people within a reasonable period of time. Both the head of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, and the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, have stated that the court proceedings are long and the state fees are abnormally high. You have repeatedly emphasised that one of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice in 2012 is the acceleration of judicial proceedings and the reduction of state fees. The 2012 state budget has also approved in this Chamber a significant increase in the amounts planned to achieve these objectives. At the same time, it is clear that just budgetary growth and the Minister's goodwill are not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U53	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U54	That is my question: how far have you come by preparing the necessary legislative changes so that our state fees will be reduced in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U55	Honourable questioner! We've actually gotten pretty far. This draft itself is ready and, in accordance with good legislative practice, we also had it examined by the judiciary under the auspices of the Judicial Association, which brings together the majority of the judges. We have received an evaluation of both parts of the draft. There are two parts in this draft: the reduction of state fees and the second part on speeding up judicial proceedings, or procedural economics, which we would like to change in the future. Today, both myself and the Ministry have received quite a few private feedback from the judges, and we have also received the opinion of the Association of Judges. In fact, in my opinion, we are going ahead quite quickly with the reduction of state fees. The plan is to bring them down from the middle of this year: lower state fees would apply from 1 July 2012. As you said, it has already been planned for the state budget, so the reduction in state fees in court will in any case come. With this, we are going faster, because this is one step that the public obviously expects, and we have also promised that this will happen in the middle of this year. Now the second part concerning the speeding up of judicial proceedings. Certain steps have been taken in this area. At the beginning of this year, a new Code of Administrative Court Procedure came into force, which should significantly speed up public procurement litigation and the whole process that concerns this area. But we will definitely move on to the area of procedural economics. At least personally, I intend, and the entire Ministry of Justice will consult the judges in the same way, that perhaps we will separate the procedural economics part of the state fees. Then, in fact, we will discuss the more general reform of the same judicial area, which was discussed at length by the previous Riigikogu. But it's kind of a point at first, it's not an official position at all. But that is where we are going.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U56	Please, a matter registered on the ground, Mr Küttt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I can assure you that the Viljandi courthouse of the Tartu County Court has always been quick to deal with and solve problems. But my question is about this amendment to the law that, as of 1 July, the topic of the reporting of guardians has also gone to the courts, the review of the reports is the monitoring of the courts. Do you have any information on how courts can deal with the same material and labour resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U58	After all, I have been to courthouses all over Estonia and talked to judges about this. Well, he's a little bit of a case where there's a lot of responsibilities assigned to the courts. In some respects, this may be because at least the legislator at the time was found to justify his decision, so that the courts could make decisions on this matter and, in certain cases, be the guardian. Whether this is always justified and whether there are bottlenecks in such a procedure needs to be discussed separately. For example, the judges have made comments on whether the same fact must always be verified, especially when it comes to, for example, any health problems that do not change. On these issues, this implementation can perhaps be improved. As far as the Court's resources are concerned, the whole area covered by the family law is currently under analysis. If we are going towards the economics of judicial proceedings and, in fact, to speed up judicial proceedings more widely, I believe that this also concerns this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U59	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U60	We've been through all the registered questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I can already see you registering other issues. Then please tell me who you are asking the question to. Let's start with my colleague Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U61	Thank you. How nice of you to be able to ask about topical issues. Mr. Prime Minister! Today a newspaper article was published by a well-known doctor, Jüri Steel, 'Who's gonna put out the fire? '. A beautiful brutal metaphor, à la last turns out the fire. There has been talk of a mass exodus of doctors. There are, for example, signals that the University of Tartu Hospital is in great trouble in distributing the burden of doctors. Emigration, which has really picked up, including at the level of top specialists, is a double-edged sword: one way we lose the best heads, the other being that we may experience great immigration, pressure from strangers. Both the Minister of Social Affairs and you have so far been generally carefree in this regard and said that this is a self-regulatory process. I think something should be done. Does the government have any plans to regulate the exodus of doctors, to reduce its mass?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U62	Emigration has always been a very emotional issue. But we must admit that we do not know exactly what the exodus is. I therefore call on all people living in Estonia to participate in the census. After the census, we know exactly how many of us live here in Estonia and whether the exodus is large or not so great. In particular, we all need to understand that freedom of movement is not a punishment or an accident of any kind. I do not know that the Swedes would be very unhappy because there are 14 million in the world and that only 7.5 million live in Sweden. There are opportunities for one small nation to find applications in the world's top laboratories, in top hospitals of great value. I don't think any of us want to go back to a time where we had a lot of freedoms declarively, but in practice, no freedom could be realized. I read an article about the University of Tartu Hospital in Postimees and later read the objection of Urmas Sigur, Chairman of the Management Board of the Clinic. I understand that a sum of money has left the clinic less people have come to work there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U63	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U64	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd like to activate the Secretary of Defense. Minister, much has been said here today about the drafts, and that is what my question is about. Two crucial draft laws are moving on national defence: the Defence League Act and the Defence Forces Service Act. Can I have a few comments on when the bill will be here? They've been on their way for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U65	First of all, I dare assure Mr Raidma that I am still very active. But thank you for the question and I am really happy to answer it. These drafts are both in the government coordination circle. At the next session of the Government's Cabinet, we hope to put a point on the remaining questions, which are up in the Defence Forces Service Act, in the next session of the Government, it may be possible to accept it and send it to the Riigikogu. I really hope that this will happen, and we can solve these last loose ends. The draft law of the Defence League is practically the same. But we do have good practice in the way in which we adopt laws, the work is done very thoroughly and with proper coordination. We are now discussing the final details with the Minister of Justice, who is fortunate to be with me now and can confirm that we are quite close to the end of the draft law on the Defence Union and will be able to send it here soon, I hope, to you. We've been seriously discussing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U66	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U67	Thank you. I, too, have a question for Secretary of Defense Lar so he doesn't get very bored. I'd pick up where Mati Raidma ended up. You are a well-known reformer, both at home and abroad, and at the same time the Estonian state here is preparing major reforms in the public service and in the abolition of special pensions. What are the reforms or changes in specific matters in the field of military service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U68	No denying, that is certainly one question that has been very high in our discussions. Nor will it deny that we have had some differences of opinion on this issue, but we have discussed them and resolved them in my opinion in the best spirit of cooperation. The exact solution that will be reached will depend on the last-minute meetings we have both in the office and among ourselves, but these drafts will reach, I am quite convinced, in the next few weeks, here in front of you. In general, I firmly believe that there is no point in us discussing it with each other in an endless way in the government, because decisions are made by the parliament in the Republic of Estonia. And in the end, the disputed questions will all come before you. This is the way the Constitution provides for in the Republic of Estonia, and it is right and good. Certainly both the drafts that are before the debate are not an easy one. They are very large, they are right to change a number of things, and that is why they need to be discussed very thoroughly here, bringing out all the arguments and then deciding what is the right solution. Infinitely sending letters between ministries on this subject does not make sense. These drafts really do get in front of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U69	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U70	Thank you. I would activate the already active Minister of Defense. Mr. Secretary of Defense! There is some anxiety in the Estonian public, perhaps one could say that justified anxiety due to the prospect that the United States will significantly reduce its involvement in defending Europe. Could this fact result in any significant changes in Estonia's defence concepts or in the general set-up on this most important matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U71	I think this is a very important issue. I really thank you for all the questions that have been asked me spontaneously here, allowing me to take the floor. Surely everything that is changing in the United States' defence policy is something that we must monitor and analyse very closely. At the same time, it is positive that Estonia is very strongly involved in these changes. We've been kept informed. We've been informed. The negotiations that have now been held are only at the beginning. How can the decisions made by America be met with real content that also guarantees our security? The most important thing for us is certainly that the United States does not really pull itself out of Europe. Reduction is reduction. In the case of reduction, if this is done, it is crucial to bear in mind that the deterrent policy does not weaken a single gram. As Minister of Defence, I dare confirm that this is certainly the means to do this, and that is what we need to negotiate with the United States. As the process so far has shown, we have a very good partnership with the US. This job's going really fast. We do not need any fundamental change in what we have done. We simply need to continue to do what we have done very well and properly. I think that the decision taken in Estonia to bring our defence spending to 2% of GDP is a very good basis for doing so. So we don't need a revolution. We are on the right track, and we are going along it seriously and properly together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U72	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U73	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, will continue to question a good school brother. Oh surprise, we are probably on the same page because Paul-Eerik Rummo asked my question, but then I will continue with the next stage of the so-called coalition briefing, which concerns our NATO shield and also that we are secured by NATO air force. It is now known that if the Germans are to protect us, they will do so, not with four destroyers, but even with six destroyers. Allegedly, the reason is simply that these are relatively old models whose flying hour is not so expensive. But Germany and many other countries are gradually switching to the Eurofighters, the superfashionable fighters, whose flight hour is many times more expensive than the fighters. Can it be assumed that the number of aircraft will decrease and that our air security activity will suffer as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U74	Your questions, honourable members of the well-informed Riigikogu, will begin to approach the fact that the hearing will soon have to be declared secret. But I'm still trying to answer. First of all, briefly: no, our air security activity must not be reduced in any way. If the countries concerned want to fly more expensive aircraft and ultimately pay more for it, it is entirely their freedom. But this must not undermine the quality of our air security. The fact that I fly a more expensive plane and therefore I fly less is certainly no solution. Estonia clearly has its own positions here and we have negotiated them with our allies. Let's just say the negotiations aren't over for now. We need a decision to support this same air security programme at the NATO Chicago Summit. We have a number of authorities working in a very coordinated manner to do this, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and also the Prime Minister in person, and we will continue to do so if we are to expect an imminent visit from the NATO Secretary-General. But in general, there is a very constructive and reasonable spirit in these discussions, at least so far this has been the case, and I hope that we will get the decision that we want and need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U75	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U76	Thank you, Madam President. I will also continue with questions for the Minister of Defence. We have been discussing the problem of a lack of personnel in the Defence Forces and the Defence League. Do you think that the new draft laws will arrive in the Riigikogu soon, and the Defence Forces Service Act and the Defence League Act will provide solutions to this problem and, if so, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U77	Thank you, that is also a very important question. I think there's a certain level of relief. The problem of human resources in the Defence Forces is quite a multifaceted one. This concerns both the military's own human resources policy and its potential problems as well as the different issues arising from the law. The third, like the most obvious and visible problem, is financial resources. In fact, this latter is not at all the most important problem, it is very important, but these others are also. Look at the other issues arising from the legislation, indeed the new version of the Defence Service Act will help solve and organise things in such a way that everyone is better, as they say. As far as military salaries are concerned, this is a problem, as I have already admitted from this remote control. But I dare to confirm that we are all seriously dealing with this problem together and that the public will probably see these solutions in the coming year. This is already due to the actions of the Defence Forces themselves, our joint ventures and next year's draft state budget when it comes to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U78	Please, Mr Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U79	Thank you, Mr President. My question is also for the Secretary of Defense. During the budgetary procedure in the Riigikogu, one of your predecessors, Sven Mikser, in his position as Minister of Defence, proposed a reduction in defence costs. How do you feel about this idea? What risks could there be if Estonia, for example, had started to reduce defence costs on the proposal of the social democrats this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U80	You know, I'm not gonna hide that when I heard that proposal, I was really surprised. We have the NATO association, we have the chairman of the NATO association, who, as far as I know, has been very well informed about all matters relating to defence. At first, I thought it was a typographical error, and it was such a surprising proposal for me. Now I know it wasn't a typing error, and now, frankly, I don't get it at all. The withdrawal of this decision would still have been a total mistake for Estonia. First of all, to make this promise clear, it is well known to everyone, because it is also one of the points of the current government coalition agreement, and then to finally announce that no, we were still making fun of such a country not going too far. I very much hope that in the future two different things - Estonian security and the political fight - will be kept separate. In other matters, I think the Riigikogu has done so very well. As Minister for Defence, I am extremely proud and glad that, thanks to the good cooperation with the National Defence Committee, in general, all even relatively complex issues, which have sometimes caused tension in this Chamber, have been resolved in full agreement. This is, in my opinion, the way in which defence policy must be carried out. We'd better discuss it further, we'll discuss it further, but we'll come to a consensus. I am very grateful to the National Defence Committee for its attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U81	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U82	Thank you, Madam President. I also have a question for the Minister of Defence. First of all, I would point out that Sven Mikser was not talking about reducing defence costs, but that defence costs could increase, but not to the extent that the coalition provided. But my question is completely different. At the moment, the Riigikogu is discussing a bill concerning the organisation of the pensions of rescuers. The coalition has said no to support it, justifying that in 2012 the reform of preferential and special pensions will also reach us here in the Riigikogu. We know that the previous Minister of Defence was very radical in defending the pensions of the Defence Forces, and that is where my question is. What is your position on this issue, and what developments have recently taken place in the negotiations on the pensions of members of the Defence Forces and special pensions in other areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U83	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U84	I too am very loyal to everything concerning the social guarantees of the Defence Forces. I think we are quite united in this regard with the previous Minister of Defence. These negotiations are ongoing, and it is clear that under no circumstances does the Defence Forces want to see their pensions in a different order than pensions in another profession when we talk about it specifically. Indeed, as other areas are said, it is best to discuss all these matters in the context of this very soon - acceptable law on public service. And I think we're going to be able to do it quite nicely. We do not at least need to start creating some kind of comprehensive special system, and if something is done, it will be done by agreement and cooperation, based on the whole context. So let us wait a little while longer, but we will probably see this debate over the next few months. It won't be long here, if that's what you say. This package as a whole, which comes before the Riigikogu, is very important. The government has promised to work hard, and we are working hard. And the Riigikogu has been a good partner to whom we have been preparing questions, and they have created quite substantive and fundamental discussions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U85	Thank you. I will continue with the question to Mart Laar because he is already having a good run. Gender discrimination is undoubtedly a very important problem. I have a question specifically about the new law on military service. Is the new law also gender neutral, especially when it comes to entering the service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U86	New law? It is not the custom of this government to deal with any quotas, but we are dealing with equality in a positive solution. Yes, the new Defence Service Act defines the grounds for serving women in the Defence Forces. At least in the project it is within which law is adopted exactly, that is decided by the Riigikogu. I must admit that this is not an issue that has caused debate in the government. But the National Defence Commission, of course, visited the Defence Forces. Since Marianne Mikko took a very active part in this visit to the Commission with fundamental proposals and made numerous comments to us, I would say that we are well informed about gender issues in the Ministry of Defence. By the way, more women than men are employed by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U87	There are no further questions for the Secretary of Defense. Thank you very much. Looks like we had more of a coalition briefing today. Sometimes that's what you need. But no more questions, I'm finishing Question Time. Thank you, good questioners, for asking questions. Thank you very much, good respondents, for your answer. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U88	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the first Wednesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U89	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the eleven members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to address the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. This inquiry concerns the contracts of RMK with NGO Forest Friends. We recently read in Eesti Päevaleht that Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, has transferred 46000 euros of state money to NGO Forest Friends, of which he is a member. We have a question for the Minister whether the anti-corruption law has been observed here and whether all taxes have been paid. We expect the Minister to answer four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U90	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Buildings Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Economic Commission; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities and Amending the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Maritime Safety Act, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, International Sanctions Act and Amendment of the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Monetary Commission; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Act on Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, initiated on 9 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the R &amp; D Organisation Act, Study Grants and Study Loan Act and the University Act, initiated on 10 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do the presence check! 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U91	Let's start work on today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of Jaan Apple Tree, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U92	President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs on 12 December last year. Ten amendments were received by the deadline. They were introduced and commented by the representative of the initiator, Eve-Ly Kübard, adviser to the Department of Customs and Excise Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The Commission unanimously considered that the amendments were necessary and would improve the draft. In essence, the Commission wished to amend the second sentence of § 9 (4) of the Customs Act contained in subsection 1 (1) of the draft. This is the result of the Supreme Court ruling, which says that according to the current Customs Act, the use of a scanning device must be considered as a screening of goods and should therefore be carried out in the presence of the holder of the goods. During the discussion on sending the draft to first reading in the committee, the solution proposed in the bill raised questions in the light of the position of the Supreme Court, which led to the legal opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. According to this opinion, the solution proposed is correct in the light of the Supreme Court's judgment, but it is recommended that consideration be given to whether to include the fact in the text of subsection 9 (4) of the Customs Act that the screening to obtain the information necessary to assess the risk does not involve the opening of goods, means of transport, baggage or mail. For the sake of clarity, and having regard to the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department, this paragraph is specified as follows: 'If, during the screening process, the packaging, means of transport, passenger luggage and postal consignment are not opened, the screening referred to in subsections 39 to 41 and 43 of this Act shall not be considered as screening. ' With regard to the other nine proposals, there were linguistic clarifications. The name of the technical supervision inspection was changed as it was known to have been designated as the Technical Surveillance Authority four years ago. What else is there to mark? The tenth proposal clarifies the entry into force clause. If the date of entry into force of the first reading was indicated as 1 January 2012, the amendment shall provide for the date of entry into force of the amendment. a March 1st. It was decided to send the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government to the House of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 11 January 2012, to propose to the House to stop the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading. a on 18 January, the proposal being to adopt the draft as a law. All three decisions were unanimously approved by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U93	Thank you very much, Mr Jaan Apple Tree. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are ten amendments to the draft law. Let's start reviewing them. The first, second and third amendments have been tabled by the lead committee, which have been fully taken into account. The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh proposals are also from the lead committee, which have been fully taken into account. The eighth, ninth and tenth proposals are also from the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 84 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U94	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U95	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit to you a draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act. This draft is due to the need to transpose the relevant regulations of the European Parliament and the Council into Estonian law. They concern common rules on the conditions for the pursuit of the occupation of road transport operator, the international road haulage market and access to the international market for coach and bus services. As a result of amendments to the Act, some of the conditions for access to the occupation of transport operator laid down in the Road Transport Act are repealed. Given that Member States have the right to introduce national differences in terms of access to and pursuit of the occupation of transport operator under the Regulation, the draft also provides for some exceptions that take account of the Estonian road transport market and legislation, such as the introduction of non-authorised transport at the level of the Act, the duration of the authorisation procedure, the requirement to register the carrier's data in the commercial register or in another register. In addition, the amendments or additions to the Road Transport Act specify the procedures for implementing the requirements arising from the Regulation, such as the application and award of a driver attestation and a certificate for the carriage of passengers at their own expense in Chapter 5 of the Road Transport Act. Another important objective of the draft is to harmonise and simplify the system of authorisation for road transport. Where, under the law in force, a system of road transport licences is in place under which a Community licence for the international carriage of goods subject to a charge is granted and a certified copy of the Community licence for each vehicle and a national road transport licence for the carriage of goods subject to a charge and a national road transport vehicle card for each vehicle, the new rules will reduce the number of such licences to two. We do not need one permit, and we can therefore say that this bill will also reduce the administrative burden on businesses. Moreover, according to the amendments to the Road Transport Act, it is planned to waive, at its own expense, the issue of international road transport licences and vehicle cards, as the European Union regulations provide for the exemption of the organisation of international cargo and passenger transport at their own expense from the requirement to have a Community licence and any transfer licence. The amendments to the draft law liberalise the conditions for the use of vehicles used under a contract of use, whether for a fee or at its own expense, for the carriage of goods. If, under the current law, a certified copy of the Community licence can only be applied for on a motor vehicle registered in the Republic of Estonia, the draft amendments to the Act stipulate that a carrier established in Estonia holding a Community licence can also apply for a certified copy of the licence for motor vehicles registered in the Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area if these vehicles are used on the basis of a service contract. This amendment will, in particular, allow carriers carrying out international carriage of goods to increase exports of road transport services in transport operations between the European Union and the Member States of the European Economic Area. The amendments to the State Fees Act presented in parallel with the Road Transport Act specify the rates of state fees for new or amended licences. The amendments to the Traffic Act are also due to amendments to the Road Transport Act. They provide for the establishment of a traffic surveillance information system and for the extension of the scope of the law to the penalties imposed by the regulation for serious infringements. The government is asking for this bill to be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U96	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I call on the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Economic Commission on 12 December 2011. Minister Juhan Parts was present from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Priit Vene, Head of Transport and Traffic Department of the Ministry of Roads and Railways. The Minister explained that a large part of the content of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act stems from European Union directives and Council regulations. He first gave a very thorough overview of the substance of the law. A brief discussion took place in the Commission, where the members of the Commission asked specific questions and received answers to all of them. The Commission decided to send the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Fees Act and the Road Traffic Act to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 11 January 2012, i.e. today and to propose to the Assembly to finish the first reading of the bill 137. It was also proposed to set five working days by which amendments would be tabled. Since this is a transposition of the Directive, it is somewhat urgent and the deadline for submitting amendments is 18 January 2012 at 12 noon. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Palling. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 137 amendments by 18 January. 12:00 a.m. First reading of Bill 137 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U99	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Justice of the Speaker's Office, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U100	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I must begin with a declaration, which is specific to the Ministry of Justice, that this is, of course, a very good draft. I'll start my report on why it would be good if the bill before you could be passed as a law. After all, for some time in Estonia, we have been quite certain that the current law contains enough standards for human trafficking. In 2009, the Ministry of Justice analysed the issue more closely and concluded that not all existing formations cover all aspects of trafficking in human beings. For example, in the case of a minor victim, placing him or her in a situation where he or she is forced to work for someone else, to provide a service, to have his or her organ or tissue removed, or to perform other duties, as well as to keep him or her in such a situation, must be punishable even if there is no violence or fraud involved. The existing regulation does not provide for such a distinction. Human trafficking is also a priority area for the European Union. This is also demonstrated by the adoption on 5 April 2011 of a new instrument, Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims of trafficking in human beings, replacing the previous Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA. Estonia will have to transpose its obligations under the Directive into national law by 6 April 2013. The Directive defines the term trafficking in human beings in a broader sense than in the Framework Decision, and the Directive itself is based on the Convention on Trafficking in Human Beings. Many European countries have laid down the punitive nature of activities covered by trafficking in human beings in their penal code as separate offences or formations. Trafficking in human beings is a separate offence set out, for example, in Finland, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Norway, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, Austria and Switzerland. I believe that it is time to adopt the law in Estonia, too, and that is why I am standing before you right now. As you have probably already understood, the purpose of the draft before you is to supplement the regulation of the Penal Code with regard to trafficking in human beings by bringing the Penal Code into line with the requirements of international law. The composition of trafficking in human beings was first and foremost inspired by the directive adopted by the European Union this spring, to which I referred earlier. The following is a discussion of the main changes that are intended to be introduced into the legal order. The draft amends the existing form of slavery so that the concept of slavery contained therein can be distinguished from the concept of forced labour and other activities, which is not slavery but a practice like this in the sense of international law and human law. Prosecution is covered by the concept of slavery, as is the execution of a humiliating obligation or the coercion of a criminal offence. The child's sales will be linked to slavery. Secondly, the Code is complemented by three sections covering all types of internationally condemned trafficking crimes: trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, trafficking in human beings for the purpose of slavery (without the purpose of sexual exploitation) and trafficking in human beings for the purpose of organ removal. The various chapters of the Code so far incorporate into these sections the formations that sanction acts on the periphery of trafficking in human beings, such as aiding prostitution, tilting the minor into prostitution, illegal donation. Thus, the concept of trafficking in human beings contained in the draft is wider than that of the international term and makes it possible to better protect those at risk. One important change in the new form of human trafficking is the abolition of the phrase 'unto my own will' contained in the existing form of slavery. This means that the victim's consent does not relieve the perpetrator of his liability and it is no longer necessary to prove that the victim did not agree to commit the crime. Right now, this could be an obstacle to prosecution. For example, in cases where a husband forces his partner into prostitution, but also when the victims are allowed to sign large contracts in advance, according to which they would agree with the future. Before I finish, I would certainly like to thank the NGO Eluline, the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations and the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows, who all helped us develop this regulation and provided considerable help. Once again, thank you to them! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office also contributed. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U101	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Mr Andres Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U102	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Justice! I, too, will say before I come to the presentation of the Commission's work that this is a really good draft, a good initiative. I am particularly pleased that the current coalition is thus fulfilling a programmed election commitment from our party. I hope this bill will not be withdrawn at the last minute. On Monday 12 December 2011, a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was held, chaired by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The meeting started at 11 a.m. and ended at 12:15 p.m. All members of the Commission took part. I'm lying, not everyone's part of it! Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Siim Kabrits, Kalle Laane, Marko Pomerants, Valdo Randpere and Peeter Võsa took part and Neeme the Great was absent. Mr Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, and Mr Tanel Kalmet, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure, were invited to present the draft law amending the Penal Code and related laws. Members of the Commission were briefed on the content of the draft 140, which is a draft of human trafficking, as we call it informally. The Commission took a very positive view of this draft. There was a small debate on whether the current Penal Code would not already cover the formations that we want to cover by Bill 140. It has been concluded that it is not fully covered and that our legal area needs to be brought into line with the rest of the world and, in particular, with the European judicial area, where trafficking in human beings is a specific type of crime. This will certainly enhance our international cooperation. One problem was highlighted by Mr Randpere and supported by the members of the Commission. In particular, this form of punishment, such as the compulsory winding-up of a legal person, has been excluded. The Commission realised that this issue would be returned when a second reading would be prepared in the Commission. In fact, Bill 140 talks about punishing a legal person. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice explained that, in the near future, it is intended to exclude from the Penal Code a form of punishment such as the termination of a legal person, since it does not work in substance. To some extent, this can be accepted, as one legal entity is terminated and the other is moved forward. Rather, the request of the Minister of the Interior to the Court of Justice for the cessation of the activities of one or another legal person in connection with illegal activities will play a similar role. But as I said, it was decided that it would be returned when a second reading was prepared. It was also stated that it is necessary to ask the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the barrister's office, certainly also the University of Tartu, because we are very much amending the Estonian Penal Code. As a result of the decision-making process, the Commission reached the following positions: it was decided to refer the draft to the first reading of the 140 Riigikogu plenary session on Wednesday, today, 11 January 2012, with the proposal to close the first reading. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. The deadline for submitting amendments to the Committee on Legal Affairs was proposed to set two working days, i.e. set at 16 a.m. on Friday 13 January 2012. The rapporteur for the Commission was Mr Anvelt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U103	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. There are no questions. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 140 amendments. 1 January 2010 at 4 p.m. First reading of bill 140 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U104	The first reading of the draft Act approving Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance of the speaker's desk, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods ensures the smoothness of border traffic and thereby facilitates international trade. Many of its provisions have already been met by Estonia, such as visa facilitation for professional drivers, priority of urgent consignments (such as live animals and perishable goods), roadworthiness tests for vehicles and minimum requirements for border crossing points. It is new to the Convention on the weighing of vehicles and the issue of weight certificates. In order to accelerate border crossings, it is necessary to avoid recurrent weighing of vehicles at border crossings and to mutually recognise the international vehicle mass certificate. Supervision of the issue of an international vehicle mass certificate shall be exercised by the Technical Surveillance Authority. The International Vehicle Mass Certificate may be verified, if necessary, by the Police and Border Guard Board, the Road Administration and the Tax and Customs Board. The Estonian Association of International Car Carriers has a plan to develop a logistics centre in Luhamaa, where the appropriate weight will be located. There will also be mass certificates issued. As only one weigher is known to occur and one place is considered, authorisation and control of the weigher's activities are small-scale work, which does not entail significant resource costs for the authorities. The law could enter into force in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U106	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I would like to ask Jaan Apple Tree, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U107	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 12 December last year. Minister Ligi and Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, gave explanations on the draft. It was not a very long debate, but some questions were raised by the Members of the Commission. One of them was § 2 of the draft, i.e. the competent authorities. The question was whether the competent responsible authorities had to be registered in the law. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance replied that this was a mandatory prop and otherwise the regulation would remain incomplete. There are also precedents when competent authorities are included in the draft law. It asked how much investments in the required weights could cost the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers. On the spot, the Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance did not immediately give us this answer, but later he has said that this order of magnitude could be EUR 7000. As the Commission understood, there is no state budget expenditure in connection with the adoption of this draft as a law. The Commission's decisions were as follows: to send a draft law to the 138th plenary session for the first reading on 11 January 2012, propose that the plenary assembly close the first reading and propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 25 January 2012 at 6 p.m. All three decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Jaan Apple Tree. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 138 amendments on 25 January. 6 p.m. First reading of bill 138 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U109	The Council of the European Union Convention on Central Customs Clearance, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins the first reading of the draft ratification law on determining the national recovery costs to be retained when granting the budget of the European Union of traditional own resources. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law on the ratification of the Convention on Central Clearance. The Convention governs the rules on cooperation between customs authorities of the Contracting Parties, the exchange of information on centralised clearance, the determination of recovery costs and the reallocation procedure. Central clearance facilitates international trade and makes it possible to lodge a customs declaration in one case in another country. The trader can document in his office and the goods can move directly to the place where the customs checks are carried out. At least two Member States are involved in the sharing of collection costs for central clearance. First, the country where the customs declaration is lodged and, second, the country where the goods are presented. These Member States will continue to share equally between themselves 25% of the customs duty intended to cover the costs of collecting customs duties. Central clearance may also take place within a single Member State where the customs declaration and the goods are lodged with the different customs authorities of the same Member State. In such a case, 25% of the total amount payable in the form of customs duties shall remain with the Member State and the Convention shall not apply. The distribution of the costs of collecting customs duties between the Member States of the European Union concerns the receipt of funds in the national budget and the payment from the state budget to another Member State. The exact effects cannot be predicted as it is not known how much central clearance will be used by operators. In Estonia, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board makes payments in accordance with the Annual State Budget Act. The law could enter into force in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U111	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Urve Palo, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U112	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Have a good year! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on 12 December last year. The bill was presented to us by Marek Uusküla, Head of Customs and Excise Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. During the discussion, the members of the Commission submitted further questions and were explained by a representative of the Ministry. For example, it asked more specifically how the division of customs duties would continue to take place once the Convention was approved and entered into force. The Minister explained this a little earlier, but let me give you another example that we discussed in the Commission. For example, goods from Russia come to Estonia, but the owner of the goods is German. If the goods remain in Estonia, Estonia currently receives 25% of the customs duty. Once the convention is in place, the tax will be distributed: 50% of this 25% will remain in Estonia and 50% will go to Germany, the owner of the goods. If, however, the goods of the owner in Germany move from Russia through Estonia, for example, Latvia, i.e. the goods do not stay in Estonia, then it would start to be so that half of 25% would remain in Estonia and half would go to Germany. At the moment, if transit takes place through Estonia, there will be no customs duty in Estonia. Here's the main victory for us as a border country. The Commission examined what the legislative amendment would entail for customs agencies. It is now known that customs agencies are those who, in such cases, when goods coming from Russia, for example, move through Estonia to Latvia and are owned by Germany, are subject to customs duties. Today, this is often done by our local customs agencies. Indeed, in the future, customs agencies may lose this service or even lose it at all, as the Estonian customs authorities review the goods, send the information electronically to Germany and the customs duty is set there. Interest was expressed as to the amount of duty due from third countries. The Ministry sent this information after being specified. Last year, EUR 26.8 million of customs duties from third countries were planned for the state budget and EUR 27 million were received in 11 months, so this forecast was exceeded in a year. EUR 31,4 million is planned for this year. The Commission also asked for an estimate of the reduction in customs duties from third countries should the law enter into force. On this point, the representative of the Ministry said that it was very difficult, almost impossible to assess it, but it is very estimated that it could be a few per cent of the total amount of duty received, i.e. approximately EUR 0,6 million. But this is, once again, a very, very estimate. It also asked whether the necessary resources for the development of the pan-European central system (i.e. in particular IT solutions) were planned for the Ministry's 2012 budget. It was explained that the budget of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board did not have these funds planned, but according to the Ministry's representative, if the law enters into force, the basis for expenditure will only be established in 2013/2014 and then the amount will have to be planned in the budget if necessary. The Commission considered it necessary to send a letter of formal notice to the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry with information on the possibilities of submitting a declaration. The answer has not yet come from there. The Commission asked why Estonia did not wish to implement the Convention even before it came into force. The point is that the Convention will enter into force within 90 days after the last Member State has signed it, but unfortunately it is not known when it will happen. Estonia has the opportunity to address the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe with a declaration that Estonia would implement the Convention before its entry into force, but so far Estonia has not considered it necessary. The answer was that, at the moment, our companies have not expressed their wish that we should move at an early pace. Estonia does not have a central clearance permit and should first apply for it. It was asked whether any of the countries which have ratified the Convention had so far made this declaration. After clarification, the Ministry of Finance sent information that 19 Member States have ratified the Convention, 10 of whom have also made a declaration that they want to move forward at an accelerated pace. It was decided to send the Council of the European Union Convention on Central Customs Clearance, initiated by the Government of the Republic, concerning the determination of the national recovery costs to be retained when granting the budget of the European Union of traditional own resources for the first reading of the draft ratification law to the Riigikogu. a on 11 January. The decision was consensual. It was also decided to consensually propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 131 and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be five working days, i.e. 18 January 2012 at 12 noon. This decision was also consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U113	Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 131 amendments by 18 January. 12:00 a.m. First reading of Bill 131 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U114	The next item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Reimbursement of Claims Guaranteed by National VEB Foundation Certificates' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, to serve as a waitress again!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to you a draft decision on the reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates. The draft has been submitted as the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 22 October 2010 requires the Republic of Estonia to decide on the reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates. According to the resolution of the judgment, the State is not obliged to pay specific compensation for claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates, but only to decide on the reimbursement of claims. In 1992 the Russian Federation unilaterally frozen the accounts of Estonian banks in Vnešekonombank. The Court has established that the Republic of Estonia is not responsible for the negative consequences caused by the freezing of accounts by the Russian Federation in Vnešekonombank. The consequences were caused by the actions of the Russian Federation. On 20 January 1993 the Riigikogu adopted a decision on the accounts of Estonian banks frozen in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union in connection with the sanctions of the Russian Federation. The Riigikogu decided to form the National VEB Fund of the claims fund of the Republic of Estonia at Eesti Pank, which was frozen in Vnešekonombank. By decree No 11 of Eesti Pank of 21 January 1993, the statutes of the State VEB Fund and the rules and procedures for issuing the certificates of the State VEB Fund were approved by decree No 15 of Eesti Pank of 25 January 1993. The activities of the State VEB Foundation during the 1990s were in line with the content and meaning of the Riigikogu decision. The National VEB Fund and Eesti Pank were never based on the assumption that the certificate of the fund constitutes a financial claim against the Republic of Estonia. Point 1 of the draft law provides for the satisfaction of claims represented by certificates. The State VEB Fund failed to protect the rights of certificate holders for more than 11 years in such a way as to achieve the release of accounts by the VEB Bank. The requirements of the holders of certificates shall be met on completion of the activities of the current Foundation VEB (liquidation procedure). In accordance with the terms of the certificate, the certificate holder shall be entitled to a proportionate share of the foundation's assets. Point 1 of the draft act is based on the regulation of the satisfaction of the requirements set out in point 7 of the terms of the certificate, providing that the sole difference is that the satisfaction of the claims is to be effected by means of the proceeds of the sale of the assets of the Foundation's VEB. The VEB and the National VEB Foundation are the same person, since the registration of the State VEB Fund in the register of non-profit organisations and foundations did not create a new legal entity, but the former person was given the form of the foundation provided for in the current Act. In this way, the rights of certificate holders for the account of the foundation's assets shall be guaranteed in an equivalent manner to that which would have taken place in the account of the fund's assets. All valid certificates on the basis of which the requirements of the holders of certificates have not yet been met shall be reimbursed. The Foundation holds a claim for frozen accounts in Vnešekonombank (the transfer agreement between the State VEB Fund and the PEAP of 3 May 1996). So far, this requirement has not been tried or attempted to explain the exact market value of this claim because the purpose of the foundation was to obtain money from Vnešekonombank. The sale of the claim in the liquidation procedure explains the actual market value of the claim. Point 2 of the draft law repeals the decision setting up the National VEB Fund. The National VEB Foundation and Foundation VEB are the same person, but for reasons of legal clarity it is formally necessary to terminate the foundation formed by the decision of the Riigikogu. The National VEB Foundation was formed by a decision of the Riigikogu and the Foundation was assigned specific tasks. In order to terminate these tasks, the decision of the Riigikogu must be annulled. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U116	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U117	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that during all these long years, the State VEB Fund failed to satisfy claims against the VEB bank. At the moment, we are hoping to cover these requirements, or rather the certificates, through the sale of the requirements. Why didn't we think before that we could sell these claims? Perhaps they could have been sold earlier, perhaps there would have been a real buyer, and the companies would have recovered some of their assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U118	Thank you. It is difficult to assess what would have been the most sensible decision in 1993 or 1999 or in any intermediate year. The Riigikogu made its choice on the grounds that acting together is most likely to receive money from Russia. But this hope has not borne fruit, because Russia is committed to Estonia having to take part in the payment of loans from the Soviet Union and not being spoken to before. Of course, no Baltic state can rely on the assumption that we are the legal successor of the Soviet Union. We were occupied, annexed country, we were not independent in our judgment. In this sense, we cannot have this argument. It is the case that Russia made this decision. It has a deep political background and we can't get through here. But now the court has decided that this shit has to stop, figuratively speaking, and we're trying to estimate its market value. In itself, this market value has been valued in the privatisation process. These were state-owned companies and the money from state or parastate companies was still frozen. After privatisation, the market value can be said to have been taken into account to some extent. If anyone can make money on it, congratulations, but the opportunity to go and ask the National VEB Fund was always there. I hear you've been there, and I hear somebody's got money from the VEB bank when they turn directly. It was a certificate condition. But there's no exact data. Russia will not open this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U119	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U120	Thank you. Good minister! Can you tell me how much real liquid money the State VEB Fund could have right now? Is it more than one euro or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U121	Thank you. I don't know what to say. It is known that speculators have bought up these certificates. They're in the country too, hoping to make some money. One way to make money is to use expensive lawyers and get richer once again with the help of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U122	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U123	Thank you, Madam President. The same judgment, which currently forces the state and the Riigikogu to find or determine a solution, also says that the state should not create a seeming solution. With this decision, when we say that the values of certificates are satisfied at the expense of the sale of the assets of the State VEB Fund, is there no apparent solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U124	In general, civil law is based on the fact that fair value is a market value, and we have to try it out. Once again, for me, there is also a very strong argument that, in the process of privatising companies, no one could expect these certificates to have a firm financial guarantee. This was the market price which turned out to be the price of privatisation, and this reflects to some extent from the beginning the certainty that the claim is not against the Republic of Estonia, the claim is against the Vnešekonombank. In my opinion, this is a pure scheme developed by the Riigikogu from the beginning. Whether it was the most ingenious from the start, you can argue about it. However, in the case of such a political sanction, where companies with the status of Estonian state enterprise (in the sense that there were also cooperative companies) were considered to belong to the Estonian state and, for clear political reasons, this money was frozen, wanting to raise the question of the legitimacy of the Soviet Union, we could not afford it as a state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U125	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U126	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 130 of the Riigikogu's decision "Reimbursement of Claims Guaranteed by National VEB Foundation Certificates" initiated by the Government of the Republic has probably been the biggest public interest in the recent drafts dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but we are not a secret organisation of any kind. I'm going to repeat two dates here. This is indeed a topic that has been up for 20 years. This Friday, 13 January, marks the 20th anniversary of the introduction of the Presidium Regulation 2172/1 of the Supreme Council of the Russian Federation, which frozen the correspondent accounts of the Government of foreign operations of Eesti Pank and the Baltic Ühispank in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union for an indefinite period. The second date is 20 January 1993 when the Riigikogu adopted a decision on the accounts of Estonian banks frozen in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union. The result of this decision is one of the centre and subject of our debate today. In the intervening twenty years, the VEB saga has been a very varied sequence of events. There's a book written about it, and I hear there's gonna be a follow-up. With regard to the State VEB Fund, there are different expectations towards the Riigikogu, from the establishment of the Truth Committee and the assessment of what has happened until the expectation of full compensation of the (current) amounts in the individual accounts within the framework of this Decision. Although this is perhaps an emotional issue, I call on you to follow up on the draft before us in the work to be undertaken. As the Minister mentioned, the draft was motivated by the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 22 October 2010, which partially satisfied the complaints of Akke AS, AS Tartu Meat Combinate, AS A.O.Imbi, AS Saare Kalur and AS Pärnu Kalur Holding to oblige the Republic of Estonia to grant compensation for claims compensated by the certificates of the State VEB Fund. According to the decision, the Republic of Estonia had to decide, within nine months, by the end of October 2011, on the requirements guaranteed by certificates. In the meantime, the plaintiffs have also reached the administrative court to have the Republic of Estonia fined, as the judgment has not been enforced within nine months, but it is not the subject of today's debate, here we are to comply with the judgments. Paragraph 3 of the aforementioned resolution is what we need to focus on. It provides for the partial settlement of complaints and obliges the Republic of Estonia to decide within the nine months already mentioned on the question of the reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates. Now, a little bit of the Circuit Court's reasoning. The complainant's claim is based on the lack of action of the Republic of Estonia in defending the rights of complainants through the State VEB Fund, which has led to no real compensation for the complainants for a long time. It does not matter whether the complainants are the original owners of the certificates or whether they have acquired them at a later date. The Circuit Court has based itself on the assumption that certificates are worthless, as the thief is only frozen funds and freezing requires a political decision, which in Estonia's view means participating in the cancellation of the foreign debt of the Soviet Union. The Court considers that, where a State is obliged to make compensation, this should be the result of legislation. The decision of the Riigikogu of 20 January 1993 does not show such an obligation. The district court therefore considers that there is at present no specific legal basis on which the court can satisfy the complaint. However, the Court has also held that, by intervening with public-law measures in private relations, the State assumes responsibility for the proportionality and effectiveness of the abovementioned measures and that the State is not relieved of liability solely because it has set up a State VEB Fund which is known to be ineffective in bringing claims against that fund. In view of all of these circumstances, the district court reached a decision, the content of which is that the State must act, and has admitted that it is not possible to grant the whole of the appeal because the instrument of compensation for the certificates and the amount of compensation is the decision of the respondent. That is the precept that we, as a country, have to decide on the requirements guaranteed by certificates. This sentence has been interpreted by Professor Kalle Merusk of the University of Tartu at the request of Attorney General Indrek Leppik. Leppik asked whether the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 22 October 2010 in this administrative case constituted an obligation on the Republic of Estonia to genuinely compensate claims guaranteed by the certificates of the State VEB Fund. Professor Merusk interpreted that the Tallinn Circuit Court's decision on this matter must be taken as a direct commitment by the Republic of Estonia to establish effective arrangements and procedures and to determine the actual and fair reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates. The Government of the Republic has submitted a bill 130 to us. It consists of two points. The first point provides to compensate the holders of certificates issued pursuant to the decision of the Riigikogu of 20 January 1993 for the claims guaranteed by certificates for the proceeds of the sale of assets sold during the liquidation of the VEB Foundation. Secondly, the draft provides for the annulment of the decision of the Riigikogu of 20 January 1993. The register has 118 certificate holders and total claims amount to EUR 15085239 (at the daily rate of 25 January 1993). When VEB was liquidated, 19 persons reported their claims, amounting to EUR 11,3 million. I think all this is important in order to understand and understand our decision-making process. From the discussion of yourself. The Commission has discussed the draft on two occasions. First of all, on 14 November 2011, we invited Tiit Rebase, adviser to the Legal and Administrative Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Silvi Uljas, lawyer of the same department, as well as the head of the Foundation VEB, currently the liquidator Rein Järvelille and Silver Särät, adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu. We continued this debate on 5 December, where the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, as well as the aforementioned officials of the Ministry of Finance, the attorney-at-law of the new names Indrek Leppik, was present as a representative of the holders of certificates and the head of the legal department of Eesti Pank Kadi Kapral, who is also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation VEB. The questions raised during the debate concerned the adequacy of the decision and, of course, the attempt to focus on history. I will, according to the draft, suspend the implementation of the planned 1993 decision so far. These answers come from Rein Järveille, the liquidator of the VEB Foundation. As regards the first point of the decision, which provides for the establishment of a national fund, it is, as you know, done. As regards point 2 of the Decision, the concentration of the claims of the Bank of North Estonia and UBB in the State VEB Fund, this is partially fulfilled. According to the 130 explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the agreement between the State VEB Fund and the PEAP was concluded on 3 May 1996. At the same time, the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union does not recognise the requirement of the VEB Foundation. The banks have received real money and the state has bought out the bonds. The third point concerns the issue of certificates. Certificates were issued in the form of a register entry. That doesn't mean there's a package of certificates somewhere. The fourth point relates to the fact that the National VEB Fund certificates should compensate for the claims of PEAP and UBB customers against these banks. Here it can be said that the creditors' consent is not granted, one-sided certificates have been issued. Point 5: The main task is to find solutions to settle claims against frozen accounts. As you know, that is why we are here, that this point has not been met. In the sixth point, Eesti Pank is appointed as the manager of the State VEB Fund. It was necessary to convene a general meeting of creditors to elect the Board of Directors of the Fund. In the meantime, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and its general meeting have not taken place. The accounts were handled by the Bank of Northern Estonia as well as after SEB and the documentation was brought to the foundation when Rein Järveill took office. There are about 800 of these entries. The seventh paragraph of this decision, which we are about to annul, obliged the government, where possible, to buy certificates. It's part of it. Now, if you ask if anyone has received money in the meantime, the Minister of Finance also indicated that the money had been received by Ukrainian residents and, in the mid-1990s, by some Russian residents, which looked as if their funds had been moved from the Russian Foreign Economic Bank to another Russian bank. On 5 December, as I said, a new debate took place. The attorney-at-law of the certificate holders Leppik was present, who expressed his surprise at the draft decision and expressed his position as the representative of the certificate holders: the amount of the claim is the total amount of the claims on the certificates, the state is working with the VEB bank and first pay back the funds to the certificate holders, as the banking has been recapitalised by private funds. We asked for an opinion from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which said that much time had gone by and that they would support the swiftest possible adoption of the decision. We also asked for an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of whether this was a violation of the fundamental right to property. We were informed that it was concluded that this fundamental right was not infringed, because the holder of the National VEB Fund certificate cannot have a claim against the State. It was a violation of the state. Pursuant to § 14 of the Constitution (right to organisation and procedure), the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has concluded that, pursuant to § 14 of the Constitution, ensuring rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities, derived from this section the general right of the person to organisation and procedure and, if the State intervenes with public law measures in private relations, it assumes responsibility for the proportionality and effectiveness of the abovementioned measures. The procedure established by the Riigikogu's decision of 20 January 1993 has not realised the aforementioned right of certificate holders to the procedure and decision in 18 years; the state has not sought alternative solutions or procedures; it has completed the National VEB Fund. The Tallinn Circuit Court issued an injunction in its decision of October last year to the respondent, the Republic of Estonia, to decide on the reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the fund's certificates. That's what we're deciding right now. Now, the problems with this decision. Finally, it is, of course, necessary to ensure that the judgment is enforced in substance. Will the adoption of the draft decision ensure the enforcement of the judgment? If you read the judgment resolution, the answer is yes. Now, about giving real value to the certificate. Indeed, according to the 2010 annual report, the Foundation VEB has no assets and liabilities, but on an off-balance sheet basis Annex 4 reflects the off-balance-sheet accounting of frozen accounts and certificates issued by the National VEB Fund in the Foreign Economic Bank of the Soviet Union. The question now is whether this right of claim can be sold or not. In addition, it must be understood that the Russian Foreign Economic Bank has not recognised the National VEB Fund as a claim holder. There is one way to find out the answer. The Supervisory Board of the National VEB Fund, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank, must carry out this process. If this process results in a real price for certificates, the draft has served its purpose and can speak of both substantive and effective procedures. Igor Gräzin, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, announced that he would be present in the Committee on Legal Affairs only as an observer, that he would not take part in the discussion of the draft by speaking or asking questions, nor would he take part in the vote. That's what he's done. The committee listened to the views of the various parties, took note of the information and made the following decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft decision be taken at 130 first reading discussions in Riigikogu plenary on 11 January 2012 (this has been done), to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft 130 first reading be closed and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting 130 amendments to the Legal Committee be set at 25 January 2012 at 16:00. There were 6 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs in favour of all these decisions, with no votes against or abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U127	Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. Please, first question, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U128	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Would you help me understand the second point of this decision and its possible legal implications?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U129	Thank you for your question. We have two VEB funds figured out: one is the National VEB Fund, which was formed in 1993 by the decision that we want to cancel, and today the VEB Foundation has also been formed in connection with the organisation of the non-profit sector and the risk that it would otherwise have been liquidated. In order to avoid confusion, it is appropriate to liquidate the National VEB Fund so that there is no misconception that all the points that were counted there should be met in any way by the Foundation VEB. At the same time, when the Foundation VEB was set up, it was recognised that it was a successor in law, which concerned the whole of the liabilities. By this day, we know that the VEB Foundation is also in liquidation and the winding-up procedure should make it clear whether or not the demand I mentioned, i.e. the funds that are seized in the Russian Foreign Economic Bank, has some kind of real price. The court has held that there is no price. The criterion of truth is practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-11_U130	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Pomerants. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 130 amendments on 25 January. 4 p.m. First reading of bill 130 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 3.14 p.m.
