ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, presence check! Checking presence 42 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 59. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U2	Let's start with the first question today. Please, colleague Yana Toom! The question is for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Yesterday, we had a breakdown in the debate on the draft law on funeral allowance in this Chamber, which we will continue today after Question Time. We also discussed, among other things, the government's position, which was unsupportive of our draft. The reason was that the government felt that the funeral allowance had to be needs-based. Please tell me what you think this necessity means and what, for example, the model of the funeral allowance could be!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U4	Thank you. There are few countries in Europe where there is even a death grant. In most countries, insurance can be used to provide support to funeral organisers in case of death. The fact that the funeral allowance was once introduced in Estonia as an outright grant is a relatively large exception in the European context. It is true that there are countries like this in Europe. One of the countries closest to us is Lithuania, where there is an outright death grant. But once again, there are very few such countries in Europe. In most cases, it is not considered to be a natural, rational activity where money is collected from the taxpayer and then paid back to everyone equally the same sums of money collected. The Secretary-General of the OECD, who recently visited Estonia, also confirmed that Estonia must, to a greater extent, target social benefits, i.e. social benefits must be much more needs-based. For those who have a need and who do not need a specific type of support, this must be decided by the local authority. The payment of the funeral allowance is essentially a matter for the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U5	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! However, this is not the case in the sense that this obligation does not exist on the part of the local government, nor does the state. But here's my question. The draft law on funeral allowance was received on 16 May, more than five months have passed. What's the matter? Why has this issue of necessity not been discussed in government? This draft is simply being voted down on the pretext that there is no 'need-to-focus dimension'. Why hasn't the government been working on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U7	Thank you. The government has discussed this draft and has decided not to support it in its proposed form. One argument has already been mentioned: we cannot afford even grants to those who do not urgently need these subsidies in terms of their national revenues. It must be justified and justified when people live in poverty when they need it. The draft you have proposed would require additional resources of EUR 3.5 million, and this is a very large amount for the state budget. The state budget makes effective use of taxpayers' money and, as I said once before, the repayment of any part of the tax they pay is not rational, that is not what the state should do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U8	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U9	Thank you, Madam President. The media actually reflected this subject very widely. I just went through those old articles yesterday before the hearing. Among other things, I noticed a small TV3 news clip that said that there were dozens of ash urns on the shelf in one crematorium, which the relatives could not buy out, and that the interest was higher than the fee itself. As Prime Minister, can you give a good recommendation to people who are unable to buy out these urns because they are unable to pay for this service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U10	Thank you. If people really cannot pay for the service they have ordered themselves and it is a funeral service, then the local government must help such people. The State has assumed to cover the costs of burying people who have no relatives or whose identity has not been identified. It's the responsibility of the state. Local authorities must help those who cannot manage on their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U11	As the issue is important, I promise you four issues that have been registered on the ground. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U12	Thank you. First of all, the good Prime Minister, that somehow sounded funny when you said that the person himself has ordered this service. You don't order death, you have to bury a person. But I have a question for you. I have noticed that people in Estonia are a burden to your government. In order to reduce this burden, perhaps such a proposal is appropriate. Even after a person's death, the local government cannot tell whether his or her relatives are poor or not. Perhaps the government would make such a proposal and the Riigikogu would confirm that any person who wishes to write a statement before leaving for eternity: 'Please, Prime Minister, give me a funeral allowance if I should leave! " Tell me your judgment! What do you think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U13	I've always admired your sense of humor, but this time I'm surprised you can even joke with death. It's not very appropriate. I never claimed that the dead themselves ordered their cremation. Those who have ordered the cremation are still living people. Living people know whether they can pay for this service or not. If they are unable to pay for this service, you must contact the local government and the local government must help such people. If there are no relatives, relatives or persons identified, the costs of burying such persons shall be borne by the State from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U14	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The funeral allowance was introduced as public support in 2000 following Estonia's accession to the Council of Europe's Social Security Code. According to the principles of the Council of Europe's Social Security Code and the European Union, it is considered to be one type of social security. I want to correct one of the inconsistencies in your response. If the local government burys unfamiliar people, unfortunately, the state does not cover all the costs. He has covered these expenses at the same rate as the funeral allowance, and in fact the municipalities have added to it because they were unable to organise a funeral with 3000 kroons during the period of the crown, and now they are unable to organise a funeral with 190 euros. But my question is this: is the coalition planning to come up with a draft, i.e. a proposal to create needs-based funeral support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U16	Thank you. Certainly, the government does not intend to come up with an outright draft of a death grant. Reasons have already been given. The European Commission, the OECD and other honourable institutions have repeatedly drawn the attention of the Estonian Government to the fact that our social benefits are only universal subsidies and Estonia is exceptional in the European Union precisely because we practically do not have need-based subsidies. During the discussion of the draft referred to by the author, there have also been statements from this Chamber as if the funeral allowance had been provided for in the European Social Charter. Today you referred to another document and this document is a better basis than the Social Charter. I have read the Social Charter several times, from the beginning to the end, when making such statements, but I have not been able to find the Social Charter. I'd really appreciate it if Eiki Nestor found this section of funeral allowance in the Social Charter. However, the annex to the Social Security Code has mentioned funeral allowance, but let it be said that Estonia has not ratified the annexes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U17	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U18	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! It's quite interesting to listen to you. But it is also interesting how Europe, for example, was able to give us a precept in its own time that our funeral grants are too small. This issue was discussed in this Chamber and, by the way, these grants were also raised. I still have those papers. So we have indeed joined the European Social Charter and the Social Security Code and they are binding on us. But I ask, do you know exactly how expensive the funeral is? We're not talking about the poor who can't pay for it anyway. Do you think, for example, the middle class people, who may have this death unexpectedly, will be able to pay for it? And why can't the state be a little supportive at this difficult moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U19	Thank you. Good questioner! I have to turn again to the trivialities. Both poorer people and middle class are those who shape the state budget with their payments. The state doesn't do any miracles. The state doesn't take money out of a hat. The state in the Riigikogu and in the person of the government can reallocate what the taxpayer has paid to the Treasury. As far as I am aware, Estonia has never been accused of having too little support for funerals in Estonia as universal support. Then complaints should be made to most countries of the European Union where there is no funeral allowance in the form of universal support at all. According to my memory, I may not be referring to the exact euro to say that I believe that the insurance-based funeral allowance in Spain is 48 euros. It is smaller than it is set as a rate in Estonia. I can say that, as far as I know, funeral grants are paid in certain cases in most European countries. For example, if the insured person has died in an accident at work, if the deceased or the deceased has fulfilled certain preconditions, in some cases involving social security contributions within five years, including the payment of taxes for a certain period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U20	And the last question registered on the spot from my colleague, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Yesterday in this Chamber, when discussing the same issue of funeral support, Mr Rein Aidma said, and you have also repeatedly stressed this today, that this coming to the aid of people is a matter for local governments. However, in the years 2000-2009, the State considered that this was its responsibility. After 2009, he says that local authorities could now help, not the state anymore. Is this not another task imposed on local governments by the government, without contributing financial resources? Since I have 25 seconds to finish asking the question, I will repeat the question of Helmen Hunter. Will the Government of the Republic come up with a need-based death grant bill and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U22	Thank you. If and when, this has not been decided by the Government of the Republic right now. I reaffirm my opinion. According to my conviction, it is up to the local government to pay the needs-based support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U23	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U24	The next question is Mr Kalvi Hard to Minister for Culture Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U25	Thank you, President of the General Court! Hää ministerherr! Take the kyüdä kõrro keelh of righteousness, for 75,000 Estonians say the keel of an understanding kõlda kõrro. And my moaning is also easy. We're talking about the lawn and the woods, but the Võro has been told that the Ministry has a plan for the Võro Institute and a panda of the museum bread in one of the lockers. Is there any truth to this story?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U26	Thank you. The question was perfectly understandable. Yes, such an exchange of views has been held. This is certainly one of the possible development scenarios for improving the collection and study of both the material and the spiritual heritage of the historical Võrumaa. We currently have two state institutions operating side by side in the houses: the Võru Institute and the Võrumaa Museum. They both have their own charters. And as we note, certain subjects still fall between the two and are not dealt with by either. The Võru Institute has a Scientific Council that would like to focus much more on language issues only than today. This, however, does not coincide with the current Statute of the Võru Institute, which clearly states that the Võru Institute is also engaged in contributing to the collection of material cultural heritage and preserving the culture of the historical crown as a whole. How exactly will these discussions end, whether they end in the same way that the bread is put in one closet, I cannot say at the moment. But discussions are ongoing. So you can tell the vipers, even though we have repeatedly told them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U27	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U28	Thanks! That's a slice. What do I plan to do then, whether the future Väro culture of the wind-up institution will have its foundation or its public institution or the legal form of the wind-up institution will have its future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U29	Thanks for the question! I can't say for sure right now. There are two choices. Firstly, on the basis of two institutions, there will be a new foundation in which, in my view, local authorities would also participate, or there will be a single state institution. Secondly, there are two public bodies or one of them remains as a public institution and the other as a foundation. This is all the subject of future discussions. Solving this issue is by no means in the Ministry of Culture's work programme this year. Today, these discussions are more frequent on the ground, also due to the resignation of the director of the Võrumaa Museum, but in the first half of 2013 we would like to reach a final decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U30	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U31	Well, Minister Herr, you said to the end of the day that as long as the timeline was up, there would have been a wind on the tree of 2013, when it was clear. I have now received the answer to that question, but when the word was spoken, ask that the ultimate aim of the tuu, to cover the institution's coals, do I understand correctly that the end purpose of the tuu was the tuu, that they covered the body so that they could keep the coals in the right direction, and now the wing is the right one?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U32	Yeah, well, if it's gonna make sense, I'm sure it could be the goal. But the aim here is not only service-oriented, but it is also about preserving and preserving cultural heritage as a whole, which is not always accompanied by all kinds of everyday services. As I said in answer to your first question: there are now two public authorities that are both involved in the same thing, but inevitably some issues fall between the two, and that is not very sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U33	And now one of the questions registered on the spot from my colleague, Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U34	Thank you, Honourable President. Very honest, ministre! The wind that you keep your eye on the vulgar side from the rough side, it's still good. The Setos like the booze. But I have such a simple screaming, hoo, that the cover of the thing like the wish to be put together, that is, is there a menegi study or analysis, a sound of a voice in the mouth and an initiative that covered a different institution with one in order to say it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U35	I guess that's what we need to discuss. What's the rational way of acting? If you mean analysis, of course we'll analyze. After all, we are constantly analysing the activities of the two institutions and asking the Councils about this. If you think you should do a sociological survey or some fundamental analysis of the activities of two public institutions, I don't think so. In such a small country, we can do this perfectly at ministerial level. But I repeat once again: it is all a matter of rationality that the preservation and preservation of cultural heritage should not suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U36	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U37	The next question is from colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U38	Thank you. I understand what the main cause of the health care workers' strike is. It's like a scream from the medics, so you can't go on the same way. We have no strategy or vision for the future. Obviously, there is also a great deal of resentment from both you and the Prime Minister last week that our health is so effective that it is the best in Europe, and it is set as an example. Basically, this efficiency is empty as a lemon, and it comes at the expense of salaries, at the expense of medical personnel's workload, at the expense of patients. Patients are accepted for shorter periods, queues are prolonged, participation increases, etc. If we look closely, we have not valued health care. After all, we still have a lower percentage of GDP than in countries comparable to us, and this percentage has decreased. Where's the "key place" you're planning on money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U39	Thank you. Now I should ask the President of the Riigikogu about an hour to tell you what is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U40	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U41	Thank you. If you say there are no plans, I can't categorically agree with that. Take care of the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Hospitals, doctors, everyone knows what these plans are. If we start with the largest general document, the framework document, i.e. the population health development plan, which has been established until 2020, then all activities will be included in it. From there comes the development plan for the hospital network, the development plan for the care network, the development plan for primary health care. All plans have been agreed with the various parties. The question is whether and how much we have the ability to complete these plans over time or whether we want to bring this time forward. If you ask what to do in the current crisis situation, actually, look, we have lost 20% of our share in the latest figures. This is certainly one of the lowest figures in Europe. I agree that there is a high level of ownership in dental care and medicine. For ten years, however, there has also been no situation in Estonia in the case of medicinal products where for three years in a row, the participation of preferential prescription medicines would have gone under. It's a fact, so it's been, if you want to, take the statistics. If you look at the doctor's demands and suggestions, for example, the day before yesterday they suggested that county hospitals should stop guarding the weekends, i.e. county hospitals would have 24 hours of security from Monday to Friday at 4:00. It's a proposal the doctors have come up with. Similarly, the Hospital Association has sent a letter to the Minister to raise the daily bed and visit fee. The same question has been raised by family doctors. When we are talking about bringing extra money into health care, the government coalition has been talking about removing sickness and disability costs from health insurance, so that it provides opportunities. But ask me more, then we can talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U42	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U43	Thank you. You will receive a lower level of ownership by including health and prevention funds. Real, the right number is on Praxis's website and it's still 27% and beyond. But here's what I want to ask you. We have received a lot of interesting proposals and analyses from the OECD, the WHO, and Praxis. There are really good suggestions. The main concern is that our country itself is putting little more health care into place and only wants to deal with tax money. This is not the case in most countries, i.e. they put a pretty high percentage. We're not doing this. Why don't we think about this model? If you think we're going to increase our share and the bed pay again, and I don't know what else, our patient isn't gonna be able to pay for it in any way. I ask you again: why have you not taken these researches from international scientists into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U44	Thank you. When we talk about international research and you talk about ownership, the statistics on ownership are the same in all countries. If you start making distributions within the ownership, then, yes, as I said, in the case of medicines and dental care, this is higher, but the average statistical figure, which has already fallen below 20%, is calculated on the basis of the same methodology in all countries. So take international statistics in this respect and you will see that Estonia has a figure of just over 20% last year, this year's figure will be just under 20%. This certainly is not a big indicator. When you talk about international studies, a lot of the proposals that have come from there have gone to work. Let's start with the hospital network. The Hospital Network Development Plan really helped us to write. If you're talking about the state's additional contribution to health insurance, I'm sorry, but where does the state budget come from? Public budget money still comes from taxes. We simply have options and the taxes cover quite a number of areas from the state budget. We're gonna start counting them: emergency assistance, unemployment insurance, ambulance, residents. If we add up all these sums, we'll get a sum of millions, if not hundreds of millions. We'll put in more hospital investments. In the last seven years, the contribution has been in the order of EUR 250 million. If you distribute this EUR 250 million between seven years, you will see that even then a very large amount of investment has gone on every year. There are both European money and hospital co-financing. However, the co-financing of hospitals does not come from anywhere other than the taxpayer's pocket. Thus, in health insurance, we can talk about the redistribution of taxpayers' money, and in the course of this redistribution, the health insurance budget for next year will be bigger than it has ever been in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U45	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U46	Thank you. Financial choices depend on national priorities. The cost of our budget for next year is EUR 7.7 billion, so this is really a matter that you consider important. I wonder how this own contribution will continue to decrease if we have value added tax (VAT) on medicines, if there is more liability in the case of disability sheets than care treatment has become paid if dental care has lost so-called preventive money and the biggest cuts have been made in healthcare. Coming back to the strike, I'll ask you another question. The Prime Minister said last week that the strike was caused by the previous chairman of the health fund, Danilov. I can't ask the Prime Minister that right now. Is that what you think? You've been the chairman of the Health Insurance Board for years. Are you gonna be responsible for this now? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U47	I don't think it's gonna take us a gram to find the guilt. I'm gonna come back for a second with that own contribution. The calculation and definition of the holding is clearly and equally written everywhere. The reduction in the percentage of ownership can come from the fact that the state is contributing more to general development and that its health insurance costs have increased, while the person's own contribution has not increased significantly. We will charge the same bed-day fee of 1.60 euros, up to 10 days. If you are in hospital for more than 10 days, you will still not pay more than EUR 16 for the entire period of hospital stay. The fact is, however, that hospitals cannot even cover the food you receive during your stay. The price of the food that hospitals buy in during the procurement is between four and five euros, in some cases perhaps even above that. So if we're talking about the patient still being held with a bed payment and a visit fee, that's the way it is. And it has also come from the fact that these patient costs have not increased, but public expenditure on health care has increased. That's what the percentage difference is. Now that you're telling me if anyone's guilty, look, I'm telling you once again, finding the guilt isn't gonna get you out of this situation. If we look around society, a very large number of sectors would like to raise wages. If the negotiations were to take place on the day before yesterday, the requirement put forward by the Association of Physicians and the Professional Association of Health Care Professionals that undistributed profits should be put to maximum use would amount to approx. 25 million euros for the entire state budget. If you point the finger at who to take this 25 million out of common public revenue, then it is possible to make such a decision. I do not see places where we can now get EUR 25 million from somewhere else in the state budget, either from my colleague Lang or from my colleague Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U48	Now, please, the questions registered on the spot! Let's start with my colleague, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U49	Thank you. I understand that finding guilty or guilty is a relatively unpleasant thing to do, but in general, someone has to take responsibility for the situation. And my question is simple: who do you think is responsible for the situation that has arisen that has led the doctors to strike? Are these doctors themselves, are they hospitals, is this the Ministry of Social Affairs with the Minister, or is this the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U50	Thank you. I'd love to talk about the facts and the situation. When we talk about the demands on which the strike started, they were such that in specialist medical care the doctor's salary should rise by 50% in two years. Such taxpayer funds do not exist. When we talk about general medical care, certain groups had to raise their salaries by 100% in two years. This was the place where the negotiations, of course, broke apart. And if the workers have chosen a strike to express their mind, then the strike is their constitutional right, but it only concerns the outcome of the negotiations. There is no right to make political demands. When it comes to trying to change the system, let's be realistic. When talking about reducing the burden on the doctor's working time, the other side must also be told that the waiting time for the patient is going to be longer. Here the Health Insurance Board, together with all its representatives, including representatives of child protection and pensioners, has made it clear that queues cannot be extended. We were already forced to extend them. If we look back on the years of crisis, the very painful decisions made in health insurance have led to a reduced cost of health insurance of 100 million or more. However, if this decision had not been taken in the Health Insurance Board, we would be in a position where doctors' pay might have been reduced by 20%, because taxpayers' money was not paid into health insurance. I can continue in this dull statistical figure language, but it all points to one thing in health insurance, very painful decisions have been made, which means that, on average, medical doctors' wages have risen more than the Estonian taxpayer's average over the last five years. Consequently, health care has been more invested and the cost of human resources in healthcare is already 45%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U51	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! First of all, it is commendable that you, as a representative of the government, have gone to the negotiating table. Maybe a little late, but better late than never. You've been in a number of negotiations this week. I understand it may be difficult for you to answer my question because you are not a direct decision-maker. But what's your assessment of how long this medical strike can last? When will it end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U53	Thank you. Prognosis on coffee grounds or glass eggs is not a very productive activity. If we look at the factual situation, there will be 55 million extra money in healthcare next year. Within this 55 million, there are about 20 million so-called forced expenses, i.e. higher medical benefits, more money for incapacity benefits, etc. With EUR 35 million, we can make choices: either channel it into personnel costs, shortening queues or some other expenditure. Those are the limits. When we cross these borders, we must also say clearly in this Chamber, by changing the state budget from which we take something off the line. Like I said, where do we take away, culture on the line, education on the line, or protection on the line? As I said, these are the limits. 55 million extra money is a very large amount. I believe that it would actually be possible to reach reasonable agreements within these limits. If we look at the state of play of the negotiations, they started again 36 minutes ago, it is difficult because last night, at seven o'clock, representatives of the Medical Association and the Health Care Professionals Association sent their demands with specific percentages. I, now, at least from the point of view of these demands, cannot be convinced that so much extra money could be found by the taxpayer. So it's very difficult to predict how long the strike will last.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U54	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U55	Please ask the next question from my colleague, Helmen Hunter! The question is again for Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! I believe you are aware that the preferential sale and lending of aid instruments has stopped in a large number of counties as of August this year, and that rural governments are placed in a situation that does not allow them to carry out their statutory tasks due to a lack of state resources. However, the increase in the target group entitled to benefits and the uncontrolled rise in the prices of technical assistance instruments have created a situation where the rights of people with special needs are not met and long waiting lists put their daily lives at risk. It is particularly regrettable that this also concerns the situation of children, such as diapers, inco-tools and other aids. Do you think it will be possible to find more money in 2012 and reduce these long queues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U57	Thank you. I agree with you a hundred percent that the aid market needs to be repaired. These changes, which we have already made this year and which the questioner certainly knows very well, maybe the 'limit pricing logic' should give us the opportunity to provide aid to many more people than we can now. The first limit prices for certain mobility equipment, such as orthopaedic footwear, insoles and footrests, are available. This draft regulation, which concerns the price caps for inco products, is in the coordination circle. Returning to this year, yes, we have proposed an increase in the amount of aid from the additional budget. If the additional budget reaches the point where it will be approved, it will be possible to increase the amount of aid with the Ministry of Finance this year, in accordance with the original agreement. We also provided for the possibility of increasing the amount of funds available for aid instruments in the basic budget for next year in order to solve or mitigate the issue of order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U58	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your previous answer. Now, here's what I'm gonna ask you. In 2010 the Estonian Association of Hearers approached you and applied for a solution to the issue of compensation limits for hearing aids by 2011. The current threshold is EUR 288 for working age and EUR 225 for retirement age. There are no limit values for aids for people with any other type of disability. Do you think it is possible to end this discrimination against people with special needs? And what about this plan of work? This was very much expected as early as 2011, and now 2012 is coming to an end. When are you going to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U60	Thank you for your question. We deal with it all the time. It is true that this "reverse" change in hearing aids means additional resources in the same way. But, as I said, our primary objective should be that we agree on all the marginal prices. Once we have agreed on all the marginal prices, we can hope that additional resources will be generated in the aid budget and that the problem of hearing aids can also be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U61	Now, I would like to ask another point of clarification from my colleague, Mr Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The 2013 budget has been handed over to the Riigikogu for inspection. I didn't notice there was an increase in the amount of money to compensate for the technical equipment. I know that the House of People with Disabilities has requested an increase of 5%. What, then, will be the amount in 2013 that will enable people in many areas to solve the problems that have been in line for six months or a year now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U63	Thank you. Look at the growth there is. On-on! I'm doing a state budget statement right now. There is an increase of almost half a million euros. In any case, an increase is foreseen in order to reduce waiting times for aids. If I have to, I'll send you a copy of the line it's scheduled for. But I'm sure the growth is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U64	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U65	The next question is from Mr Viktor Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! This is about excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Alcohol and tobacco are apparently taxed throughout the civilized world, and the point is clear, if people voluntarily violate their health, then the costs to society arising from it should also be compensated. Can you explain in more detail which objectives are targeted at excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, and on which basis their current rates have been calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U67	Thank you. The money from excise duties on alcohol and tobacco will go to the state budget and the expenditure of the state budget will be covered, inter alia, by revenue from excise duties. Firstly, excise duties are, of course, determined on the basis of the European Union's minimum rates. In the case of tobacco, we have not yet reached the minimum rate. In the following two years, the excise duty on tobacco will increase by 6% and in 2014 we will achieve the minimum rate of excise duty on tobacco in the European Union for the same year. In the case of alcohol, Estonia's excise duties are higher than those of Europe. On a number of occasions, in the European Union, we have taxed our excise goods at higher excise rates than is the case in the European Union on average. The final price of Estonian alcohol is the tenth most expensive price in comparison with the 27 EU Member States. If you come back to your question, when determining excise duties, one of the important objectives is to reduce the consumption of products that are harmful to health through price. But these excise duties must be so reasonable that they do not encourage smuggling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U68	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! We got a lot of great numbers, but I'm still going to specify my last question. Are the rates of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco based solely on a European directive or on a clear mind to compensate for the losses caused to society by consumers of alcohol and tobacco? And have any calculations been made as to what these losses are and to what extent could they be compensated by the excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U70	Thank you. Common sense must certainly have come to the conclusion from my reply that the tolerance of the market is also taken into account when determining excise duties in Estonia. I mentioned that Estonian alcohol is the tenth most expensive alcohol in the European Union. We have taxed alcohol at a higher rate than the European Union average, but it is probably not possible to tax it twice as much, because then no one would buy Estonian excise goods, the whole market would go illegal and alcohol would be transported elsewhere. I am saying that excise collection in Estonia is quite efficient, quite prosperous and that the excise duty rates for our excise goods are quite optimal. Optimal in the sense that maximum compensation is made for damage to the health system caused by the consumption of goods harmful to their health, but the rates are not too high to eliminate all excise revenues. In principle, a dry law can be introduced and the tax revenue from the excise tax will not be paid to the Treasury at all. Only that experience in different parts of the world has shown that health is still being damaged, crime is increasing and public revenues are decreasing significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U71	I would like to ask you a final point from my colleague Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As you said, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco are also used to compensate for the damage caused by consumers of these substances to the health care system. How, then, will it be ensured that excise duties on alcohol and tobacco go precisely to compensate for the damage caused to their health care system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U73	Thank you. No, I have never said that, and no tax system should be so inflexible that one specific revenue is linked to one specific budget cost. Flexibility is already low in the Estonian state budget. I certainly do not consider it possible to link expenditure more to specific sources of budget revenue. If you are reassured by the claim that salaries are paid to teachers from excise revenue, then that is certainly true. And I think that we have both now agreed that excise duties will be used for a noble purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U74	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U75	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U76	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! You have said that the payment of sickness benefits from the budget of the unemployment fund would save the sickness fund EUR 40 to 50 million. Does your plan state that the social security contribution (13%) would remain unchanged? And how much would unemployment insurance be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U77	Thank you. I continue to believe that this is a sensible and good plan. Its background is very simple. If a person is excluded from the labour market, the benefits involved could be paid out from one place, regardless of whether they are forced to stay away from work because of, for example, health problems or redundancies. These benefits are not of such a special nature. If you look at history, you actually know why these sickness benefits were put into health insurance in their own time. Unfortunately, there was no other place to put them. As far as 13% is concerned, I do not see any need for us to change the share of social security contributions. After all, this is the assumption that we have said that EUR 40.50 million could be released from there by means of a reasonable plan to cover the cost of health insurance. As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, the chairman of the management board of the unemployment fund has already commented that there is no need at this time for us to start increasing the rate of unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U78	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U79	Thank you. Dear Minister, Currently, employees' health insurance is paid by the employer. The unemployment fund has two trust funds for benefits: one is the unemployment insurance trust fund and the other is the trust fund for redundancy and the insolvency of the employer. What kind of unemployment fund foundation would pay sickness benefits and would you like to take this money out of the pockets of Estonian workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U80	Thank you. All these details are currently being discussed in connection with the reform of the system of incapacity for work and the creation of disability insurance. I'm sure these details can be discussed more precisely in this Chamber, too, when these legislative changes come before you. But I would certainly not just address the subject you mentioned. Similarly, the issue of sickness insurance for members of the Riigikogu, disability benefit, as well as management and board members who do not currently pay unemployment insurance contributions, need to be resolved. However, if, for example, a member of the board or board remains on the sick list, he or she will receive sickness benefit. So there are certainly issues that need further discussion. That's what I'm open to. I don't see any reason why we can't discuss this together. But today, let's not set limits on what kind of foundation this payment of benefits comes from! Perhaps a new foundation needs to be created. This hall is the one who passes the laws. If there is a general understanding that benefits related to dismissal, regardless of whether exclusion is caused, for example, by illness or redundancy, are to be paid from one place and the person is to be contacted in one place, which reduces bureaucracy, then I think that is very reasonable. To continue with the previous question, it is worth recalling that unemployment insurance is not going to increase, but will fall from 4.2% to 3% next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U81	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U82	Thank you. Dear Minister, You mentioned a number of people who aren't in the unemployment fund on whom this tax doesn't go. But self-employed workers are not currently insured in terms of unemployment insurance. How are they gonna be? This plan of yours doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U83	No, this plan doesn't make any sense. I will say once again that there is a person's benefit in the event of absence from work. If he needs treatment, the Health Insurance Fund will cover all of his treatment. Compensation is a completely different matter. A person needs to be compensated for his absence from work. When he's laid off, there's a law to protect him. There are clearly your compensation rates. The insurance of self-employed persons is similar to the situation of management and supervisory board members. As I said in answering the previous question, this issue needs to be worked out in detail. There are different ways. One way is to make some kind of transfer from the sickness insurance fund to the unemployment fund to pay the disability benefits for these persons, because as an employer they pay the health insurance tax. There are other solutions, there are several options. These are all certainly to be discussed with experts in their field to further details. If it is already in the form of a draft system of disability insurance as a whole, including insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, at least according to our plans, it must be possible to receive the government's presentation by the end of the first quarter of next year, then we can also discuss the details of who does how much and where transfers are made or what will be the exact scheme of how a person receives his incapacity benefit. But I don't see any significant changes to this scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U84	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U85	We have come to the last question. This is a colleague from Priit Toobal to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. A while ago, the Government of the Republic made a decision to return the House of the Blackheads. The city of Tallinn then decided that it would start collecting signatures both in Tallinn city and more widely throughout Estonia. As of a few days ago, nearly 80,000 signatures had been collected; their collection continued quite intensively. As Minister of Culture, do you not have a plan to go back to the Government of the Republic and review this decision after a large number of signatures have been gathered?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U87	Thank you. First of all, of course, I am amazed at the Central Party and especially the City Government of Tallinn's ability to collect all kinds of signatures. I'm reminding you of some facts. The Blackhead Brotherhood is a legitimate subject under the Property Reform Act. The house they want back is entirely there and they have the right to apply for it. The non-refund of this house to the brotherhood should be considered if its return would not be in the public interest. The Blackhead Brotherhood has confirmed that it will contribute fully to the activities of Tallinn Philharmonic if the house is returned to them, even creating better conditions for the activities of Tallinn Philharmonic. If you think that creating these better conditions is not in the public interest, say so. I do not understand what should be the public interest in this case, which in such a situation should prevent the house from being returned to its rightful owner. How could the public interest be better protected by Tallinn City Government instead of the Blackhead Brotherhood? This is the dilemma that I think Estonian society is facing today. If you want to show the Blackhead Brotherhood as some kind of half-floor organization against whom signatures can be collected, I think you are also insulting your long-standing colleague Peter Tulviste, who is a member of the Blackhead Brotherhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U88	Please, Mr Toobal, your point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U89	Thank you. I fully agree with you that the public interest is the criterion that can be determined here. As I understand it, next week's Monday will begin the trial on this subject. It is the court that evaluates this in the public interest, as well as whether the decision of the Government of the Republic is legitimate or not. You referred to a member of the Blackhead Brotherhood, Peter Tulvis, and also to the fact that we consider this brotherhood to be some kind of underground organization. But we really don't know, at least the public doesn't know any members of the Blackhead Brotherhood except for Peter Tulvis. As a member of the Government of the Republic and Minister of Culture, do you have more knowledge of who is part of the Blackhead Brotherhood, or who can have the Blackhead house at their disposal or use?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U90	Thank you. There is, and there has been a lot of talk about it in the press. I'll come back to that public interest issue one more time. Linking Tallinn City Government to the public interest, putting an equal sign between the public interest and Tallinn City Government, i.e. equalising the public interest with the activities of the Centre Party, is, in my opinion, a madness of magnitude. I have a suggestion that it is absolutely necessary to take advantage of this moment when the medical strike ends and to visit a doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, please respond without emotion. Since our time is coming to an end, I will stop looking at this interesting issue. Many thanks to colleagues for asking questions and for answering questions from members of the government. Question time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U92	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. I call the speaker's colleague Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry is submitted to the Governor of Eesti Pank and concerns the activities of Eesti Pank in relation to the VEB Fund. Five members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry: Kalle Laanet, Deniss Borodich, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra. On 2 June 2012, the media released news that the liquidator of the VEB Fund has provided the Supreme Court with information that there are no documents regarding transactions carried out with the certificates of the VEB Fund for the amount of EEK 108 million. According to the liquidator, Eesti Pank has also provided incorrect data on the size of the claim of Russian residents in its letter of 5 April 1995, which in turn provided an opportunity to realise claims resulting from VEB Fund certificates amounting to 420 million kroons. To this day, we don't know who moved the money. It is not known whether and how much money was received for the certificates belonging to Eesti Pank, the state. It can be assumed that Eesti Pank has knowingly sent false information to the Russian Foreign Economic Bank. On this basis, according to the liquidation authority of the VEB Fund, more than EEK 462 million was received from Russia. In so doing, the government and the central bank have never publicly acknowledged that Russia has managed to obtain the money. The central bank now owes the public an explanation of what lies behind these dark transactions. Inquiries want an explanation as to whether Eesti Pank has taken any steps to clarify the circumstances of this transaction and, if so, which ones. To this end, we will submit an inquiry to the Governor of Eesti Pank together with five specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U94	Thank you. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U95	Good afternoon. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats and members of the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts on the opening of the electricity market. The electricity market will open in a little over 80 days. There is no way we can accept that a large part of Estonia's population is still in ignorance and confusion. They do not know what to do, which electricity package to choose and which electricity seller to enter into a contract with. You can only find information about market opening on the Internet. At the request of the members of the Association of Socialists and Democrats of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts must give the Riigikogu a comprehensive overview of the rise in electricity prices and justify why the state has left hundreds of thousands of people unaware. We ask, how does the information reach consumers who do not use the Internet who advise them on the choice of electricity packages? The Minister must also assess whether the aggressive selling techniques of Eesti Energia are in line with the rules of free competition. We also ask Juhan Parts, whose party promised to lower home expenses in the parliamentary elections, whether he knew at the beginning of 2011 that on 1 January next year electricity will be purchased on the stock market in Estonia. Was it a surprise for the Minister that the price of electricity is rising? According to the Minister, how many percent increase are people's electricity bills, whether and how are we planning to reduce the cost of home expenses for the people of Estonia and especially for vulnerable families? We ask whether the election promise 'Home expenses down', which was given two years ago, was an incompetence or a betrayal of conscious people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U96	Thank you. On behalf of the Governing Board, I have received two inquiries. If inquiries comply with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall forward them to the addressees immediately. Messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a The draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act, initiated on 8 October, is a commission on the environment; secondly, the Estonian Central Party Group. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic," submitted on 8 October, is the commission of finance, and the deadline for submitting amendments is s. 23 October at 6 p.m.; thirdly, the Social Democratic Party Group. A draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 9 October, is a commission of law. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and the Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. May I have your attention, please? Let's clarify the agenda. On today's fourth item, Reet Roos, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation by the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday we failed to read the first reading of the draft law amending the National Death Support Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. We will continue to ask questions to another rapporteur, Rein Aidma, a member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please, Mr Rein Aidma, the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Please ask a question, Mr Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U98	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague, the waitress. It turned out that this issue was also addressed in Question Time today. The Prime Minister answered basically many of the questions I wanted to ask you yesterday. But anyway, some things stayed open. The Prime Minister assessed our draft as unacceptable to the government and also to the Commission, where the coalition has a majority, it was not acceptable. I had a question as to what draft could be acceptable. How do you think it might be appropriate to entrust the government with the task of drafting a draft and resolving this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U99	Thank you for your question. In the Commission, we marked the next stage in such a way that the subject remains on the agenda. We will now call on the representatives of the local authorities to come together in the near future, and the representatives of the ministry will certainly take part in the debate. Following this, when positions have been drawn up, we must find a solution that will allow us to find a relatively painless solution to the problem of funeral support, particularly from the point of view of those who need help and, on the other hand, from the point of view of the rational use of our country's financial resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U100	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday's questions to Yana Toom and the criticism of this bill regarding the creation of universal support raised a question in me. I understand that the position often depends on the seat. As a former county governor, you will certainly be familiar with the financial cuts in the municipalities in 2009, when the commitment came over. How could you vote against this draft, knowing that municipalities have already turned to the State for additional funds through both the Cities Association and the Municipalities Association because of the impossibility of fulfilling this obligation? In 2009, when this obligation came over, funds were also reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U102	Thank you. Answering the question would certainly go beyond the Commission's review of the draft procedure. I can only say briefly that, firstly, cuts were made in the whole country at the time. Secondly, the state in its budget and the people who are also on the government's payroll lost more than local authorities at the time, especially in view of the funds obtained from the sale of CO2 quotas, etc. But once again: this is my answer to the question, we did not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U103	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U104	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear waitress, I will start my question with the words of a world-renowned politician that one death is tragic, a thousand deaths are statistics. Before this tragic statistics become available, I am pleased that you have understood the importance of the matter and are willing to discuss the issue of people who are already dead, already cremated and waiting to be buried in the future. Give some comforting words or counsel to those for whom death has been a tragedy and whose loved ones' ashes are waiting to be laid on the shelf next to the crematorium. Or did you not discuss this issue in the Commission like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U105	Thank you. Yes, in this exact position we did not discuss the issue in the Commission. But once again: last year, local authorities contributed more than EUR 500000 to this difficult issue. It is the right place for local authorities to alleviate this concern, to provide support. That's a fact we know. Whether the country can come to further help here will become clear in the future, as I have already said many times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U106	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U107	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question comes from your answers yesterday. You replied at some point that the Committee on Social Affairs was in trouble to deal with this draft; you were unable to meet with representatives of local governments. This bill was launched in the spring and there has been time. You mentioned that you didn't think it was necessary to come together this summer. I should probably refer the question of why the Commission organised its work in this way to the Commission's proposed draft co-rapporteur, Margus Tsahkna, the chairman of the committee. That's why I'm only asking you where Margus Tsahkna is. When the Commission itself appointed yesterday to discuss this draft and put Margus Tsahkna as rapporteur for the debate, where is he?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U108	Thank you. All I can say is that since Margus Tsahkna is currently on business, there has been such a change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U109	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U110	Thank you. In view of your answers yesterday, too, I wondered whether you really felt what you were talking about. We are talking about a situation that is perhaps the most difficult and saddest for the people, the loved ones of the deceased, perhaps in life. Will the coalition and ministers be able to see this troubled person here in Estonia in addition to the effective use of these funds? What was the vote in the committee, who voted how, also remained unanswered?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U111	Thank you. By way of introduction, I apologise for leaving the question on the other side yesterday, or rather, it was perhaps the beginning of the question, without a direct answer. I'm gonna start with that right now. The Commission proposed to send the draft to the first reading, which was adopted by consensus, unanimously. Secondly, the chairman of the committee proposed that the first reading be completed by three members of the committee voting in favour of this proposal, five against and zero abstentions. The proposal to conclude the first reading was therefore not supported. As far as the beginning of the question is concerned, we must realise that, even in the most tragic situations, including those where a country has difficulties, where local governments have difficulties, where the people of our country have difficulties, regardless of the circumstances, we must always act rationally and find solutions to situations that do not hurt anyone more. But once again, everything must be done within the limits of our limited resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U112	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I will also specify in my minutes, among other things, that I actually came up in committee myself with a proposal to invite social workers, on which I received a negative response. But that's it. Here's my question. Yesterday I was standing on the speaker's desk and I just got to read, I also looked at the verbatim: there were exactly nine coalition ambassadors in the hall. I'm sorry, there was a Mrs. Randjärv behind me, so there were 10. The other 46 did not find this point interesting enough, which actually indicates that you obviously have some kind of clear understanding of how to solve this problem in the future. Can you share this understanding with us, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U114	Thank you, my good colleague. I will respond briefly, because this is not an issue that we would have discussed in the Commission. I only say this: you know very well that the technical possibilities of the Riigikogu allow the discussion of any issue to be very closely monitored in their office, i.e. live. It certainly does not need to be physically present in the hall. So please do not draw the far-reaching conclusions that were contained in your question. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U115	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable speaker! Yesterday, and today, in Question Time, the Prime Minister stressed that in today's situation, the municipality must support, find the means to support people who need help in this situation. On the other hand, you know very well that there is no area in the responsibilities of local governments. It's pretty well written. I'm not talking about not being able to be in the future, but this is the case in the present situation. How do you think it would take time to develop a position where a state at government level and at municipal level would find a balance sheet on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U117	Thank you. Since we did not discuss such a task in the Commission when dealing with this draft, I am of course not able to provide precise, date-specific data from this remote control right now. Perhaps once again: it has been said on this board, the Prime Minister said today, the Minister of Social Affairs has said earlier, and it has also been confirmed that this issue will come up again, and we must then find a solution for which our resources are reasonable in terms of both local authorities and the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U118	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! Otherwise, your answers are very convincing, but you're not going to convince me today. You place a very large and cruel responsibility for funeral support on local governments and, as you know, you are a former local government leader. This question was raised in Ida-Viru County in the first place, but that's it. I would like to ask what is the Commission's future perspective in this regard? Will the funeral allowance be partly borne by the State, partly by the municipality, or will you discuss this issue in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U120	Thank you for your question. To predict what we are going to discuss in the future would be a little forward-looking. Let the Commission do its day-to-day work as it plans and manages it. I can only repeat when it comes to the issue of state versus local authorities that those who need this support most directly may need it more than today's EUR 191 and a little bit more, and then targeted, precisely for those who really need it, will provide the optimal response. This work is ahead of the Commission, but what kind of work will it be when the Commission comes to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U121	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It is really sad to hear what the state is saving on this day, but it is saving on the people who have contributed to the state budget. It is a pity that leaving is not a national priority. When it comes to money, I think the country gave EUR 3.5 million for funeral grants in the past, and you are saying that local authorities today support EUR 0.5 million. Local authorities also supported when the state supported, but local authorities have not been able to put more money there today. So let us honestly admit that the money to support people is EUR 3 million less.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U123	Thank you. I have to think about how to formulate it for myself as a question to answer. Firstly, that is not the way we discussed in the Commission. Secondly, it is still the case that the very amount of support referred to in your question clearly indicates that it is not feasible. Need-based support is still useful. How this mechanism is going to develop and can be developed, let's not describe it in detail right now in this remote control. It will be the product of the subsequent work of the Commission and the institutions concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U124	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! In fact, it is still a shame how the Government of the Republic adds tasks to the local government on a day-to-day basis, but the funds do not contribute to their execution. Between 2000 and 2009, when the Reform Party was also under government responsibility, the Government of the Republic and the State found it to be a state obligation and paid a death grant. Since 2009, especially in this two-day debate in Parliament, you and your party partner, Prime Minister Ansip, have found that this is no longer a national task. For nine years you considered it a duty of the state, and the state paid a funeral grant, but in today's debate and yesterday's debate you have found that this is no longer a task for the state. Why the change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U126	Thank you. We did not discuss the matter in the Commission from this point of view, but I say once again to the verbatim report from this very point of view that it is not just the task of the state; it is really the task of the local government. And I repeat: if, before 2009, in view of the increase in our budget, we may have thought of even bigger subsidies, including those granted to local authorities, in 2012, we will have a financial economic situation in which we have to count every cent, and even better if the public sector uses all these cents as accurately and as targeted as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U127	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As I understand it, you only support targeted support for those who need it, and I believe that funeral support is really given to people who are dead and need burial, not to all residents. But here it must also be taken into account that they are mostly elderly people who have been sitting for our freedom in Siberia, who have built up everything that we later privatized in difficult Soviet times, who have contributed to everything we consume. However, should the state, which pays them a shameful pension, provide medical care that does not ensure recovery and almost fully withdraws the pension in the nursing home, not be able to give them their last sympathy and respect and to pay funeral allowances?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U129	Thank you. We didn't talk about Siberia on the Commission, but I know this history perfectly, a respected questioner, through my family's acquaintances and parents. Turning your question a little bit on your head, I am going to go personal now, once again, that we did not discuss it in the committee: let us not go from this issue to the track.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U130	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U131	Thank you. The rapporteur from the Commission. You mentioned that funeral allowance could be discussed further if it were needs-based. The bill states that the deceased's relatives will receive this support when they feel the need to write a statement. Consequently, those who do not know the need do not write a statement and receive no support. Does such an observation change your position and are you prepared to discuss the draft further?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U132	Thank you. My personal position can be seen in my vote. I'm not here on the remote now to show you my personal views. I am talking here today about what we discussed in the Commission, as a representative of the Commission, is my main task. But I repeat: the public sector is not only a state, it is also a local government, and this is a matter for local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U133	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U134	Thank you. Did the Commission have a discussion, or did a member of the Commission come up with the idea that the Commission could draw up a draft that would make it possible to pay a funeral allowance based on needs, or did it not discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U135	We didn't discuss it under this rate. However, once again, the way we develop the new draft, the principles we follow and where we arrive is the task of the Commission's next work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U136	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! In one of your responses, you mentioned that the Commission has a plan to invite social partners to the round table debate on this issue. Did the Commission discuss when this meeting would take place and how quickly this issue would come back to the Commission? It's taken you six months to discuss it. How long could this go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U138	Thank you. We did not prepare or discuss such a timetable in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U139	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U140	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good front speaker! I'll continue with my benchmate's question. Was there any need-based conditions in the Commission, or was this need-orientation aspect not discussed in the Commission at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U141	Thanks for asking. Since the draft had been presented with the aim of restoring the outright support, as it was before 2009, without mentioning the date, we did not really discuss such a matter in the Commission alongside this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U142	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U143	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I believe that this issue was not discussed in the Commission, but what is your position and your vision, is there any demand for such support in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U144	Thank you. You are asking for my personal opinion, but I do not think that anyone in the Commission is of the opinion that such support is not needed. This support actually exists in the Republic of Estonia. It is only a question of how to better fund it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U145	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, On the basis of which you in the Commission came to the conclusion that this draft is calling for the restoration of outright support if the draft proposes to formulate the preamble to § 7 (1) of the Act in such a way that the aid is still granted to the person submitting the application? If no support is needed, it does not submit a statement. It's not really support, it's need-based. The person who needs to make this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U147	Thank you. The question put and the content of the outright support may not be one-to-one, that is clear. However, the principle is that the resources that the state allocates to local authorities for funeral support as a separate line, or flag, as it has been used to sometimes, are not meant to be for anyone who could claim it for any reason. In this case, we are talking about the fact that support, in the form it was before 2009, in the form of public funding, is not feasible. Indeed, the Commission stated that it was not appropriate to restore it. That is why we also came here today with the proposal to reject the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U148	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U149	Thank you. I understood from your reply that the majority of the Commission does not believe that such support is needed in Estonia in this form. Today, in Question Time, the Prime Minister said that needs-based funeral support could be considered. For some reason, he didn't want me to know why to tell him when it would come to the Riigikogu. But since you are more familiar with the internal life of this committee than I am, how do you feel: if such a draft came from the government, would the majority of the Commission still be of the same opinion that no funeral support is needed, or could the Commission change its position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U150	Thank you, good questioner! Neither the Commission nor I from this remote control has ever said that there is no need for appropriate funeral support. Yes, it is. However, when and how we include this country's additional resources for municipalities, in any case, we will only be able to do so once we have discussed it in the Commission. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U151	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U152	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I do not know whether you have understood the subject or whether I have not understood your answer. You said, in answer to my question, that there is absolutely such support, the question is only how it will be shared. I will read in the explanatory memorandum and remind you that it is the task of the local authorities to ensure that funerals are organised only if the person is unfamiliar or the person is unknown. After all, everyone else lost that support. Perhaps the local authorities should be relieved of this responsibility and responsibility, and the state should assume all these responsibilities, so that the state can feel directly and directly the pain and misery that people are suffering in such a sad event.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U153	Thank you, dear questioner. I understand you, and you probably understand the answers if you want to, but maybe you interpret them in your own way. I repeat that, first of all, we did not discuss this in the Commission at the moment. The fact is, however, that local authorities are the closest to solving local people's most immediate problems and problems. The question is how the country can provide further support in a possible emergency. This is an issue that we will address in the future. However, in this case, this support is indeed there for those who, at the discretion of the local authorities, need it. Local government is now the closest supporter of this person.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U154	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U155	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I am very sympathized with your view that the local government is the closest to people to solving their concerns. We certainly want to support this idea. If you make a small improvement here, was there a discussion in the Commission or what your own thoughts are, how could these expenses be covered by the local government? Do you foresee any new local tax, or do you see any national tax, such as personal income tax, becoming a local tax, or are you raising the percentage of personal income tax? This is a very sympathetic idea, but I believe that it was certainly the idea that the local government was the closest to such concerns, including further development. Did you discuss the source question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U156	Thank you, my dear colleague, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Of course, we did not discuss such an additional tax as you mentioned in your question. I guess that's out of the question. However, I will stick to the fact that the local government is the most direct helper of its inhabitants and concerned people on these issues. To the extent that the public resources available to the State can be used, i.e. what is their upper limit, we can also cover the costs. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U157	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rein Aidma. I will open negotiations and ask for the representative of the Centre Party Group, Marika Tuus-Laul. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U158	Thank you. Good ambassadors! The payment of the funeral allowance was waived by the Second Supplementary Budget Act 2009. On June 18, the law was passed, and after 12 days it came into force. I remember that this amendment was put in the budget debate, then withdrawn again, and finally, of course, it was done. So the coalition, at that time the Reform Party and the IRL, who were certainly supported by the Greens, especially in the case of cuts, made this decision. It seems that they were ashamed of themselves, precisely with such a proposal to balance the budget. Today is the third time that such a draft has been drawn up by the Central Party Group and the previous composition of the People's Union and a separate group of representatives of the Central Party and the former Group of the People's Union, including Mai Treial and Ester Tuiksoo. It is true that the amounts in the previous composition were 3000 kroons, but this time we have added that the funeral organizer must submit an application to the pension institution. So we can say that, for the third year, no public funeral allowance has been paid to private individuals. It is paid to the municipality or city administration if they have to arrange a funeral for an unknown or unfamiliar deceased. Not just by supporting those who need help, but by saying very precisely. After cutting the national funeral allowance, the amounts that people go to funerals have increased considerably. Very many people just can't afford to make that money, and they really are in trouble. Of course, those who are unexpectedly affected by this sad event have come into a very difficult economic situation. However, many municipalities are very poor and cannot help people in difficult circumstances, as the money of local governments has also been repeatedly cut. 3.5 million euros was the amount of money that the government took away people from the coffin money at the time and left people in a very difficult and depressing situation in this way. It is awkward to read the justification given by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur for the money being taken: to improve the efficiency of the use of funds. It is, of course, frustrating to hear this expression from the Minister for Social Affairs, who would expect more social sensitivity than perhaps from another minister. And then suddenly it is added to the statement that restricting the circle of funeral allowance to municipalities and municipalities is not meant as a temporary solution. So, in fact, in 2009, the government did not make all these cuts from the need to get more money into the state budget at that time, but simply took advantage of the situation that the very few subsidies and benefits that this very thin state still paid would be taken away forever. So, speaking your tongues, money was taken from people's pockets. I recall that this was not the only cut made at the expense of the deceased's bereaved loved ones. One of the first cuts made by the Ansip Government in 2008 was the increase in VAT on funeral services and funeral goods. It was a very large increase, from 5% to 18%, then to 20%. Everything related to the funeral, from the coffin to the mourning service, became more expensive. It also made funeral arrangements much more expensive and on a daily basis. But it's not that simple, we'll take it off and that's it. I want to stress that Estonia has joined the European Social Charter and the Social Security Code. The funeral allowance is one of the types of social security that Estonia has considered to be binding on itself and has ratified this point. This decision simply needs to be enforced. But what has Estonia done? We've left an insurance cover on this one. It is as if the state is paying this support, as has already been said, to bury people who do not belong to local governments. But people don't really get support. It's a typical jock-off again or manipulating the people. I remember that earlier, when this support was paid, one year the Social Charter report specifically noted in a bad way that Estonian funeral grants were too small and did not meet the standards. This aid was then increased. So in this case, under the Social Code and the Social Charter, we have not done what is required of us and what we ourselves have agreed to. The withdrawal of the coffin money has left a very bad sign of the Ansip governments. I'm terribly sorry the Minister of Social Affairs went along with this. Public finances cannot be maintained at the expense of people's livelihoods. But you have the opportunity to support this bill today. I think you'll be right in front of yourself, and by the end of the day, you'll feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U159	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rein Aidma, about two minutes as a representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U160	Thank you, Mr President. I'll make a little bit of a clarification. In fact, according to the available data, the share of Estonian funeral allowance in the Social Security Code has not been ratified. This means that we have not committed ourselves to these requirements either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U161	Thank you very much. There's no more calls now. I'm closing the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft, this proposal must be voted through. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the State Death Support Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, 235. Please vote! 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. Bill 235 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U162	We will begin the third reading of the draft Act 241 amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Since this law requires a majority in the composition for adoption, please let us do a presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 241 amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U163	The next item is the second reading of the draft Law on Supplementing Electronic Communications, § 90, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to ask Mr Tõniste, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending § 90 of the Electronic Communications Act 243 at its meeting on 24 September. The discussion was about sending a second reading. Mart Laas, Deputy Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Peeter Sookrus, Head of Media Department of the Ministry of Culture were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Commission's proposal is to amend the draft by supplementing Paragraph 90 (1) of the Electronic Communications Act by replacing the word'remuneration' with'reasonable remuneration'. The wording would read as follows: "The free-access television service provider has the right to charge a reasonable remuneration to the cable service provider for the retransmission of television programmes. ' The addition of this clarification better conveys the objective of the provision that the negotiations between the parties should be aimed at concluding an agreement in good faith. It also deprives one party of the possibility of imposing unreasonable charges on the other. It should also be stressed that, where a free access television service provider charges a cable operator for the retransmission of its television programmes, the latter is not obliged to transmit such programmes on its cable network. This transmission obligation shall apply only if the television service provider does not charge a fee for the retransmission of television programmes. The amendment of the bill takes account of the fact that § 73 (1) of the Copyright Act applies, according to which the television and radio service provider has the exclusive right to authorise and prohibit the retransmission of its programmes. This copyright rule also gives the Estonian National Broadcasting Company the exclusive right to permit or prohibit the retransmission of their broadcasts and hence the right to charge a fee to the telecommunications company if retransmission is permitted in accordance with the agreement. Therefore, the revision of this Act should not change the situation that has developed for the ERR today. The Commission decided by consensus to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 10 October 2012, to propose the termination of the second reading and to send it to the third reading when the second reading is completed, on 18 October 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U165	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U166	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, I will not ask you for a definition of reasonable remuneration and ask you to start justifying it here. It is clear that whoever buys wants to pay less, and anyone who wants to get rid of his goods would want more compensation. But in the Commission, we also mentioned that this is all temporary after all. Yeah, maybe this bill really takes some tension off, but not forever. I don't want you guys to start divinating around here either. But that's what I'd like you to say in this hall, is it gonna solve the problems of leaving the freeway, that TV3 and Channel 2 might not come back in a year with the idea that they're leaving.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U167	Thank you. I guess a lot of things in this life are temporary. Sometimes these temporary things also stay for a very long time, becoming 'non-temporary'. But I understand your concern. In today's situation, as a result of this bill, we want to get to the point where TV channels are available for as long as possible, and as long as the audience is relatively large (at present around 13 to 13.5%, 75000 families), advertising money will move there. Now that's predicting whether this time is a year, two, three, five. The development of technology is very rapid in the world at all, and we know that the owners of analogue phones may be upset, why they have to call the mobile network so that someone can compensate them for that phone. At the same time, there's a high-speed broadband connection, a mobile channel transfer, whatever. It's hard to say how quickly technological progress breaks into this area and when the viewers of free distribution are all dwindling up, so it doesn't make sense for television channels to be there anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U168	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also mention that it was not possible to charge any fees, including copyright fees, for alleged national broadcasting? What was the Commission's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U170	Thank you. This issue was discussed and it was found that the right of national broadcasting to receive remuneration from a communications service provider under the Copyright Act remains. So there should be no problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U171	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U172	Thank you. Very briefly, the Commission was talking about a possible state subsidy for these channels, which remain free-to-air, also covered an amount of around EUR 300000 per year, and that these channels could remain free-to-air in the future. Has this issue been addressed in the coalition and is it considered important for the preparation of the 2014 budget, for example? Maybe pay off TV3 and Channel 2 instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U173	Thank you. To be honest, I do not remember having had a specific discussion on this subject. I figured that if these channels went off the grid, there might actually be a situation where you could talk about some state-side subsidy so they wouldn't go away. But right now, it's really just that they want to get paid or that they have the right to charge for showing a picture on cable TV. This is a mutual interest, an interest of the television channels in getting paid and an interest of the cable provider to have what to show him to have viewers, and there is this agreement somewhere in the meantime. I don't think there's gonna be a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U174	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U175	Honourable waitress! In fact, it is not much to do with itself; it is not much different from what it used to be. But I realize that sometimes it makes sense to introduce the word'reasonable' into some law, in case it gives a reasonable result. If the law is adopted in this form, can you, as the representative of the Economic Commission, calmly say that the ladies can continue to watch their favorite series?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U176	Today I have no reason to worry that they can't. And that makes sense. This must be justified on both sides. It takes away the fears of both parties that someone is simply going to ask for an unjustified payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U177	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U178	Thank you. What will happen if we do not change this law, as opposition parties are likely to think here? I have understood that in this case, the black scenario would apply. These channels would leave free distribution, the display would be empty in rural areas and at the same time the channels leaving free distribution would have the right to charge cable viewers. So nothing positive would happen if we didn't change the law. Am I getting this right, or is there something crazy here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U179	Thank you. Well, the situation is that even now, TV channels can get out of free distribution from the minute, and indirectly they have either threatened or said that they have such thoughts. If we don't do anything today, I don't dare say here that they're going off free-access television. Maybe you'd still be there for years, because there's still a huge number of viewers, and the benefits they get from the ads are also great. Our draft will certainly help to improve the situation and, in my opinion, make more sense. It's normal that if you produce something, you have the right to be rewarded for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U180	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U181	So I ask you again: is the Committee on Economic Affairs now sure that they will remain free?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U182	Yeah, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U183	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. We're opening negotiations. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U184	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the bill was four months ago and nothing very important has changed in that time, both Channel 2 and TV3 are still on the freeway. The draft law has been discussed several times in the Committee on Economic Affairs. As you can see, there is one word added to the bill, the word'reasonable', so now it is'reasonable'. It is very difficult to come here to appreciate how each party will behave in the future in the light of this law, but I will remind you all of the real purpose of this draft. The aim is precisely that people received a strong signal from the government 2.5 years ago: get a digibo and you will see free distribution channels. Very little time has passed, and now people are questioning whether they were doing the right thing at the time when they went out with a little less than a thousand kroons, because maybe after a while, they will have to find another solution to continue to see both Channel 2 and TV3. The Socialist Group does not see the adoption of a legislative amendment as a solution to the problem. A very good response came from the Estonian Broadcasting Association, which in its letter says that if the legislator's will is to guarantee the consumer the current situation in which the consumer was able to view free-to-air television programmes free of charge or for minimum remuneration, it will not be guaranteed once this bill enters into force. We are very much in agreement with that. In the meantime, it has been said that those who are exposed to cable operators would pay more, and those who use free distribution would pay nothing. Is this unequal treatment? I would like to remind you once again that the users of free distribution have actually also made a one-off investment and bought a digibox. They've also paid for it. We also believe that the draft does not guarantee that the channels that turn to the public at least once a year to leave the open area will not do so in six months, one year or two years' time. I asked about possible state support, that is EUR 300000 or EUR 400000, precisely because it is to give the government's signal that they are not left alone to people who are currently watching television on free television. Perhaps we should also look the truth in the eye and honestly tell people: this digital revolution, two years ago, was of course necessary, quality improved, we have nothing to do with it, but be good and, after a year or two, start looking for other solutions to keep your television image safe in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U185	Would you like three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U186	Yes, please! As a result, we can see that the draft does not resolve inconsistencies between programme producers, cable providers or consumers. For this reason, we cannot support the draft either. I will finish my story with the exact same sentence that I said here on 12 June: promises must be kept and the people should not feel deceived! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U187	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for Arto Asa next!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U188	Thank you. On the basis of the previous speech, I would like to add a few points or comments. Of course, the State cannot force private operators to be free-to-air. It's very expensive to be free on the air. That is why the solution now is that we are winning the time until the state is prepared to pay off the private channels free-flying, which we are not discussing right now. We do not have any money in the budget for this, and I think it would be inappropriate, in the light of wage demands, to discuss this issue at the moment. We actually buy time and can rely on what private channels themselves have promised us. They have told us, during the procedure of the bill, that if this law changes, they will remain free for another two or three years. It's quite a long time, quite a long time for people living in rural areas who can't get to the cable. So trusting in private television channels, I do have the conviction that this legislative amendment will improve today's situation. At least the risk that tomorrow, these canals will disappear from the air will disappear. And the fact that we are creating legal clarity that cable TV companies have to pay a certain fee for broadcasting Channel 2 and TV3 programmes to these private channels is perfectly natural to pay for each item. In fact, there is a legal contractual relationship between cable companies and television channels, paid for Channel 11, TV6, etc. These relationships and prices have evolved and this practice exists. Of course, we cannot look forward to what will happen in five or ten years' time here, but in the near future, this law will be necessary, and that is why I am asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U189	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. One amendment to the draft has been received from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The second reading of Bill 243 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U190	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you draft law No 259 amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. We have a proposal to the Riigikogu to create the possibility by this law of adding chemical compounds to the list of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, the treatment of which is prohibited only if it is intended to cause a person to drink drugs. If you explain this a little bit, the draft provides for a ban on dealing with chemical compounds potentially hazardous to health, if the aim, as I said, is to make a person drink drugs. The draft restricts the availability of chemical compounds potentially hazardous to health for the purpose of obtaining psychoactive effects, prevents health damage and, of course, also protects public health in general. For such compounds, it is proposed to include in the Regulation 'Conditions and procedures for the treatment and reporting of narcotics and psychotropic substances for medical and scientific purposes, as well as lists of narcotics and psychotropic substances' list V, which currently includes two substances, gammabutyrolactone and 1,4-butanediol, abbreviations GBL and 1,4-BD. To say what these abbreviations really mean, rural languages are linked to drug abuse or drug abuse. GBL is also the starting material for GHB, or cork drink, which is more widely discussed in the media. In order for these precursors to be banned, such a list needs to be confirmed at the level of the law. There is also a difference here, as I said, that these substances are forbidden to be handled for the purpose of drug abuse. The reason is very simple. In particular, GBL and 1,4-BD are also used for industrial purposes, in particular in the synthesis of rubber and plastics, as well as in the paint industry and as an industrial solvent. We certainly support the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to conclude the first reading and, of course, to adopt the draft after the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U192	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U193	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! This is another example of how the money world's interest in finding compounds that cause drug abuse often leads to new and innovative steps. How much does your ministry have to deal with such developments and how often or how much information do you get from elsewhere? Are these the results of the work of Estonian laboratories, or is it rather the result of international cooperation, that such compounds are already in use somewhere, are on sale, and that is why we have to catch up with the laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U194	Thank you. All the channels are working. Of course, our main source is the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the Estonian Forensic Institute in the Ministry of Justice. We have a close enough relationship with the Forensic Institute. If they detect anything new, either from someone's blood or otherwise, if they've received a signal that something like this is moving on the market, then that signal will reach us. Consequently, for our part, if there is a ministerial regulation, we will immediately add it to the list. We have also included in this draft how many of these precursors have been confiscated by the Police and Border Guard Board in recent years. But since the law's boundary was so thin on this site, the GBL was not directly banned, it was industrially used and continues to be industrially used, it was difficult for the police to link it to specific crimes. I hope that, following the adoption of this draft, the work of the police will be made clearer in the same way. If such substances are to come again, the same list of V that is now being added is where these substances can be added more easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U195	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U196	Thank you. I'll come back to the compounds mentioned in your report. Are there any industrially used developments at the same time, which cause concern, but for which we have not reached quite a certain draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U197	Thank you. I wouldn't use the word 'exploited use', it's certainly not a commodity. If a criminal or ill-intentioned person uses either GHB directly or as a result of it to stun people, then it is obviously a crime from a certain country, and from a certain country, if it has not yet been established by law, it is unfortunately not a crime. Now we're giving it a chance. As far as I know, there should be no substance on the market that should be banned, but not banned. But like I said, what's happening on the market is changing pretty fast. Reports from the Forensic Institute are received at a certain frequency, sometimes more frequently, sometimes less frequently. Well, it depends on what developments and changes are taking place in the criminal landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U198	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt! I can't hear you. Do we have a technical problem? Let's take a break and try to fix this. We'll take a break for at least two minutes first. We'll proceed at 3:17.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U199	The President shall extend the technical break for another ten minutes. Proceed at 15.28.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U200	Honourable Riigikogu, do you agree to proceed after a five-minute break instead of a ten-minute break announced because of a technical problem? Now the remotes should be fine. Andres Anvelt can ask the Minister a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U201	Thank you, Madam President. I hope it wasn't an Anonymous cyber attack. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs continues to be that GBH has been known on the Estonian market for about 15 years and its precursors have been known for almost as long. Can you tell me why it's taken so long to put these precursors on that list that it's only on today's agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U202	Thank you. I'll specify it's GHB. It's difficult to tell you why it just got there. The fact is that negotiations with the Police and Border Guard Board and the Estonian Forensic Institute on what and how to regulate have certainly taken some time. If we look at this time line, it was the same question that these substances are legally present on the Estonian market. It was necessary to create such regulation so that those who legally bring this compound to Estonia would not be put at risk by their business activities, and at the same time to rule out illegal activities. It has therefore taken such a time to reach these agreements. I do not have a very specific, single-phrase answer in this sense, why now and not two years ago. The important thing is that we are here with this question, the important thing is that we have come to a clear understanding with all parties about what this regulation should be and where it should be. First we start with the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, we must have a mandate rule from the Riigikogu. At first, we also considered whether the Minister could simply take this regulation and enter it into the regulation according to his own discretion. In a long discussion with the lawyers, it turned out that it is still not possible to create an additional list of V and then it is possible to put it there. Writing the text of the law along with the explanatory memorandum and all the coordination circles itself takes quite a considerable amount of time. But here we are today, we will do this work in the Riigikogu as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U203	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Reet Roosi, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U204	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed a draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors in 259 countries, initiated by the Government. a on 24 September 2005. During the meeting, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and Head of Health Policy of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Ene Augasmägi gave an overview of the draft. I'm not going to rephrase the contents of the bill. However, the Commission examined whether the Penal Code should be supplemented in this respect. We have received a clear answer that this does not have to be done, because if the purpose of the substance has been identified and proven, this draft is a prohibited activity, without the need to be accompanied by a drug drink, it is sufficient for action to be aimed at it. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 24 October 2012 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U205	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Reet Roos! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. According to the Commission's proposal, the first reading is closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 259 amendments on 24 October 2012 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U206	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Fees Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Deniss Borodichi and Rainer Vakra. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U207	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber, colleagues who listen to this presentation in their rooms, and anyone who listens to or reads this report at all! As I begin to introduce this little legislative amendment, unfortunately, I cannot begin as those performers who come to the remote control are terrifying and radiant and say that this is a very good or, at least, a good bill. Unfortunately, all I can say is that this is a very complex bill. I therefore also understand why the Committee on the Environment has been discussing this for so long. I must confess to you that the idea of drafting this bill matured in me a little more than three years ago, in 2009, when the Riigikogu changed the Environmental Charges Act. I dared to come up with these thoughts at the meeting of the Centre Party Group just over a year ago. I have tried to sell this idea to coalition politicians. I understand why the Central Party Group did not support me this time. It is not the opposition's job to raise taxes, but here it is in a sense. Why did I dare to come out with this bill to the Democrats? I thank them for their support for this bill. I dared because I've been in these things for quite a long time, decades. I'm telling you, this is a very, very expensive bill. With this bill, we are basically setting out how billions of euro will move in the coming years. Estonia is a country of oil shale; it is an oil state; we have over a billion tons of oil shale reserves explored. Article 5 of our Constitution says that natural resources are the property of the state, i.e. they are the property of our people. We sell this property to our entrepreneurs. This bill has been tabled because we have done it too cheaply. In a way, we have given away this mineral. I have with me here all the objections that have been made to the Commission on the draft, and I will go over them here today, and I will also speak in favour as much as I can during this period. But most of all, I would like to stress that this bill is not only fair for our people, but it is also fair for those companies that mine and process oil shale. I've been at the rebirth of the companies involved in this. These are Kunda Nordic Cement, Viru Chemistry Group and Eesti Energia. I've seen their lives near and far. Many of the owners of these companies are my friends and they don't congratulate me on coming up with this bill. But I think my friends will remain with me even after the bill is passed as a law. This bill, of course, is not entirely fair. The draft is unfair in the sense that it was only the state that promised that environmental charges would not be tackled before 2015. But I would draw a very clear line here. What is the oil shale resource tax? It's an oil resource tax. When we are talking about taxation of local mineral resources, we are talking about sand, gravel or peat, but the taxation of oil resources takes place on a whole different basis in developed countries. It is an energy source and is taxed on other grounds. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, oil shale we give away at a very low price. The price of coal on the world market is now 115 euros per tonne, while the price of oil shale is 10€11 euros. We'll get oil shale for 11 euros. The difference between the heating values is only three times the difference, but the difference is ten times the difference. The Estonian Nature Foundation and the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations have informed the Commission that, based on these calculations (not on emotions), the rate of charge for the use of oil shale could be 21.6 euros, not 3.4 euros, as suggested by the Democrats and as suggested by me. It is calculated on the basis of CO2 emissions. It can be done by a certain method. However, our oil shale industry is currently not suffering a user fee of EUR 20 or a sales tax, but the EUR 3 suffers, not in the short term, but in the long term. We have long-term decisions to make here. Let's see who digs and consumes oil shale and who processes it. There are four oil shale miners, four processors and five users. These are Eesti Energia, Viru Chemistry Group, Kunda Nordic Cement and Kiviõli oil industry. The only one who buys oil shale is Silmet's thermal power plant. So we're going to directly change the input of only five companies with this bill. I am now going through the statements made by the Commission. I congratulate the Commission on its approach to all those involved. The answers were also received. I comment on these things lightly, in the sense that time does not allow it to be done very deeply. But, as I said, the positions that companies took out are basically correct. The most correct principle that goes through all these views is that the state must not behave like it wants to do with resources. For the third time, he is coming up with a resource tax, even though he has promised not to. We changed this tax in 2009 and before that in 2005. Although we had promised that we wouldn't, but then people like me or us or your kind came in and started talking to get money out of there. Why did I come up with this idea? Well, it's a kind of policy to come out with it and put a sign on that good law. Still looking at it like it's selling. I am very grateful that during these five months, when this bill was in the drawer for a while, but in fact, the subject was so-called "up" as well as the government, not only because, but still, it was the case. The government has begun to deal with these issues. If this debate continues, we may come to a review of the deadlines and certainly these figures, but we must make our own decisions on oil shale resources. We must make this tax right and fair to the people and users. Here's another argument. I have here today's Business Day, which lists the Ida-Viru companies' TOP. We can see that oil companies are at the top here. Robert Karpelin, a former employee of mine, who runs the stone oil chemical industry, writes that they will die when the resource tax rises. Let's look at the profitability of these last few years. It's fluctuated within 30%. We all know what 30% profitability is, but there are entrepreneurs in this Chamber who also feel what it means when the company has a turnover of EUR 34.6 million and a profit of EUR 12 million. Or take my other friends' company. The Viru Chemistry Group has really invested a lot, it has very high financial costs, EUR 183 million, while the profit is 34 million. If we raise the additional resource charge to two kroons, this means that last year their profits would have been EUR 30 million, not EUR 34 million. Viru Chemistry Group used about two million tonnes of oil shale and a two-euro resource fee would amount to four million euros. Or we could take Stone Oil from Chemical Industries. Its profit was 12 million euros. It used a million tonnes of oil shale, so if an additional resource fee were imposed, the profit would have been EUR 10 million. In a way, it may be vile to read other people's money, right, but you have to do it from time to time. We'll take Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia's profit was around 150 million euros. He would have lost 34 million out of that 150 million, not actually lost, but should have paid more. Its profits would then have been EUR 34 million lower. However, these issues must not be viewed for just one year. If we look long-term, we can see that this sector has earned well from oil shale. Since it belongs to the people, the people also have the right to receive more from oil shale. Whether we put this money in the salaries of teachers or rescuers or develop medicine is our will, our mind and perhaps emotional determination. I promised you that I would go over the views on why this tax should not be raised. These views have been presented to the Commission by my former combat companions and current friends. I was talking here about one, the other and the third why this could and should be done from the point of view of justice, but let's see what the Viru Chemistry Group has written, who has filed the most meaningful objection. I underline here that they say that basically the effects of the draft have not been analysed. Yeah, it's actually possible to analyze everything. For example, we can analyze whether it is black or white because everyone sees things with a certain shade. But the figures I told you about are not written on white, but on pink, because Äripäev is this colored page, and they are written in dark color. These are not figures for one year, but they show a tendency. It is an oil shale resource that we are taxing, which is in the ground, which belongs to our people, and which is over a billion tons. When we talk about two or twenty euros per tonne, it is either billions or tens of billions of euros. All right, it's not a year or two, it's ten or thirty years' money that we should argue about here and think about how we've been taught to many with this wealth that oil shale is our wealth. Do we really use it to improve the well - being of our people, our people, by doing so sensibly, or do we give a great deal of it to certain groups? The owners will certainly use this money to develop businesses, and from that we would win in a certain sense all. This is the place to decide. That's one thing I wanted to say to you and to my friends. The Riigikogu and the statesmen and women should approach this way. Why did I dare to say that I've been at the rebirth of these companies? 15 years ago, the situation was that the price of oil on the world market was low and the country supported and subsidised these companies, giving them oil shale at a very low price, as this sector was almost collapsing. Now things have changed. We need to want and know how to look at these things, give them the right estimates and move on from this base, so that we really appreciate the oil shale correctly. So, what can I tell you in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U208	It's the end. Maybe you can say something else when you answer your questions. Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U209	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You used a lot of numbers in your long report. That's where I got the question. If we put two euros in oil shale tons, we can see that the price of electricity is rising and the price of heat is also rising. After that, other prices will also increase. Can you tell me how the price of electricity and heat will change when two more euros comes to a ton?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U210	No, I can't. The smart one hasn't yet been born to tell me what the price is going to be. Because no one knows what the price of electricity and heat will be next year. In a way, they are speculation. I can say for sure that the price of electricity will not change for people because of this tax, because we are going to go to the free market and the electricity will be bought on the market. As far as the price of heat is concerned, there is pressure on the price of heat in two cities, Narva and Sillamäe, which use oil shale to produce heat. How strong it's going to be, I can't tell you that, but there's definitely some pressure. If we look at the substantial need for these companies to increase the price, I do not see that need. I spoke to Ago Silde today and asked how he would survive this good news if he had to start buying oil shale from Stone Oil two euros more expensive. He didn't squeal for joy, but he thought they wouldn't weld it to the price of heat.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U211	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The resource fee for the oil shale must be increased and, to some extent, as we agree, it is certainly fair and right. I think the notion that it needs to be raised is general. But there are two areas of energy and related industry that have recently been treated like hot porridge. One is companies engaged in renewable energy, or specifically in wind energy, and the other is oil shale oil production and industry. Which, in your opinion, is more profitable for businesses now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U213	If the subsidies that we have introduced remain, then wind energy will certainly be a very profitable way of producing energy. As far as the oil industry is concerned, the oil industry is currently very profitable, but we in Estonia do not produce electricity from oil. We basically sell our oil shale oil, to some extent we do it in Estonia, but we also export it. If you say what the profit is, it's kind of speculative. This profit is not low in one sector or another. The question is, we're not subsidising the oil industry, but we're paying for wind energy. Everyone we are in this hall will pay for it. In Estonian cents we paid 84 cents per kilowatt-hour, with Narva Power Plants receiving almost a third of it. I'm not saying the exact number, because this is going to be so-called tape.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U214	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to thank you for this report, which was much more meaningful and more comprehensive than the explanatory statement. In the explanatory memorandum, you state that, from 1 January, the price of electricity depends on the power exchange, which is why the introduction of an additional resource tax is not decisive for the consumer. Let me get this straight, and do you agree that if we reduce some existing tax, such as electricity excise duty, which is very low, by 3 to 4%, then this step, too, does not matter to the end user?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U216	It's always important, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, As you said yourself, it depends on who cares what matters. The question is whether this effect is large or small. The reduction in excise duty certainly does not produce much of a numerical result, but as far as the impact on electricity prices is concerned, it is non-existent as electricity is purchased on the market. So there's a difference. The impact on excise duty is relatively small if we take it as percentages (I am not saying this percentage by heart right now), but on the free market it has absolutely no effect. 'Absolutely' is even wrong to say that a little bit might, however, be affected, because if we do not produce electricity ourselves in this region, the market price will be higher if we do not buy Russian electricity. Our connections currently do not allow Nord Pool to be bought from Spot and Nord Pool Spot itself still has different regions. So if we don't, our price will go up. It may have some effect, but no one can even say it in numbers, not even afterwards, that can only be expected. This effect is almost nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U217	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I certainly hope that this draft will be supplemented between the first and second readings, as well as between the second and third readings. I'm asking you about a possible addition. You write in your explanatory statement that you will use the extra money you receive to raise teachers' salaries. At the same time, § 4 (3) of the Environmental Charges Act states that the money received from environmental charges in the state budget can be used to maintain environmental status, to recover natural resources and to repair environmental damage. Did you mean that this bill should not only change the rate of charge, but also change § 4 and that it should allow other costs to be incurred by way of money from environmental charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U219	You read that passage. This section, which says that environmental charges are intended for environmental purposes, was also mentioned by these companies. I can answer that way here: the environment depends very much on teachers. Teaching children is extremely important. What matters is how they view nature, life, etc. There's a lot of speculation here. This idea, as I said in my presentation, certainly has its own political taste. Take it like this. We're both in opposition right now. The opposition has been accused of coming up with very good ideas about who should be helped and what kind of property or event the state should finance, but no one will tell you what money is coming from or from. Basically, all the money goes to one boiler, to the state budget, and it can be diverted to that place, to that place, to that place, and to the third place. It is clear that one, the other and the third are to be used for the purpose, but all these things can be directed. The point of the bill is, what I have also said, so that our country and people can get the right price for oil shale. Where are we going with this money? Like I said, teachers' salaries, or there or there. If there is money, it can be redeployed within the budget. This is not only possible, it is always done. Those who have been involved in making the budget, not in the Riigikogu, but elsewhere, know how it boils. I'm not saying I know that exactly, but I think I do know something.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U220	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U221	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In my opinion, this issue is wider than raising resource charges alone. The issue also concerns the paradigms of the present, past and future. We have to look to the future for certain things. Your report said that oil shale is indeed one of the few resources we have, and so it would make sense to use it in the most efficient way. There are two ways to do this now. Firstly, it is used in the production of electricity, i.e. in plain language, to be put in an oven and received EUR 11 per tonne, as you pointed out. Secondly, it is possible to create added value, use it in the oil industry and sell it for oil, receiving EUR 400 per tonne. As a reasonable person, how would you use this resource? Would you rather support the creation of added value in the oil industry? What effective way would you use to produce electricity, given the cost of CO2 quotas and the cost of capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U222	Thank you. Dear ambassadors, please let us try to ask a question within a minute, and there is no need to give a speech when we ask a question. Please, answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U223	Of course, we are obliged to use oil shale prudently. That's what our constitution says and other laws say. It's the property of our people. Make oil from oil shale or stuff it into an oven? The answer is that it is absolutely necessary to make oil. Maybe not just fuel oil, but also light fuel or perfume, like the Viru Chemistry Group does and that's the most expensive. According to the current principles of European energy policy, this furnace should not be driven. While I was working in the oil shale industry, we understood that the oil shale industry should develop in Estonia from extraction to the production of perfume. At that point, about 95% of the oil shale was driven into an oven, and the oil was made extremely little because the oil was cheap and no one had any interest in it. Right now, that percentage is almost 20. We have seen that there has been a rapid transition to oil production. We need to make sure we don't pollute nature. For five years now, I've been asking Secretary Parts why we're dragging these things away. We could have been ready by now for the power plant that we were just starting to build, and we would have produced electricity so that much less CO2 would be emitted. We'd be in a much better position now. I went into the details, I'm sorry! But my answer is, the less we drive the oil shale into the oven, the more we value it in the oil plants, the more we deal with it, in the sense that we process it, develop the chemical industry, the more useful it will be for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U224	Thank you. I ask you, on the basis of your previous answers and especially your dialogue with Mr Neeme Suur. Am I right to understand that your request, in addition to what is stated directly in the draft and which is a little understood in the explanatory memorandum, is that there should be a clear separation between the collection of resource charges and the targeting of this and other receipts for the improvement or restoration of environmental status? Would the money that would come to the country if your draft came into effect clearly go into this so-called common country boiler without anyone being obliged to use it for a specific purpose, in the interests of the environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U225	It is very clear in the draft proposal that the entry into force of the draft act is EUR 40 million: oil shale is used annually at 20 million tonnes, if two euros of resource charges are added to tonnes, it will amount to EUR 40 million. This 40 million is needed to raise teachers' salaries by 20%. We showed you where you can get that money. How the Riigikogu decides is a Riigikogu matter. Our proposal was that you see, the money is here. It took 40 million euros for teachers, and we came up with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U226	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U227	Thank you. Good waitress! I want to clarify my first question. Am I to understand that the aim of this bill, in addition to getting more money for the people of the world for the resource, is that it is making the whole sector run, forcing oil shale companies to make the most of it? Is this how we get rid of the old electricity paradigm, that we no longer drive oil shale into the furnace, but think about how to produce electricity at the most efficient cost of capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U228	You're absolutely right. I'm sure it's kind of a coercion here. It's not us, but we're forcing the market. If oil shale is more expensive, it is no longer worth producing electricity. So there's less oil shale going into the oven in Narva. It is clear that Eesti Energia can no longer drive this amount of oil shale into the furnace. It's kind of a pressure method, because maybe it'll use more energy in that direction to produce oil. The new oil plant Enefit 280 should be in operation in October. There's a very strong bond and a connection here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U229	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U230	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I sat in my room, listened to this report and then debated it until I had to ask. On the one hand, it is quite right that, as from 1 January 2013, when a free electricity market emerges, what costs the raw material, or oil shale, no longer has a direct connection to the electricity bill, because we do not have to buy oil shale electricity. You are well aware of both oil shale mining and electricity production. Can you tell me, if you put an extra two euros at this level as planned, will it simply stop producing oil shale electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U231	Definitely won't stop. The production of oil shale electricity is decreasing, but no one can say how much. It's not an emotional issue, I can say that on the basis of knowledge. I'm putting out the numbers right now. Today, consumers pay 11 euro cents per kilowatt-hour, the price of oil shale is about 1.5 cents, even a little less. I mean, 11 and 1.5. If we put a two-euro resource fee on a ton of oil shale, considering that the kilowatt-hour costs 11 cents now, it's gonna cost 13. I mean, the cost of electricity depends very little on oil shale. Once there was a situation where the price of electricity represented half of the oil shale and half of the electricity produced. It was that when the kilowatt-hour cost four cupcakes, the oil shale industry received two cupcakes and the power plants also received two. At the moment, if the kilowatt-hour costs 11 cents, the oil shale industry will receive about 1.3 cents, the rest goes to the state, networks, renewable energy producers, intermediaries, market players, etc. I think you got the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U232	Thank you. Please, the second question from Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I want to argue against Rainer Vakra, who is obviously misguided. The price is still determined by the relationship between demand and supply. The increase in taxes will not be passed on to the final price at the same time. That's why I'm asking. You said the same thing. Why is it that in countries with lower VAT on children's goods, for example, sometimes the highest prices for children's goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U234	To be honest, I've been a very bad father to my children, I haven't bought them much or dealt with these things. But as far as the more serious side is concerned, I do not share this sector or the trade side. Of course, I have my own thoughts about why these tendencies are what you said, but I don't want to share them here. Can parallels be drawn between electricity and the price of children's goods? We can actually do that. For example, financialists or economics can compare everything. It is always possible to find certain common features. As far as the price of electricity is concerned, we have not said it out loud here, even though it is a matter of the day, because we are talking about the price of electricity in relation to oil shale, that our country has done everything in recent years to ensure that the price of electricity in Estonia is high because of taxes that we have repeatedly raised, and because of network charges. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has allowed Eesti Energia to implement such a policy that we build nets from almost gold. I've told Mr. Ducks we're building gold nets, we're making them too expensive. We make them too good and therefore too expensive. For example, there are homes where meters have been exchanged three times under the influence of Eesti Energia. One round of switching meters costs more than 800 million kroons in Estonia, given the number of customers, I calculated it once. The meter will be delivered, put on the wall, and all this will go into the price of electricity. Such investments also mean an artificial increase in price. Now they want to make smart nets for Aunt Maal. It never pays off, and you can't do that kind of nonsense. Engineers like it, but economically, it's completely pointless. We've let the grids go, and it's raised the price of electricity. We've also raised taxes. The fact that we are going to the open market is clear, there is no way out of it, whether we want it or not, but the part of it is relatively small, taken as a proportion. Take care of the bill at home and see what you're paying for. You're paying three cents for electricity now, but you're paying 13 cents in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U235	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U236	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to be more specific. You said that the resource fee would be distributed in such a way that part of it would go to the local government, etc. In this regard, I would like to ask whether there is money for raising teachers' salaries. I've never heard of it before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U237	What I'm saying is, if there's money, it's possible to share it. If there is no money, it is not possible. Indeed, the Minister of Education has announced that they promised to raise wages and raised that this and so much of this 20% will be given by the state, the rest being a matter for the municipalities. If the Estonian state budget is bigger, it is possible to share this money according to how we decide here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U238	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Lembit Kaljuvee! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U239	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, For the first time, the Committee on the Environment discussed this very exciting draft law at its meeting on 10 September. The draft was presented to the members of the Committee on the Environment by Mr Rainer Vakra, Member of the Committee on the Environment. The government's position had been represented by Chancellor Rita Annus, of the Ministry of the Environment, who brought the message that the government did not support the draft in this form. The recitals were as follows: Firstly, this is a very sharp rise in resource charges, about 2.5 times. Secondly, what has not been analysed is the business climate and its stability. Businesses were undoubtedly faced with this proposal unexpectedly, and the implementation period is also very short. If the bill came into force as a law, the increase in resource charges would apply from 1 January 2013. Today is October 10th, as you know. It was proposed that this bill be rejected as such. At its meeting on 10 September, the Committee on the Environment did not take any procedural decisions; these decisions were postponed to the next meeting. On 24 September, the Committee on the Environment discussed this draft for a second time. By that time, the views received from the companies affected by this change had been mentioned here by the previous speaker. There was also a letter from the Estonian Nature Foundation. The responses of the companies were, of course, negative, unsupportable, while the position of the Estonian Fund for Nature was supportive. At its meeting on 24 September, the Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft to first reading and to propose to the Assembly that this draft be rejected in this form. However, the Committee on the Environment discussed this draft once again at its meeting yesterday, where it was decided to amend the Commission's decision so far. It was decided to propose that the Riigikogu plenary session conclude the first reading of Bill 234. The reason for amending the decision is that the Government has also submitted a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which also makes proposals to increase environmental charges. As this is a change of the same law and, at times, the same section, it would be possible to merge these drafts in the future. The committee decided to propose to the management board of the Riigikogu the deadline for submitting 234 amendments to the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act on 24 October. a. The last time they can be played is 4 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U240	Thank you very much. It's about Indrek Island.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U241	Thank you. Dear waitress, Here were questions to Lembit Kaljuvee, who is not a member of the Committee on the Environment and, officially, not a member of the coalition. Perhaps you, who you are both, can fill the gap that governs part of the knowledge of the members of the Riigikogu about what happened to this bill. I have heard that, in the meantime, they tried to convene an electronic meeting of the Commission in order to reverse the decision by doing so, they also tried to physically assemble, but since this was also contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, it did not succeed. Why the panic that mostly possessed coalition delegates?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U242	Thank you for your question. Sometimes life seems more exciting than it really is. There's no mystery here. As I said in my introductory speech, the position of the Members of the Commission that this decision should be amended was due to the fact that the government has also submitted a draft law on the increase in environmental charges. Since the issue in the Commission must and must be dealt with in the future, not only in relation to this draft, it was the idea that it would be logical to discuss these matters together. As a result, it was no longer appropriate to base the decision on the rejection of the draft law and not to deal with it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U243	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let's open the negotiations. Please, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of Karel Rüütel.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U244	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Democratic Group's initiative must certainly be commended. Thanks to this draft, both the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and the Environment Committee will be able to contribute to our national resource in the future. At the same time, there is an increasingly legitimate question as to whether our people will receive a fair return from the resource that belongs to us. On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that the country has made a tax peace with the social partners. On 18 June 2009, Parliament adopted proposals to amend environmental charges, which significantly increased environmental taxes for the years 2011 to 2015. Perhaps the law still in force provides for an increase in oil shale mining rights fee of 39% and a 27% increase in the specific water use fee in mines. In addition, the levy on ash and semi-coke storage will increase by 107% in 2011-2015. So it is not a minor question of what will be the future of our oil shale industry if the European Union continues its tough climate policy, which may turn out to be such that it will no longer be possible for us to use our national wealth in this way. In what ways, and do we encourage our large-scale and long-term investments, including, certainly, large-scale environmental investments, at all? Looking to the government, it now seems that there is a great deal of confusion and uncertainty in the policy of environmental charges. It seems to me that there is no clear long-term vision of the direction in which we want to move. How else can we interpret a situation where the draft of the Democrats is first brought to the bottom and then, at the extraordinary sessions of the Committee on the Environment, two times, partly unsuccessfully, try to leave this draft in the process? I would also like to mark that, despite a long-term agreement, the government has started to increase taxes on a large scale in the field of the environment, shocking consumers and traumatising businesses. One draft is already in the process of the Committee on the Environment, the other is probably about to come. Of course, the Social Democrats consider that both oil shale resource fees and other environmental charges need to be reviewed, but without in-depth impact analyses, it is very difficult to make fundamental and final decisions. The shift in tax deadlines also requires an important discussion with the social partners. Yes, the Committee on the Environment is allowed to carry out a number of analyses of the changes in environmental charges. We're definitely waiting for them. But when we look to the government, we want to see a more distant perspective. I would remind you that by 2015 the Riigikogu must have a new national development plan for the use of oil shale on the table. I hope the Ministry has begun this work. The members of the government should remember that the Riigikogu must be involved in this process from the beginning, not just for the undercutting of the temple. Looking at what is happening in the wider world, the trend is towards new technologies that reduce energy consumption, focus on clean technologies and try to control our ecological footprint. In short, we have no alternative to the development of the green economy. Estonia can certainly only win out of these processes. In any case, the power to hold discussions and discussions! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U245	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U246	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lembit Kaljuvee! On 24 September, the Committee on the Environment proposed to reject this draft. On 8 October, this Monday, this item was not on the Commission's agenda, but on 9 October the Commission decided that the draft would be supported and sent to first reading. My question to you is, what happened in those two weeks? Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U247	I, unlike you, am not a member of the Environment Commission. I can only guess what happened. I was wondering why these things changed. I happened this summer to listen to the confession of our former esteemed colleague Katrin Karisma that when he was a member of the Committee on the Environment, that time was extremely difficult and difficult for him. He went to the Committee on the Environment as a cultural person and did not understand much about what was said there. He wanted to be a part of it, but he was kind of embarrassed to do it. I realized that a person knew his business, but he was in the Committee on the Environment and had to take serious decisions there. Part of what happened, I would note that, unfortunately, we have been, too, in this situation, especially when I was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in such a difficult situation that we do not feel the matter being discussed and then either we withdraw or we make it clear to ourselves. It seems to me that, in the meantime, colleagues have made certain things clear to themselves. This is indeed a question of EUR 1 billion. I welcome it. That's how we have to keep going. What it was like, studying and teaching.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U248	Thank you. Please, Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U249	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is about the same opera as my colleague Deniss Borodich. In general, the more expensive the resource is, the more effective it is tried to use. As a good expert in the field, can you tell whether current users have an effective room and how they can use this resource more effectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U250	Thank you for your question. It is certainly possible to make many better use of this resource. It must be said commendably about users that this is the direction that has been taken when we take Viru Chemistry Group or Stone Oil Chemistry Combinate, anyone who deals with oil shale. But this movement has been too slow. We cannot blame these companies on this alone. We, too, in this House of Toompea, may not have done the most, we have not accelerated it. At the moment, in my opinion, the biggest shortage of oil shale is that knowledge is not under one hat. The four companies that have been mentioned today are all on their own. The science side is relatively fragmented. Everyone hides their men, their knowledge and internal competition, who makes Enefit and who makes benefit. I'm sorry for the expression. Co-operation would take us further. Some go to America or Jordan to sell the so-called half thing. Sold things that don't exist yet. That's what I've criticized from this remote control, not just me, but a lot of you. Although we have adopted energy policy documents and oil shale development plans here, we have shortcomings. It is the fragmentation of science that is an obstacle. We should take steps in the Riigikogu to bring science under one more hat and to push our companies in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U251	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U252	Thank you. I'm a cultural person and I want to understand things that I may not know very well. In your report, you interpreted the term'resource fee' or'resource tax' (which was used in both forms) as a purchase price that the company would buy from the public and carry on with it, largely in the interest of its profits. But on the other hand, it is an environmental charge, in the sense that according to the relevant law it is used to improve the state of the environment. If such a scheme, as you have interpreted, is correct, should the resource charge, or purchase price, not be lower for those companies that pollute the environment less with their own technology?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U253	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. First reading of bill 234 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 24 October 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U254	This may be the subject of discussion. Should it be done that if, for example, Eesti Energia drives oil shale into the furnace, we put a higher tax on it, but if a piece of stone is made of perfume, then perhaps we will charge less tax on it? It would be extremely difficult to dictate. There are two approaches in the world: whether the products made of this resource are taxed or whether the raw materials are taxed. There are very great advantages to the taxation of raw materials in saying that we are not punishing the company for its expensive production, saying that it has made expensive production and now it is being subject to a large tax. We give like free going that, boys or girls or men and women, do a really expensive and awesome thing, it's yours. We're not saying that if you do it like this, it's like this, if you do it differently, it's like that. You drew attention to the environmental aspect. We'll see the money, all right, but what about it? If you take the oil shale out of the ground, there'll be a hole. What happens to that hole, who pays for it, and for what? Our kind of philosophical approach is to put money back in that hole. My colleague Neeme the Great asked about this. But we're not really gonna do that. Where's the resource fee going? After all, there is a law that provides how to share it, which part goes to the municipality, where this money can be directed and what to do with it. They're all such nuances. The main emphasis of my report was that the problem is very big and serious and that it is a great deal of money. When it comes to nuances about how to do this, when I answer your question directly, I say that I believe that the resource must be taxed, but the other end should be free. Go ahead and do it! My message is that we're taking too little money for oil shale resources, we're giving it away.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U255	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The possible increase in electricity prices has also been discussed several times today when discussing this issue. Did I get it right that, according to your reasoning, the price of electricity is not directly affected by the resource charge because this price is taking place on the stock exchange, which means that all electricity producers are competing with each other? However, my colleague Aivar Sõerd asked whether a reduction in excise duty would reduce the price of electricity. For its part, the Estonian state adds renewable energy tax, network charges, excise duty and VAT to the price on the stock exchange. I have a simple question: if one of these four is reduced, will the price of electricity to the final consumer fall or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U257	Yeah, it's falling. If any tax is reduced, the price will fall. The highest tax is VAT, 20%. The excise duty is over 4%, the renewable energy charge is about 12%. If we add them together, we'll be able to lower the electricity price by almost 40%. Only where to find money instead of money? The money won't come into the budget. That's the answer. Yes, any reduction in the tax imposed on electricity will bring down the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U258	Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U259	We will go to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I ask Kadri Simson, member of the Riigikogu, to speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U260	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to this bill, we need to change the mood a little bit. While the previous bill was about increasing resource charges, we have come up with a proposal on how to reduce household electricity bills by reducing taxes. If the bill was adopted as a law, the real victory of the average Estonian household would be 15 euros next year. By reducing the electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union, to EUR 1 per megawatt-hour, we can, by acting in a legislative way here in the Riigikogu, soften the price increase resulting from the opening-up of the electricity market for domestic consumers from 1 January. When the proposal of the Centre Party, the same proposal on how to cushion the price increase resulting from the opening up of the electricity market to private consumers, was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the actual level of the price increase was not yet known. This is probably why the members of the IRL and Reform Party made the decision too lightly that the state does not need to use the resources in its own hands and that the bigger bills that people are facing from 1 January need not be reduced. The Commission decided that there was no need to proceed with this draft law. But the day later, the prices of the free market packages of Eesti Energia became clear. The electricity tariff will increase by 58%. I believe that, in this context, the members of the coalition have also changed their condescending attitude and are ready to continue the discussions on how to keep such vital goods as electricity in Estonia's circumstances more affordable. Detailed calculations are attached to the draft explanatory memorandum. The current situation must be based on the so-called risk scenario we have proposed. As the data in the table are expressed as a percentage, the 60% indicated in the last column appears to be most likely under the current circumstances. If you ask us why we are discussing this bill here in the Riigikogu only now, just three months before the opening of the electricity market, I will remind you of some history. The Central Party Group has been targeting the risks of opening up the electricity market and the resulting electricity at higher prices for over a year and a half. It is recalled that from 1 April 2011, the electricity market was opened to large customers. We saw that for those companies whose consumption was higher than two gigawatt-hours, buying from the power exchange meant that there was an increase of almost 50%. We have met the Director General of the Competition Authority, Märt Ots, who dared to say already a year and a half ago that the process of transferring Nordic prices to Estonian consumers will inevitably begin on 1 January 2013. According to the Competition Authority, the price to the household consumer will double. This was confirmed by what had happened to large consumers. Consequently, on 5 May 2011, the Centre Party launched a bill with the same name as the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. At that time, the number was 33. When this bill reached the Riigikogu in September 2011, the debate lasted two days: 20 and 21 September. Probably a year and three months before the electricity market opened up, it seemed so distant that the problem was essentially not dealt with. But we were helped by the men who, the day before the bill was voted on, handed over the same amendment in their own name. The coincidences in substance were very large. So today we are here in the Chamber of Riigikogu for the third time discussing how the legislative rise in the price of electricity for private consumers could be softened by the Estonian Riigikogu. What has the government done at that time? After voting on the drafts, the government has only said a big silence. Rather, the hand has been widened and it has been said that the market is regulated and the government does not have to do anything; it only accepts the increased revenue. It is true that the day before yesterday an extraordinary meeting of a government office with one item on the agenda was held, resulting in a press release sent to the public under the name of Juhan Parts, which announced that the renewable energy fee would be reduced by 15 to 20% on the proposal of Juhan Parts. That's a good initiative. The Minister has promised it for a long time. However, I would point out that the impact of such a proposal on the consumer is three times less than that of reducing the electricity excise duty under discussion today to the minimum permitted in the European Union. If we add these two measures together, the aid to the people of Estonia will be noticeable. The government bill, which has been debated in the cabinet, but has not yet been formed in the government session so that it can be handed over to the Riigikogu, has nothing to do with the way in which the production of electricity from renewable energy sources is regulated in the 11th energy block of the Baltic Power Plant of Eesti Energia Narva Power Plant AS. In the press, an analysis has already been carried out that, according to the new regime, the subsidy depends on the exchange price, the subsidy ceiling being 9.3 cents per kilowatt-hour minus the stock exchange price. For example, with yesterday's stock market price, all other producers would have received just as much support as they did so far. But I did not come here to talk about the initiative of the Minister for Economic Affairs, whose impact on domestic consumers is three times less than the draft law we are debating today. At the same time, we need to talk about the background. For us who pay our monthly electricity bills, the development has been remarkable. I noticed that it was discussed here earlier whether or not added taxes would increase the electricity bill of the household consumer. I'm trying to give you numerically what the charges and taxes on electricity mean in the final bill. I took as my starting point 2007 when the final price of electricity after all taxes was 8,1 cents per kilowatt-hour. Following this, an electricity excise duty was introduced and the VAT added to electricity was increased. Renewable energy and network charges have also increased. If we take the final point next year, next year the home consumer of Eesti Energia, who will conclude a permanent contract for six months, will have to pay 14.2 euro cents for the same amount of electricity. You had to pay 8.1, but now you have to pay 14.2 cents. As I mentioned, in June 2007, in particular, on 14 June, an electricity excise duty was introduced and set several times higher than the minimum rate set in the European Union. At the time, too, the members of the government could not say much in substance to explain this level of taxation. The day after the adoption of the Act, which was done with the votes of the government coalition at the time, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts attended the meeting of the Council of the Estonian Employers' Confederation. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, could not explain to employers which analysis led to the introduction of excise duty rates and whether such an analysis had been carried out at all. The Minister agreed that after a more thorough examination of the situation and consideration of the pros and cons, the law may require amendments before entry into force. But, unfortunately, the law was not amended before it came into force. The change came in the direction of disadvantage. From April 2010 excise duty was increased by another third. Why do I even stop at national taxes? But because, for example, Statistics Estonia has also noticed that taxes added to the price of electricity in Estonia are higher than in most European countries. I quote from Statistics Estonia: 'Like business consumers, domestic consumer prices vary considerably from country to country. The share of taxes in the price of Estonian domestic consumers is one of the largest in comparison to other European countries, similar to business consumers. In a competitive manner, the share of the tax burden in the electricity price of the household consumer is driven by Denmark and Germany, where the Danish tax burden is even more than half of the electricity price, in Germany a little less than half. Estonia's tax burden is close to 30% of the electricity price of the household consumer, a little higher than that in Sweden and Portugal. In most European countries, domestic consumers face a 20% tax burden on electricity. Less than 10% of taxes are part of household consumer prices in Latvia, Malta and Great Britain. VAT is also included in household taxes. ' So when Aivar Sõerd announced at the discussion of the previous bill that taxes would not increase the price of electricity and that the electricity tariff would be subject to competition, whatever price has been imposed by competition, the Estonian state will still include network charges, excise duties, renewable energy taxes and VAT. They'll be fixed at whatever the cost. Domestic consumers are under double influence here because they are also affected by the increase in the price of electricity consumed by commercial consumers, which is reflected in the increase in the price of goods. I would also like to draw attention to the press release published by Eesti Pank this week. Eesti Pank informs us that inflation will be most affected by the increase in energy prices in 2013, and that the rise in electricity prices will have a dampening effect on economic growth, as it will in particular reduce the real income of households and thus also increase consumption and domestic demand. Eesti Pank continues: 'The outlook for the economy will reduce both investment and demand for labour in the future. " Perhaps the fact that electricity will rise next year will not matter to the state either. And the country has levers. Most of the decisions making up the final electricity bill are those that can be made here. The increase in electricity prices is like a regressive tax. The poorest households can bear the greatest impact. The calculations of Praxis analyst Andres Network show that the poorer Estonian people are already going to pay nine electricity bills out of the 100 euros they can spend. Finally, I will briefly mention where the cover comes from for this tax reduction. Even when we defended the draft law a year ago, Aivar Sõerd resented the fact that additional revenue had already been planned for 2013, how the 2013 budget could be reduced in 2011. That thought was incomprehensible to me at the time, but today, as a Commission waitress, he could come up with the same annoyance here again. As a hardened democrat and believing in the idea set out in our constitution that Estonia is a parliamentary republic, I argue that the Riigikogu has the right to propose amendments to the budget, not to act as a pusher. However, in addition to making a profit from the increase in electricity prices, other countries believe that around two thirds of consumers will remain true to their current electricity producer. Thus, the largest profit will be made by Eesti Energia, but the Estonian state will also make a significant profit from the higher price, because the higher value added tax will be added to the higher price. At the moment, this revenue seems to be higher than the government forecast. The budget forecast of the Ministry of Finance stated that they did not expect a 58% increase in the electricity tariff, but were expected to be much lower. At the moment, there is already a significant gap in the state budget. Thus, it is possible to find cover for the reduction in revenue resulting from the draft in the Riigikogu during the procedure of the state budget. This would help to alleviate the significant increase in electricity prices for households next year. I therefore ask that the draft be rejected, but that this issue continue to be discussed, because measures are needed to help ease the rise in the price of electricity for the livelihood of Estonian people and the sustainability of Estonian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U261	Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. You have a lot of questions. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I ask the waitress not to put words in their mouths! I was talking about a price transfer to one. But right now I have a question, not about the price effect, but about the sources of cover. VAT cannot be a source of cover as it has already been taken into account in the forecast of the state budget. Your bill doesn't bring back a source of cover. Besides, you have miscalculated VAT, it has been done both methodically wrong and the amount does not match. The cost of your draft is EUR 24 million, but the VAT bill shows five million. Thus, VAT cannot be a source of cover. I ask you once again in particular: what is a specific source of cover according to your draft? You rightly said that the previous bill increased revenue, but your bill reduced revenue. What is the source of the cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U263	This bill was submitted to Riigikogu proceedings on 14 May 2012. Thus, the government had plenty of time to plan for a rational use of VAT, which will be more received as the price of electricity increases. It is possible to plan that this VAT would also be paid for expenditure that would not be incurred due to a lower rate of excise duty. So the cover source will be found in the 2013 state budget and hopefully with your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U264	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U265	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! You used the expression'made a democrat'. How did you, as a hardened democrat, accept the statement of our Minister for Economic Affairs after Eesti Energia had published its price packages: 'I want to stress that the general meeting of the company says not to buy my goods! '? That's what the Minister said. What were your emotions and thoughts as a hardened democrat as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U266	I want to believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs is not incompetent. I want to believe that he has also noticed developments in other ministries and has noticed that the Ministry of Finance has adopted the spring economic forecast, which states: 'Thereby, the electricity tariff will rise by almost 50% from 1 January 2013. " This great uprising did not come as a surprise, it had been anticipated. I interpret this as the Minister for Economic Affairs wishes to clear himself of the responsibility and, in so doing, does not want to take into account that the state budget receives more VAT due to higher prices. He is also likely to be delighted with the growing efficiency of Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U267	Ladies and gentlemen, we are still discussing this bill, aren't we? Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U268	Thank you, Madam President. Good performer! Your draft law proposes that household customers may be reduced by 4.5 times their electricity excise duty. But why do you not propose, for example, a reduction in the excise duty on electricity consumed by business consumers, which is also more than eight times higher than the European Union rules allow? This, in turn, would have a positive impact on the prices of final products, goods and services in Estonia as well as on the competitiveness of our companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U269	I agree. In fact, the same promise was made by the Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts as early as 2007. He said that exceptions to electricity excise should be considered. I also have an exact reference. But we found that opening up the electricity market would be the biggest hit by private consumers. In order to make this point acceptable to the members of the government coalition, we came up with a 'half' proposal to protect the people most hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U270	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U271	Thank you. You were talking about how much of the family's budget would cost electricity. But if, for example, we compare two households, a low-income two-child family in a modest two-room apartment and a much larger family in a large double house, which, if the bill is applied as a law, wins more as a sum, is it a poor or a wealthy family? Aside from this, which of these families needs more redistributive revenue from the state budget, whether in the form of grants or other such payments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U272	Thank you. I was talking about the analysis of Praxis analyst Andres Võrk, where the people of Estonia are divided into five decibels. It shows that the wealthiest people spend only 3.5 euros of every 100 euros they earn to pay an electricity bill, whereas the poorest households must pay nine euros out of every 100 euros available to pay an electricity bill. For households with the lowest incomes, rising electricity prices are the most difficult to bear. As regards the fact that the increase in electricity prices is particularly difficult for some households, 15,000 Estonian households are heating with electricity. For them, rising electricity prices may mean that this winter may have to give up other vital things. In Estonia, heating is not a free choice or luxury product; it is a coercion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U273	Please, Mr Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U274	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In fact, it has already been said since 2010 that, overall, the electricity bill will increase by up to 20%. If we look at those bidders who have already come out at their price, we will see that the price increase is within 20%. That's one. Secondly, if we look at the average electricity bill of the Estonian consumer, it is 26 euros. We will add five euros per month to the price increase. How much savings would your proposal bring to the consumer, given that electricity prices increase on average by EUR 5 per month as a result of the opening up of the electricity market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U275	Thank you. We now know the price offer of Eesti Energia; Eesti Energia packages are likely to become one of the most popular. We also know that Elering raises network charges by 13%. Based on these basic data, the final consumption of electricity by the household consumer will increase by 21,4% next year. The Ministry of Finance predicted that the final electricity consumption would increase by 16.8%. That is exactly what this price increase would be if we accepted the Central Party's proposal to reduce electricity excise duty to the minimum permitted in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U276	Please, Mr. Taavi in the garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U277	Thank you. The fact that a person belonging to the top of the Centre Party called himself a convinced democrat in the Chamber of the Riigikogu caused smilings both in the opposition and in the coalition camp. I would like to thank you for this moody intermission during the debate on such a serious subject. But I didn't understand what you were doing. You said that if one tax were to be reduced, it would be possible to get the money back with other taxes, that the state budget would not lose, but the consumer would win. I don't think I'm a very bad mathematician, but it's really hard for me to understand the calculations you're presenting here. Please explain exactly how and how many million we are in deficit or in surplus because of this draft of yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U278	Taavi Rõivas, you should be ashamed if you grin at it when I said that I believe that in Estonia, in parliamentary democracy, the Riigikogu has the right to design and change the budget, the Riigikogu does not just have to press the button by approving the draft that the government has sent us. That's what I'm talking about. In any case, the basic electricity tariff will increase as this will result in the opening up of the electricity market. This wins the Estonian budget because the higher basic tariff automatically also means higher VAT revenues. Not to mention that a higher electricity tariff means more profit for Eesti Energia. I would call the dividend taken out of Eesti Energia a hidden tax. When 6.2 million euros were taken out of Eesti Energia in 2005, this amount is now ten times higher than 65.5 million euros. Last year, EUR 56 million were withdrawn, compared to EUR 109.2 million in 2010. For the coming year, I did not receive accurate data from the state budget, but it is said that dividends generally increase by 2.25%. It can therefore be assumed that the dividend to be withdrawn from Eesti Energia will remain at least in the same order of magnitude as this year. So the state is prepared to take revenue from the opening of the electricity market through the dividend taken from Eesti Energia, it is willing to take income through higher VAT, but it is not willing to do anything to soften the opening of the electricity market for people. I think we're in a situation where we should.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U279	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U280	Good waitress! I'm always happy with the word 'cover source', that's so great. When drawing up the state budget, it has a clear idea that you cannot make a change that does not have a source of cover. The Government of the Republic has a duty to bring before us a state budget based on the laws in force and on the proposals of the Government of the Republic itself. This bill was presented in spring. Perhaps we should complement the basic law of the state budget by requiring that the budget submitted by the government also comply with the draft law already initiated in the Riigikogu, which is in the process? Then, in the context of this bill, this completely inappropriate dispute would disappear, the government would take into account all the drafts that exist and help us. We'd lose the question of the source.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U281	That's a very strong suggestion. However, I would point out that the questions raised about the source of the cover were not of serious concern. Exactly the same questions were asked here last September, when a year and a half had time to find a source of cover. There was then concern that the additional revenue from the opening-up of the electricity market might already have been planned into some plans for the state budget by 2013, although in 2011 there was not even a draft of the 2013 state budget. So this is a fictitious reason why nothing can be done to mitigate the rise in electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U282	Please, Mr Sõerd, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U283	Thank you. You answered my previous question that I, too, may be able to find a source of budget for this expense. As Eiki Nestor's proposal to supplement the basic budget law does not yet apply, I ask the following. Perhaps the Riigikogu will support your draft and it is really necessary to find a 24-million-dollar cover. But I would first listen to your proposal, which you propose as a source of cover, because the draft budget has been passed over and I think you have had time to look at it a little bit. Where would you find it, in the light of the draft budget for 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U284	Thank you, esteemed Aivar Sõerd. As the best finance minister in the world you ever had, I'm sure you know all the nuances about finding the sources to cover the budget. But all I know is that if the government can bring before us the state budget, which may also be in deficit, then the opposition of the Riigikogu can only make amendments that do not impair the balance of the state budget, and the sources of cover must always be available to us. Such a proposal will certainly also receive your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U285	Please, Mr Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U286	Thank you. I'm sorry, Kadri, you didn't answer my question at any point. What you explained about the analysis of consumption ratios was perfectly understandable from your report. I'll ask you a question. Do you agree that a wealthy family accustomed to a large household and a lot of consumption would gain more than less consumption in absolute numbers if this bill were applied as a law, say, a poor family? Are you okay with this? And do you agree that a poor family needs tax-collected, redistributive support from the state budget more than a wealthy family? Do you agree with these two questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U287	Please, Mr Dress, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U288	Since Monday, when the press release came out, I've made a new table for myself on what the price increases involve. It's a shame I can't show you this table right now, and I have to verbally try to pass it on. Currently, the basic electricity tariff is 3.15 cents, the network fee is 5.19 cents, the renewable energy fee is 0.97 cents, the electricity excise duty is 0.447 cents, and VAT is 1.95 cents. So the final price for the household consumer is 11.71 cents. If we use the energy we buy on the stock market as a basis, we can expect the basic tariff to rise to 4.99 cents. All the other parts would change, wouldn't they? The network fee is increased from 5.19 cents to 5.44 cents. The renewable energy fee has allowed Juhan Parts to reduce 15%, so if it was 0.97 cents, it would fall to 0.825 cents. The impact on the final balance would be 1.5%. Together with our proposal, which has an impact of 4.6%, the overall impact would be 6.1%. The Juhan Parts proposal will have a three-fold lower impact on the end-user price than ours, but together, they could provide some relief next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U289	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Simson. I call Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft before the first reading on 24 September. During the debate, the draft was presented to us by the initiator, the previous speaker, Kadri Simson. Lauri Tolumees, chief specialist at the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, also participated in the meeting of the Finance Committee. The Commission had received a letter from the Government of the Republic, which is available to you. The government does not support this draft and has given quite a good reason for its position. The issues discussed in the Commission are such an overview. First, the initiator was asked whether the draft complied sufficiently with the objective for which it had been submitted, or whether the draft would significantly reduce the price increase. There have also been questions in this Chamber today about the impact of the draft on the state budget. Of course, there was the question of the source of cover. One member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs noted that if the Ministry of Finance writes that the price increase is not related to taxation, the price reduction should also not be related to taxation. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was a question of compliance with electoral promises. One Member of the Commission noted that the evolution of electricity prices has an impact on the calculation of income support. That was the whole Commission debate. I wrote it down quite accurately and passed it on to you. The Commission took the following decisions: The Commission proposed to put the first reading of the draft on the agenda on Tuesday (this was a consensual decision), but the draft was transferred to today. The Commission decided to propose that the Assembly reject the draft at first reading. There were 6 Commission members in favour of this proposal, 5 against and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U291	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U292	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I thank you for giving such an in-depth overview of the Commission's debate. But I wanted to ask whether there was such an idea in the Commission that it was still a good draft, I would say even by quoting from the current Minister for Culture that it is a very good draft that could significantly improve people's ability to cope with the fall in electricity prices next year. Is this also the point in the Commission feeling that the reading of this draft could go further, that the draft could be made even better between the first and second readings and that it would come to the Chamber for the final vote at third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U293	Thank you. The majority of the Commission had rather an opinion, at least in my opinion, that this was not a good draft because the share of excise duty is quite small, 3% to 4% of the total amount of the price components, while the impact on the state budget is quite large, i.e. the reduction of state revenue. EUR 24 million is a very large amount. From the explanations of the initiator of the bill, along with the VAT wicks, I think, at least the more thoughtful half of us didn't understand. This also confirmed that this is not a good draft, because the EUR 24 million that the state budget is losing is a considerable amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U294	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U295	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Of course, the state budget needs to be balanced and it requires revenue to be found somewhere. The only question is where to find them. Rather, the question is world-viewed. I do not think it is best to take money from children, pensioners, hospitals, municipalities, etc. Rather, those who earn income could pay for it. You're asking what the source is. The increase in personal income tax of 0.3 to 0.35% could be a source of cover. Have you not discussed such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U296	Thank you. I'm gonna say, "I'm gonna need you to come up with a bill." I have not seen the advocates of progressive income tax also submit a proper, worth discussing bill on progressive income tax, even though the current composition has been working for a few years. Submit a draft that can be discussed!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U297	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U298	Thank you. Good performer! You will take a very high excise duty on electricity, which is, we know how many times higher than the minimum requirement of the European Union, and then you will charge VAT on the excise duty, which you will add last. You're charging tax. Do you think it's ethical?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U299	Thank you. I am currently in the role of representative of the Commission. Although I've never been a tax collector, I certainly don't collect taxes right now. Indeed, the logic of the operation of VAT is that all components, levies and previous excise duties are included in the VAT base. This is the case throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U300	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U301	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U302	As far as comparison with other countries is concerned, I was accompanied by this comparison when the Social Democrats presented an analogous draft. Then I introduced this comparison. However, since the Commission did not address the comparison with other countries this time, I do not have this overview with me. Indeed, there are Member States of the European Union where excise duty is set at a minimum rate, i.e. it is one euro, but there are also Member States which have several times as high as we have. The internship is very different. But once again, the government's proposals will certainly reach our tables in the near future. The reduction in renewable energy charges is something that we can certainly discuss constructively here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U303	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U304	Thank you. Dear Aivar Sõerd! I'll take care of one of your mistakes first. In fact, you were wrong to answer Mr Tarmo Tamme's question. You said that the Bill on Income Tax had not been submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that draft law No 97, which was discussed here last year and was prepared with the help of economists, specifically addressed the issue of graduated income tax. If you don't remember well, don't say so much. My question, however, is that you have announced that tax policy measures that distort the market must not be taken. Our bill deals with the reduction of excise duty. As my colleague Urve Palo said, in most European Union countries a lower rate of excise duty is used than in Estonia. Who's distorting the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U305	Thank you. I know one of the so-called 'Stage Tax Act' that we have dealt with during its membership. This draft amended one of the provisions of the current Income Tax Act, which is built on the logic of proportional income tax, and therefore did not comply with the current Income Tax Act. In this respect, it can be said that since it was not possible to implement it, perhaps it would have reduced the revenue of the budget, as it would have caused total confusion. If you mean this bill, I must say that this bill cannot be taken seriously. However, as far as the perceptions of the European Union's finance ministers are concerned, the decision already adopted in 2005 still means that fiscal policy measures do not intervene in order to ease the rise in energy prices. Even if there is an impact, it will remain short-term and will not reach consumers. This is the wrong way to mitigate the price increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U306	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U307	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You said in answer to my question that you had a superficial debate in the Commission. If the draft is in the hands of the Commission for more than three months, is it still not possible to seriously discuss this issue, which affects the people of Estonia very much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U308	Thank you. That question was not for me, because I only took up my role on 24 September. What happened before that, I don't know. But in answer to your question, the initiators of the draft have not included peer reviews or impact assessments, nor have they met stakeholders. There's a shortage here. When we talk about the price of energy and more specifically the price of electricity, this is a serious and important issue. However, our committee's debate was limited to four or five questions and a few comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U309	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U310	Thank you. Dear waitress, There's no way I can agree with you that only half the hall is thoughtful people. I think this whole hall is full of thinking people. For example, the Centre Party is helping to think about how the IRL can fulfil its election promise. That is why I think that, as a representative of the Reform Party, you should also consider the idea of a need-based excise duty. Maybe that would be real support for your coalition partner. But my question continues the question of Aivar Koka. Given the reputation of the Riigikogu in the public, are you not embarrassed to say that the debate on this very serious proposal in the committee was superficial?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U311	Thank you. There were several questions again. First of all, the election promises. Look, I'm not worried about the IRL election promises. I think that the IRL has either already fulfilled its electoral promises in a substantial part or is about to comply with them. However, I am concerned about the electoral promises of those parties who are in opposition and who have no chance of fulfilling their promises. But that's it. As far as the Commission's debate is concerned, I had quite a few opportunities to direct it. Me, Taavi in clothing and Eiki Nestor were the main questioners. Unfortunately, we also received no answers to these few questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U312	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My proposal on the sources of cover was not linked to graduated income tax, but I was thinking of a possible 0.35% increase in personal income tax. So much for clarification. But do you really realize what is happening in Estonia right now? I suggest you drive away from Tallinn and Viimsi tonight. What kind of Estonian villages and small towns do you see? They're all blind at night and night. I ask: is this the kind of Estonia we wanted? Does the fact that we are voting on this draft at first reading indicate our attitude towards the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U314	Thank you. I don't need to go anywhere far, even in Viimsi, the streets are pretty dark at night, at least where I live. Savings have reached the richest parishes. But I agree that this is a serious question. I guess these are the discussions that we are going to have. But this bill will certainly not solve the problems associated with the energy market and, more specifically, with electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U315	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U316	Thank you. There is, of course, the same problem as a 1% reduction in income tax. The young Social Democrats have made a very good flyer, where they say that in the event of a tax reduction of 1%, the Prime Minister will win EUR 48 and the person earning the minimum wage only EUR 1. However, in the event of a decrease in the electricity bill, the low-income household will have a much greater share of the money it has to use than the money it has to use for a wealthy family.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U317	Thank you. Once again, my sincere recognition for this innovative mathematics in answering, among other things, the last question! But you are very skilful about specific issues and do not take into account the specific situation, that there is a draft budget in which Parliament is, of course, able to make changes. I'm sure we'll make them. If the opposition makes constructive proposals, they will probably find support. But you have a specific bill that takes a very large amount of money out of the state budget. Please tell me what you're writing on the other side as a source of cover! We really want to know, because otherwise this bill will remain an empty line of words. We cannot, in principle, support such drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U318	Since you refuse to read the draft explanatory statement, I will read you the explanatory statement. Here there is a separate section on 'Employment for Consumers', and the following section also refers to the source of cover: 'The bill of law reduces the collection of electricity excise duties in the state budget. In 2011, the state budget received an electricity excise duty of EUR 32.3 million. (As a comment to the explanatory memorandum, I add that the government is currently planning an increase in electricity excise duty of about EUR 1 million each year. (K.S.) As electricity prices are likely to increase, electricity consumption will rather decrease or remain the same. A change in the rate of excise duties on electricity would result in a reduction in the revenue from excise duty to the state budget of EUR 24 million. At the same time, due to the increase in electricity prices, the revenue from VAT will increase in the national budget. The total electricity consumption in 2009 was nearly eight terawatt-hours. One third of this, 2.6 TWh, is used by large consumers who are already buying electricity from the power exchange at a higher price today. The remaining 5.4 TWh's price will increase in 2013, resulting in an increase in value added tax (VAT). According to the forecast (Table 2), VAT will increase by EUR 0,25 cent per kWh, i.e. EUR 2,5 per MWh and EUR 2,5 million per TWh. Thus, an additional EUR 13.5 million of VAT will be collected in the state budget. In total, the draft reduces the collection of electricity excise duties into the state budget by 24 million euros. The VAT receipts will cover EUR 13.5 million. The lower collection of the remaining electricity excise duty (EUR 10,5 million) can be taken into account in the preparation of the 2013 state budget. ' Since this has not been taken into account, it should be borne in mind that the likely return of Eesti Energia will be higher next year, as the cost-benefit assessment of Eesti Energia did not require such high-cost packages, it was not expected that it would increase the electricity tariff of the household consumer by 58%. I would like to add that when we initiated the draft law in May, it was quite reasonable to assume that the bill would reach this Chamber before the Prime Minister gave us the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U319	Please, Mr Palling, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U320	Thank you. Good Kadri! Since you did not answer my previous question specifically about how many euros each family saves because of your legislative amendment, I will ask you again. Secondly, I would like to point out that you have given examples of the Estonian Energia dividend here, but you certainly did not want to mislead consumers or the Estonian people, like all the profits of Eesti Energia, which make it possible to pay the dividend, should come from the regulated price of ordinary consumers. Eesti Energia still makes profits on the free market, which is electricity markets outside Estonia, and of course also oil shale oil sales. I believe you certainly didn't do it maliciously when you said that the higher price of electricity would allow a higher dividend. After all, Eesti Energia must start buying a CO2 quota on the free market to produce electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U321	Thank you. Good heir, as a member of the Estonian Energy Council, you will know better what dividend will be taken out of this company next year. But a simple answer to a simple question: the average Estonian household should win 15 euros per year from the reduction in excise duty to the minimum rate allowed in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U322	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U323	Before I ask a question, I would particularly like to point out to the President that this issue is strictly about this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U324	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U325	The question is this: did the initiators, when they initiated the draft, have any idea that it would help to achieve a cross-party consensus, thereby contributing to the fulfilment of the promises made in the elections by a party belonging to the union of power, the Fatherland and the Res Publica Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U326	Clearly, where you see the error, come and help. The IRL has indeed promised to lower home expenses. This promise has been followed by two years when home costs have increased significantly and has also been a huge burden on people on normal incomes. As I see that the questions are almost exhausted, I will conclude by repeating that the household consumer's electricity bill is made up of five parts. Only one part of them is the electricity tariff, which we cannot change under the conditions of the free market. The remaining four parts are controlled by the State. Elering's network charges are controlled by the Competition Authority. The VAT added, the renewable energy fee and the electricity excise duty depend on purely political decisions. If we are concerned about what will happen next year with the opening of the electricity market to the people of Estonia, then the levers we have should be seriously considered. It is important to consider the livelihood of people, not to implement the budget at the expense of people who may not be able to bear this burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U327	You have one more question. Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U328	Good waitress! If next year, it happens that the renewable energy tax will be reduced, which will reduce the price of electricity and which will reduce the positive growth trend of VAT, to which you referred, will you then withdraw your draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U329	Thank you. Dear waitress, My colleague Kaia Iva's question to Kadri Samson was that the wealthier households will win more than the less wealthy households from this bill, and somehow the desire to introduce an electricity excise duty based on a need. Is it the idea for the members of the coalition that, in a situation of rising electricity prices, people's situation can be mitigated if they start asking for excise duty on a need-based basis? The second question is: who do you think is the more thoughtful side of the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U330	Thank you for that question. This is an interesting idea for you, but I do not think that the introduction of a need-based approach would be widely supported. We didn't really discuss it. I think that the more thoughtful side is those who understood that the explanations of the initiator of the draft, together with these VAT errors, are artificial, incomprehensible and completely arbitrary in the context of the source of the cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U331	Good manager! Good waitress! How did this debate take place in the Commission? What have the members of the Riigikogu been elected to this hall for? 75% of the Estonian population will receive less than average wages and we are constantly talking about the tax burden not to increase. The higher tax burden is not only a percentage increase, nor is the increase in the tax burden. Today, I think a pretty good bill has been brought to the hall. Couldn't we have analyzed and discussed how to proceed? Which, then, is it better to pay more income support every day or to see how the tax burden can be maintained in such a way that people can manage themselves somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U332	Thank you. It was a long question. There was another drawback to this draft: the initiator of the draft has not made any further expert assessment of the actual impact of the change in excise duty, although it would have been time to do so, as the draft was already passed in May. There are no peer reviews and no interest groups are involved. Indeed, in the Commission, the debate remained rather superficial, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U333	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U334	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good colleague! You repeatedly said this was not a good bill. You've justified it with taxes. But did the Commission mention that something should still be done so that this price increase would not be so painful for people? Is there no other source, or could there not be some other tax shift, for example, to place the renewable energy charge on the second line rather than on the customer's line, and so still mitigate this price increase? Was there a discussion on this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U335	Thank you. I agree with you that these are matters to be discussed. The government has proposed a reduction in renewable energy charges, which should come to this Riigikogu and, of course, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Of course, we did not discuss this issue so widely. But I will say once again that these issues deserve to be discussed, all the more so as the share of the renewable energy charge is much higher than the share of the excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U336	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I understand that your main concern about this draft is what you also criticised the initiator of the draft on several occasions, as if there were no sources of cover for the revenue that the state budget is missing when it is implemented as a law. In a few years' time, your home party has planned to reduce personal income tax, which in the old currency represents nearly one billion kroons less income for the state budget. What is its source?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U338	Thank you. I listened when there was a funeral allowance for the debate. At that time, there was a great interest in what source of cover was still provided to the local government to cover the costs of the honorable removal of the dead. There was a very sharp question of the source of the cover. Since this was a very large amount of money, I think the question of the source of the draft was justified in every way, but unfortunately it was not answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U339	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned as a finance specialist and, I understand, also as a representative of the thinking side of the hall, repeatedly that the reduction from 3.8% to 0.7% is negligible and so small a sum that it is not worth discussing. At the end of your presentation, however, you said that how this draft can be supported if the country loses a large and substantial amount of EUR 24 million in total. Haven't you heard the point that whoever doesn't collect a cent doesn't get the euro? Which one is it, trivial and small or large and important? I do not understand whether collecting EUR 24 million in small parts is trivial for you, but if you put it all together, it is big and important. Did I get something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U341	In 2005, I was in the Council of Finance Ministers. I think it was in Manchester, during the British Presidency. The same question was raised there as regards the rise in oil prices. The finance ministers took the fundamental view that tax policy measures would not intervene in order to mitigate the rise in energy prices, because if the excise duty is even affected, it would remain one-off and would not be passed on to the final price. In 2008, finance ministers reiterated this principle at the ECOFIN meeting, which was also highlighted in 2011. To date, European finance ministers are of the opinion that tax policy should not interfere and, in any case, tax policy and other measures that distort the market should be avoided. At the same time, finance ministers have consistently stressed the need to promote energy efficiency, alternative energy sources, increase transparency in energy markets, promote competition in energy markets. Those are the things. In this sense, I do not agree with your approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U342	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U343	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. By the way, in the European Union, only five countries, including Estonia, use electricity excise duties above the minimum standards. You said that if the electricity bill fell by 4%, it would not be significant at all. I'm gonna disagree here. But as your thinking person, I'm sure you can tell me what is the better way to lower people's electricity bills more in the new year and reduce the high price increase that awaits. I'm sure you have good and constructive thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U344	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U345	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question. I am perfectly satisfied if you answer the question 'no' or 'yes'. If it is fortunate and the Central Party bill pending today is passed as a law, will the Estonian person pay less for electricity from the new year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U346	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In a previous reply, you said that the initiator of the draft had not met stakeholders. I really hope that there will be no MPs in this Chamber who have not met the interest groups of this draft, or Estonian residents. You said when you answered me that you were unhappy with my approach. I'm not happy with your answer. I'm just gonna ask you again. You argued, firstly, that lowering excise duty from 3.8% to 0.7% is a trivial matter because it does not change people's electricity bills; secondly, in principle, in the same sentence, you said that this is a very big loss for the country, because 24 million euros is a lot of money. A simple question: is 24 million big money or not, even if it has been collected from Estonian residents in small parts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U347	Thank you. EUR 24 million is quite a lot of money in the budget. It is about the same order of magnitude as EUR 30 million, which is taken into account in the budget plan (I think you have had a brief look at it) for the increase in the salaries of public sector workers. So this is a significant amount in terms of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U348	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U349	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you agree with me that the issue of electricity excise should be discussed again in the Commission and whether there is any way to cover the fall in electricity excise duties from the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U350	Thank you. Energy issues will certainly be dealt with more widely in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We are constantly discussing excise issues. Nothing can be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U351	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U352	Thank you! Dear waitress, My question is not because of the concern that we cannot fulfil the electoral promises (you were worried about the electoral promises of the opposition), but because the country has a duty to ensure that the weakest can survive. If we look at the state budget, which is certainly what the Committee on Monetary Affairs is doing, we will see that in 2013 there will be a significant reduction in the amount of income support. It doesn't make any sense. If electricity prices rise, electricity bills are higher and many people turn to the municipality to receive income support from state resources, how is it possible that the state budget for 2013 will have lower resources for income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U353	Thank you. Good colleague! I will also answer you, as Mr Palo once replied to me here: we are not currently discussing the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U354	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U355	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You are talking, on the one hand, about the opposition, we say, having limited opportunities to defend its drafts or to prepare them in such a way that they respond to all the complaints that the coalition can bring. On the other hand, you are talking about the fact that all the drafts, including what we are discussing now, need expertise and need a protocol that contains negotiations and something else. How do you assess, perhaps the right place where all these issues could be resolved, is the Commission and the Commission is the place where a balance should be found between the coalition and the opposition's opinions when there are such serious issues? Here I support a colleague from the IRL who has been in favour of continuing to deal with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U356	Thank you for your question. You're on the right track. Of course, the Commission is the key point where it is possible to discuss matters in substance and involve experts. The initiator of this draft could also have bothered to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance, for example, the same VAT calculations, so that the draft explanatory memorandum would not contain the errors that are currently there. Yes, if we bring a parallel here, for example, with the subject of the special labelling of fuel dealt with some time ago, then it must be said that at that time discussions were held not only in the Commission, but even in the form of working groups that met with the producers of construction materials, miners, representatives of a number of relevant sectors. This is good practice and it must definitely be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U357	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U358	Thank you. Dear Aivar Sõerd! Indeed, the draft has calculated that the value added tax (VAT), which is added to all four components, is EUR 0,25 per kilowatt-hour higher due to the opening of the electricity market. We took as a basis that the basic tariff increase is 40%, actually it seems to be 58%. Thus, the VAT that is added to everything is even greater. If we thought that the amount of VAT added to electricity consumed by private consumers, which is 5.4 terawatt-hours, would generate EUR 13.5 million in revenue in the state budget, it now seems that this revenue is instead EUR 22.68 million. Would you please say what the representative of the Ministry of Finance said during the Commission's debate on how much the state budget will win from the increase in electricity prices precisely because higher VAT will be added to the higher price?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U359	Thank you for your question. First of all, the estimate of VAT receipts cannot be considered in the context of this particular cost. You're not showing the cost of the bill, the source of the cover. The forecast for VAT is quite different. If you want to challenge the VAT forecast, challenge the forecast and tell us what is wrong with the forecast. But the representative of the Ministry of Finance, who was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, if I remember correctly, later specified the forecast of VAT as a result of how much the state will win as a result of the increase in electricity prices. I remember that the impact was EUR 5 to 6 million. But they referred to one of the inaccuracies that is still in the draft explanatory memorandum. You have calculated VAT not on the basis of the rate of excise duty that you want to impose with your draft, but on the basis of the current rate of excise duty. It's the wrong method. If you want to calculate this effect, you should have taken a reduced rate on the VAT base and not the current rate. In principle, however, VAT cannot be the source of this draft. See if you can understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U360	Thank you. The initiator of the bill has tried to show that this bill could significantly lower electricity prices and improve people's situation. Unfortunately, he does not, but the state loses much of its revenue. I'm not in a position to say these calculations by heart right now. Indeed, yes, the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal refers to the fact that the draft could reduce the electricity costs of the average household consumer by EUR 15 per year. I'm not sure that this calculation is competent, but maybe this reduction is going to be in that order of magnitude, maybe it's going to be so large under certain assumptions. But once again, the second thing is the cost side of the state budget. The impact on the cost side is EUR 24 million, which, of course, does not claim to be fully accurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U361	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U362	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! It is interesting that you discussed for a very long time in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on how, when you are in opposition, you cannot keep your promises to the voters, but when you are in the coalition, you can. But you are speaking, of course, exactly what was said in the Commission. But if you discussed so many issues in the Commission in such a thorough and diverse way, perhaps you will introduce what other measures, in addition to the reduction of renewable energy charges, you intend to raise at the level of the Commission, so that our people's ability to heat and illuminate their homes is at least equivalent to what we are now in the free market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U363	Thank you for your question. When I was a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs two weeks ago, introducing a draft of excise duties on alcohol, I think, if I remember correctly, the representative of your group reminded me that I must remain strictly within the framework of the Commission's debate and I do not even have the right to express my personal opinion. I admit that I may have gone a little out of the Commission's debate in my responses today. However, alternative measures, my good colleague, were not really discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U364	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U365	Thank you. If, next year, the price of electricity rises and the price rally of all goods and services starts again, heating costs will certainly rise, etc., how do you think the Estonian person will react to this? Newspapers have once speculated that an increase in electricity prices could lead to a fall of the government. But I ask you what measures you are taking and how you are still trying to mitigate all this price increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U366	Thank you for your question. This, once again, goes out of the Commission's debate. I'd like to answer, but I don't think I can. But I really believe that the reduction in renewable energy taxation is a very important issue that the government has prepared for the Riigikogu to discuss. That is one such question, but this list is certainly not final. As far as your question of inflation is concerned, of course, it does not make anyone happy. The IMF forecast published yesterday also specified Estonia's forecast inflation, which according to the IMF is expected to remain in the order of 4% next year, which is certainly not pleasant. It's a little bigger than our own, the Ministry of Finance forecast, which I guess was 3.5%, if I say it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U367	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Urve Palo, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U368	Good evening, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. In its pre-election propaganda, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union put the promise to lower home expenses while in power. Since it was a party that owned a portfolio of the Minister for Economic Affairs, it could be assumed that they really knew what they were talking about, and that they would be able to carry out what was planned later. The sadder this is the reality. Housing costs have increased by more than 16% over the last few years, according to Statistics Estonia. Electricity, heat and heating are expensive. And the price increase will continue. Taking into account the new packages offered by Eesti Energia, where the basic electricity tariff is 50 to 80% more expensive, and the 7% increase in the price of online services, people will have to take account of more than 20% of the larger electricity bills from the beginning of the new year. True, the Minister for Economic Affairs later stated that the election promise meant above all the KredEx programmes for insulation of houses. Unfortunately, it has to be said that by now, 1 to 2% of Estonian households have participated in these programmes, and this has been the case in the last ten years. This money, too, is now exhausted in KredEx. Whether or not and how much more resources the state will provide, is not known. At the same time, 98% of Estonian residents who have not participated in the insulation of houses have been disappointed. Home expenses will continue to rise and there will be no indication that the government will want to alleviate the price of electricity rising from the new year, not to be seen or heard. However, there are a number of ways to protect consumers and mitigate the rise in electricity prices. Over the past year, the Social Democrats have addressed the government with specific draft laws as well as with proposals presented to the Minister in the form of various enquiries, the realisation of which would have eased the rise in electricity prices. Unfortunately, everything has been rejected, including the proposal to lower the electricity excise duty. Today, electricity excise duties in Estonia are indeed 4.5 times higher for domestic consumers and eight times higher for business consumers than European minimum standards require. As I said earlier, only five of the 27 Member States of the European Union are using higher excise duties, including Estonia. As a result, a year ago, the Social Democrats proposed to bring both domestic and commercial consumption of electricity to the minimum European standards and to exempt electricity from excise duty from renewable sources. If excise duty were to be reduced from €4.47 to €1 per megawatt-hour, people's electricity bills would fall by a total of 4%. I say 'whole', not 'only', unlike the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let it be mentioned that the government's grand plan to help consumers by perhaps reducing the renewable energy tax slightly from the new year is, unfortunately, not significant, because we are talking about one, perhaps a slightly higher percentage. But four percent have a significant impact. However, it is possible to significantly reduce the renewable energy tax if we use CO2 resources... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U369	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U370	...to invest in renewable sources rather than force people to pay for all this through invoices. The cost of electricity for business companies would also have fallen by 4% according to our draft. In industrial enterprises, where electricity is an important input, this would lead to an increase in the competitiveness of companies in international markets and lower prices for local products and services. So, to sum up, it has to be said that a fundamental approach by the government parties to this issue plays an important role in curbing home expenses. Like I said, there's a lot of options. For example, is it important for the IRL, which has promised to deal with reducing domestic costs, to protect the consumer and to control and mitigate the rise in housing costs or not? We'll see soon enough. In any case, the Social Democrats support the draft. It is a pity that commercial consumers are not taken into account here and that electricity produced from renewable sources is not proposed to be fully exempted from electricity excise duty. But as Kadri Simson said, a good colleague, half is better than nothing. So, in any case, the Social Democrats support this bill. We hope that, in addition to the Centre Party, at least the members of the IRL will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U371	Thank you. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U372	Ladies and gentlemen, My attention was drawn to the observation of the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this draft law cannot be approved because this issue has not been negotiated with stakeholders. I say that the most important interest group for us here is the residents of Estonia. I have not recently met any Estonian residents who would not be worried about the opening up of the electricity market. It is true that the initiators of the draft did not involve one interest group, which is the government and the Ministry of Finance, who think that the opening up of the electricity market will only bring revenue, and are not prepared to bear any costs in order to make the price more affordable for people. The current situation is that electricity bills, which may be about one fifth higher than the new year, will come to the normal home consumer, and the state will benefit from this, because bigger bills will also bring more VAT on the cherry cake. We calculated that the opening-up of the electricity market could bring an additional revenue to the State of EUR 13.5 million, but we did not think in May that the electricity tariff would increase according to the darkest scenario, as it has now gone. This means that the State's additional revenue from the opening-up of the electricity market could amount to more than EUR 22 million. This will also generate additional revenue for electricity producers because they can sell energy at a higher tariff on an open market. This additional income represents an additional cost for Estonian households. We have the opportunity to decide that this cost for Estonian households will not be as high as it is if we do nothing. Therefore, this draft could be discussed further in order to demonstrate our desire to cushion the impact of the open electricity market on Estonian families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-10_U373	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that draft 233 must be rejected at first reading. Dear colleagues, we will prepare for the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu, 27 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 233 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The sixth item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 18.11.
