ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 5 December, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. Currently, 75 members of the population have registered as present, and 26 are missing. Next thing I know, I'm gonna put it on the agenda. The Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed not to discuss the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law on bailiffs at first reading 309. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U2	First, the first reading of Bill 319 of the Law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U3	Good morning, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. You have been presented with a draft designed to prevent marine pollution from dumping and to ensure compensation from the International Oil Fund in the event of oil pollution. The involvement of the public in the preparation of environmental plans and programmes will also be improved. We have proposed that the draft lays down the necessary standards for the processing of permits for the deepening and dumping of the sea. This should result in a more effective protection of the marine environment and a clearer understanding by sea users of how they can use marine resources. The dumping of objects or substances into the sea, as we know, is prohibited in accordance with the provisions of the Helsinki Convention and the London Protocol. It also establishes standards that implement internationally accepted standards. Ships and aircraft or other aircraft flying the flag of Estonia must also ensure that the country's marine environment is respected, wherever in or above the world's seas. In order to ensure legal clarity and certainty, the unclear terms and liability rules currently contained in the law are specified. The draft introduces an exception to the authorisation procedure for the installation of water cable lines and pipelines, where, on the one hand, the installation of cables and pipelines at sea is one of the freedoms of the high seas and the exercise of this right must not be hindered without justification; on the other hand, the sea must be protected from pollution caused by the operation of the seabed. In the case of cables, it is important that the broken cable can be repaired within 24 hours. The draft provides the State with the opportunity to verify the information provided by companies necessary for reporting to international oil pollution funds. This is important in order for the state, individuals and companies to be able to receive compensation from the fund if there is a pollution of oil in the Estonian sea area. If the information has not been provided to the fund in the required manner, Estonia may lose compensation in the event of an accident and the costs must be paid from the Treasury. The amounts may amount to millions of euros depending on the extent of the pollution. The draft has also proposed to extend the period of authorisation for the sale of drinking water which is not of high quality but is safe for health by the Health Board. The current regulation allows the Health Board to issue these permits until 1 January 2013. We have also proposed to issue permits during 2013, until 1 January 2014, i.e. until the expiry of the deadline resulting from the accession agreement. In addition, the Water Act sets out the requirements for public participation, which must be taken into account when drawing up an action plan to reduce nitrate pollution. Estonia has so far drawn up two such action plans and followed the same principles of inclusion in their case as are now recorded in the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We very much hope that the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic will be dealt with by the Riigikogu as soon as possible, merely by referring to the need mentioned at the end to issue further sales permits for drinking water provided by the Health Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U4	Thank you very much. Good Minister, there are a number of questions for you. Please, let's start at Enn Front!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U5	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, There was talk of the so-called London Protocol. This is a relatively long-standing but very important document. The convention dates back to 1972, and from 1996, the London Protocol dates back to the last century. However, a more in-depth analysis of the effects of the accession to this Protocol, as well as the protocol itself, is contained in the explanatory memorandum to the draft London Protocol Accession Act. I mean, once again, there is a situation that the draft, which we are discussing here today's amendments, has not yet reached the Riigikogu. Shouldn't the draft of today's draft and the London Protocol accession act go hand in hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U6	Thank you. As far as I can tell, speaking to the Minister for the Environment too, they are not directly related to the so-called 'dependency'. These drafts can be dealt with separately. If we look at this bill too, it is not only the London Protocol that is based on it, but its background is still a long way off.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U7	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U8	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I read here that Article 1 (2) of the draft adds to the basis for granting a special water permit for discharges of solids into the sea. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that the Decree of the Minister for the Environment intends to supplement the list of applications for authorisation and, accordingly, to supplement the specific water authorisation forms. Can you tell us when this regulation will be enforced so that there will be lists and new forms in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U9	Thank you for your question. The draft regulations have been included in the draft law, as provided for in the Code of Good Legislative Practice and Standard Techniques. If you go to the end of the explanatory memorandum, there are those draft regulations. I am absolutely convinced that if the draft of the Riigikogu is processed quickly, the Minister of the Environment will send this regulation, which has been written here as a draft, to coordination as soon as possible and it will be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U10	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U11	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'm sure you've been briefing yourself on this bill on water policy. Can you tell us when we made any changes to the Water Act before that and what those last changes were?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U12	Thank you. I certainly have not undertaken the entire history of the Water Act. That hasn't been my goal either. My goal today is to replace the Minister of the Environment because he is away from Estonia. The Ministry of Social Affairs also has direct implications for this bill, in particular through the point that I have told you about, the granting of health authority permits. That is why I was kindly prepared to deal with this bill. The processing of this draft is certainly not dependent on the previous amendments to the Water Act. What is important is that this bill will introduce the necessary changes. And I am absolutely convinced that, in the future, the amendment of the Water Act will be discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U13	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U14	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I probably have a procedural question. I have, in fact, an information system for the replacement of ministers. You can see here that Keit Pentus-Rosimannus is 4. He is replaced by Kristen Michal on his mission until December and according to this system. The Minister of Justice is likely to replace Keit Pentus-Rosimit in all tasks according to this information system. When did you find out that you were coming here to defend the bill, even though you were not officially replacing the Minister of the Environment under the ministerial replacement procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U15	Thank you. It is normally the case that, as far as signing is concerned, the procedure for replacing ministers has indeed been agreed. However, as regards the submission of drafts by the Riigikogu, this can be done in accordance with the agreement of two ministers. Since there is a direct concern in this draft with the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, one of the provisions of the Water Act deals with the permits granted by the Health Board, and this is also a point prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Minister of the Environment, first of all, turned to me to see if I could make this presentation for him here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U16	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I don't know how far you've been able to go with this bill. I see that some international documents are mentioned in this explanatory memorandum: the Helsinki Convention, the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, etc. Can you briefly tell us which direction the Estonian water management is starting to develop now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U18	Thank you. Once again, the aim of this draft is not to bring you here to the debate on water management policy. The purpose of this draft is very clearly to amend certain provisions of the Water Act. Among them are the technical specifications, as well as the exception to the permit procedure for water cable lines and pipelines, as well as the fact that ships and aircraft flying the flag of Estonia can be regulated from the point of view of the obligation to protect the marine environment. And I will say once again that the bill also allows the Health Board to issue permits to those water vendors who are all right in water quality, but who should be banned from selling water on 1 January, purely by law. We find that unreasonable. It is reasonable to give them an extension of the year so that people can continue to consume drinking water.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U19	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U20	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'm looking at bill 319. According to the explanatory memorandum to this draft, specific water permits were granted in 2009 to deepen the total volume by an average of two million cubic metres. According to the Ministry of the Environment, about 20,000 cubic metres [20,000 cubic metres] of soil was dumped into the sea. Do you have any idea what the volume of deep soil is in other Baltic Sea countries here in our immediate region?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U21	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U22	Thank you. I am very pleased that you have thoroughly examined the draft and not only have you read the explanatory statement thoroughly. I am only glad to hear that the members of the Riigikogu are working so thoroughly! You didn't find the comparative data directly in this explanatory memorandum with the other Baltic Sea countries or with another maritime country, and I don't have these figures with me either. But if you wish, I believe that the Ministry of the Environment will certainly be able to send you an e-mail after information from these countries, just as much as it exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum promises that, like the neighbouring countries and many other countries, it will develop the principles of its approach to the oil fund. It must be said that the question of the oil fund is, as far as I can remember, at least the whole period of independence has been up, once more, once less. That is why the question arises: if it has been decided to turn to the oil fund, why are these principles still undeveloped? Is there a deadline for these principles to be developed and, of course, after that, an oil fund will be set up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U24	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U25	Thank you. I can rely on data from the Ministry of the Environment. If you have the computer handy, you can get to know them later. The website of the Ministry of the Environment has a handbook on the submission of fund claims published in Estonian. It contains all instructions for making claims, including the necessary addresses and telephone numbers. I believe that, when the legal base comes into existence, there has been sufficient groundwork to ensure that all those who have to perform these activities are described in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U26	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! To begin with, I can assure you that we will continue to work through the explanatory notes and drafts very thoroughly in the future, and we will also ask very comprehensive questions in the future. Paragraph 1 (4) of the draft law amends the Water Act and also provides for the definition of "deepening" in order to clearly distinguish the cleaning of water from plants and the removal of mineral soil. The same section sets out the legal conditions for granting Deepening Authorisations in accordance with international requirements to promote the environmentally sound and sustainable use of water. It is as if these international requirements are still being transposed with the same draft. Why has Estonian legislation so far failed to meet international requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U27	Thank you for your question. Certainly, Estonian legislation has already met international requirements in the past, to the extent that has been necessary and practical. Life still brings changes that also need regulation at the level of the law. And it's certainly possible to write the Water Act more accurately right now, it's only positive. The question is, in the end, that everyone who has to deal with the deepening of water bodies can understand the meaning of the law and the spirit in the same way. The fact that the law is written more clearly and approved by Parliament together is certainly positive for any person who deals with the deepening of the water body.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U28	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Estonia has acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Helsinki Convention. The Helsinki Convention is also more or less understandable. In the future, accession to the London Protocol will also be envisaged. Can you explain for a moment what we have to face under this London protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U30	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U31	Thank you. As the first questioner, Enn Front, correctly formulated his question, it is coming up with a separate procedure for the draft law. I believe that when it gets to the big hall, all these issues can be more precise. The Water Act could now be dealt with and focussed on amending it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 1 (4) of the draft law complements Chapter 3 of the Water Act, "Types of water and water use' with § 151 "Determination of the water body'. Deepening is largely a matter for ports and is primarily the responsibility of the port manager. Failure to comply with this obligation may result in environmental pollution and potential damage to human health as well as to the vessel owner's property if the ship is damaged. Have port authorities been involved in this draft point as a lobby?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U33	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U34	Thank you. If you look at other points, this draft sets out more precisely the requirements for inclusion. According to confirmation from the Ministry of the Environment, the public is also involved in preparing amendments to the Water Act on the basis of precisely those principles that are now being incorporated into this draft. Whether one port or another was specifically involved, it is difficult for me to say at the moment. We should check with the Ministry of the Environment. But as I said, I can trust this information that the inclusion process has been fully public and transparent in the preparation of the draft. The Minister of the Environment has confirmed this to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I read in the explanatory memorandum that, when the regulation enters into force, the applicant for an environmental authorisation should have a clearer understanding and idea of the information and for what purpose the public authority requires of him as a basis for authorisation. As a result of the amendment, third parties should have clearer legal bases for assessing their legitimate and anti-law activities and, where appropriate, for defending their rights. Mr Minister, what are the legal bases that will become clearer as a result of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U36	Thank you. There are many of these legal bases. First of all, the law itself, because it lays down more precisely the regulations for both the deepening of water bodies and certain provisions relating, for example, to dumping. Secondly, it is certainly extremely important (I would like to draw your attention to this, as I said to the member of the Riigikogu in reply to Mr Kallo) that the draft regulations of the Minister of the Environment are the drafts at the end of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. The draft regulations are the ones that need to be followed on a daily basis by the people who are working on the subject. There are two things in that sense. It is, on the one hand, that the text of the law itself becomes clearer, and, on the other hand, that the regulation clarifies the law or the mandate rule that arises from the law, gives the possibility by means of a regulation to establish specific forms of referral to the minister. If you take, for example, the draft regulation on the submission of the report, here is also the specific email address to which you should notify (kontundus@kki.ee) etc. In any case, as I understand it, this is a situation where the applicant for a permit becomes significantly clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U37	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, First of all, a compliment to you that you will be able to give such thorough answers to another area of law. But now my question. You said that the purpose of this draft was, above all, to lay down the standards necessary to avoid pollution from dumping at sea. According to the Environmental Inspectorate, the problem in Estonian territorial waters is that substances or things are actually thrown into the sea that they want to be rid of?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U39	Thank you. I think it makes sense to look back on history here. As far as such major problems are concerned, even if not directly linked to the discharge, but given the losses incurred, and we are taking 2000 for example and recalling the case of Alambra, fortunately there was a solution through the agreement procedure. If we take years ago, for example, in 1993, an estimated 140 tons of oil flowed from a ship called Kihnu into the sea. It's a very, very large amount. If we take action last year, there were three companies in Estonia who had to make contributions to the oil fund and these contributions were also made. These cases alone, excluding marine pollution or the so-called wish to throw something into the sea, show that, in any case, it is important to deal with this draft and to give certainty to everyone who operates at sea, of course, also to the Estonian people, that the sea is clean.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U40	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I, too, would like to acknowledge that you have been so familiar with other matters. If the Minister of the Environment himself usually performs here, we will not hear such meaningful answers from him. But here's my question. Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft law complements the power to grant a special permit for the use of water, according to which it is the competence of the Ministry of the Environment to grant a special permit for the use of water for the installation of pipelines, such as Nord Stream. In the past, was it the responsibility of another ministry to carry out this procedure? Why is it necessary to amend the authorisation requirement for the specific use of water in respect of pipelines in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U42	First of all, thank you for the compliment! I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for the Environment would be able to provide even more meaningful answers to this draft. He has dealt with this issue for a very long time and in depth and could bring you the details of possible damage, for example, caused by dumping. I will now come to your question. The main aim of the text of this law is, in my opinion, to clarify. The regulation of water cable lines and pipelines is similarly laid down in international legislation. If you take the water permit procedure, which will last up to three months according to Estonian law, then it is clear that if we are talking about, for example, the water cable or pipeline already installed and there is a failure, it is not conceivable that we will have a deadline of up to three months. International obligations and international law need to be reviewed, which shows that damage must be rectified without delay. This also leads to certain differences and clarifications in the issue of a specific water permit concerning water cable lines and pipelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U43	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I got a little confused about the oil fund thing. I understand that there is an international oil fund established in 1971, based on the 1969 Convention, which was amended in 1992, and Estonia joined the whole thing in 2004. Are there two oil pollution compensation funds: one is international and the other is Estonian? What's the relationship between them? And is the international fund available without the Estonian fund? What about these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U45	Thank you. The oil fund is an international oil fund and must be paid into it. The contributions from the oil fund are primarily based on the fact that the company has received more than 150000 tonnes of taxable oil. As I said, there were three such companies in Estonia last year. The regulation of the oil fund is clear, even though it is an international fund, it also needs to be regulated at national level. The basis for national regulation has been brought to you in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U46	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U47	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is about reporting oil spills and compensating for damage. Estonia joined the 2003 Protocol to the International Convention for the Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage, 1992, in 2008. The Convention entered into force on us in 2009. However, in the event of an accident, Estonia may, despite joining the Fund, be deprived of compensation due to breach of its notification obligation. If, for example, there should be oil spills in our waters today or tomorrow, then the Estonian state will probably be completely defenseless, because we will be deprived of compensation largely on our own account. Can you specify who has failed to do this work in their time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U48	Thank you. Well, it's been a long history, hasn't it? If we go back in the whole process, it should be recalled that the Republic of Estonia has already joined the conventions you mentioned in the Protocolary Decision of the Government of the Republic of 13 October 1992, 20 years ago. You also mentioned nicely when the conventions came into force with regard to the Republic of Estonia. As we know from the past, we have civil liability for damage caused by oil pollution, which was adopted in 2004. So it hasn't been quite unregulated. Let's also take the previous cases I mentioned here, for example, about what happened to Kihnu since 1993. In this case, payments from the International Fund amounted to GBP 65000, namely for cleaning and anti-pollution work. In that sense, this responsibility exists. I do agree with you a hundred percent (this draft also specifies) that the notification obligation is critical in this case. In fact, this notification obligation is subject to special regulation, given the freedom to react and to inform both the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate. Of course, we all know that when it comes to marine pollution, time and who is the notifier are certainly critical. The credibility of the cause of the damage depends on whether or not it reports. If he caused the damage maliciously, he will most likely not report it. That is why, for example, we have control flights to detect marine pollution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U49	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is also about the oil fund, but not about the international fund that the draft talks about, but about the Estonian oil fund. From time to time, there is such a debate in society that Estonia could set up its own oil fund to acquire the appropriate resources to combat oil pollution or develop a monitoring system. Are you aware of the state of creation of this oil fund now? Is it even on the agenda? Does the Ministry of the Environment handle this? I understand it's kind of hard for you to speak for the Environment Minister, but maybe you've talked about it in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U51	Thank you for your question. Maritime law is undoubtedly one of the areas that is more the subject of international regulation. It is certainly much more difficult to regulate sea-related matters at national level. Good cooperation between countries and the recognition of international law at national level is a priority here. As far as the establishment of a possible Estonian oil fund is concerned, we must agree that you will either ask the Minister for the Environment for an inquiry or ask him directly at other times. Here I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U52	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I would like to clarify the question put to you by my colleague, Enn Frontland. I would like to ask how exactly is the start-up process of the compensatory measure taking place? I mean, there's gonna be a report of an accident with the tanker and an oil spill. So what happens next, how does this thing start to evolve?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U54	Thank you. There are clear regulations for this in Estonia, as in all accidents or pollution. Regardless of the cause of the pollution, pollution is dealt with according to the authority's competence. If it is necessary to activate the Rescue Board, which is expected to be needed immediately, then it will be done, as will the Maritime Administration and so on. Each authority has a responsibility and they will deal with the matter within this framework, of course there will also be cooperation between the authorities. If there's a flight squad to be pulled out, it'll be done as usual. The state's response is very clear with regard to all authorities and there is no need to make any distinction in the case of one or the other pollution. If the pollution is on land, then the response pattern is still similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U55	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Paragraph 1 (12) of the draft law introduces a misdemeanour and a penalty for failure to provide information on taxable oil or for failure to pay contributions to international funds. The maximum amount of financial penalties imposed on a legal person is set at EUR 32000. Given the volume of oil transportation, do you not think that the maximum amount of EUR 32000 imposed on a legal person is too small?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U57	Thank you. Punishment practice and penal policy are very clear principles. These principles have been sought to keep more or less uniform when imposing penalties. Always, any change in criminal practice gives rise to a debate both in society and in Parliament about whether the penalties are sufficient, whether they are too large, whether they are fit, etc. This debate is always welcome. However, this debate must take account not only of a specific paragraph and one sanction, but of the whole penal policy. I believe that the Ministry of the Environment has taken this into account when setting out these penalty rates, and has also spoken to the Ministry of Justice about the criminal practice and the extent of the sentence as a whole. I also believe that the maximum effective limit has been chosen so that it is really enforceable on the one hand and affecting the company on the other, so that he can understand the extent of his sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U58	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U59	Thank you, Madam President. My second question is also about the oil fund, but now within the framework of this draft. I understand that the problem at the moment is that the Ministry of the Environment is relying only on the data provided by the oil companies themselves when calculating the mandatory contributions to the fund, but they may not be reliable enough. The Tax and Customs Board database will continue to be used to adequately fulfil Estonia's reporting obligation. How does this change affect the work of the Tax and Customs Board? Do you think that this will increase their workload? Do they need additional money or human resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U60	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U61	Thank you. As far as I know, the IRS doesn't have a problem with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! According to paragraph 352 (1), taxable oil must be reported by any person irrespective of the amount of oil received. Although the Ministry of the Environment is required to provide information to the Director of the Funds only on persons who have received more than 150000 tonnes of taxable oil during the calendar year in question, the draft requires compliance with this obligation from all persons, i.e. persons who have received less than 150000 tonnes of taxable oil. Why does the Ministry of the Environment still want to collect more data than the fund actually asks the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U63	Thank you for your question. Here are the different goals. If we take cases relating to the Fund, they are clearly subject to a payment obligation. The regulation of the fund for companies is slightly different from the regulation with which the Ministry of the Environment wants to know more about oil-related activities in the Estonian seas. I think it makes perfect sense that we not only know the cases where the limit is 150,000 tonnes, but we also know the cases where the quantities of oil are significantly lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U64	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U65	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's nice to listen to you because you've made the law of nonsocial matters clear to yourself. In answering one previous question, you said that this draft law only concerns some changes to specific provisions and general water management, as is not the case. I note, however, that the explanatory memorandum states that there is currently no comprehensive view of the state of the sea in Estonia; it will be planned. So it looks like this bill is still going to improve our overall picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U66	Thank you. Of course, it improves the overall picture. Your question was about water policy and water management in general. They're still completely different things. If you go ahead with the draft and read it through, you will also understand that, of course, it aims to improve information and inclusion, to clarify the standards (as I mentioned in the case of the deepening of water bodies), also where operators have to report, what the notification procedure is, etc., plus the sanctions that your colleague Mrs Võsa mentioned. The fact that the law is made more precise, better and more legal clear is the task of all of us in this Chamber and in the Government of the Republic. When a law is made, everyone must understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U67	Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I can't give you a compliment either, because you have a wonderful touch on you like a foreign subject. But here's my question. Deepening in the sea is mainly necessary to ensure the safe depth of port waters and areas and shipping routes. However, in order to minimise potential disturbance to the environment, the need for and quantities of degradation should be planned and considered. The environment should be interfered as little as possible over the longer term. To what extent can such a need for deepening be planned at all, because the tides influence the sea bottom in constant motion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U69	Thank you. I can see that it can be very clearly planned. If we take ferry traffic between the mainland and the Estonian islands, it is very well known when we need to deepen and when we do not have to deepen. Similarly, when we take ports, no one is going to build a port anywhere without knowing what the environmental impact assessment is and what the possibilities of building a port are. However, if the ground is to be met immediately or on the soft ground, there is a significantly different cost involved in the construction of this port. In the same way, these same currents are affected by the fact that if the port were to start running all the time, it would not be very important and profound to start building a port in this place. In this sense, this planning is conceivable and feasible. I don't see a problem here. It makes sense to plan such things. There may sometimes be situations where unplanned dredging is really needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U70	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U71	I am sorry, but as President, I interrupt to answer this question because it does not concern this bill. Any more questions? Please, Heimar Lenk! Press "Word"!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U72	Thank you. Good Minister, I thank you for your very informative presentation. For nothing, some colleagues here made some comments on why you have one area or another that is not linked to the social area you manage. I think you have a lot of areas, and you could be a prime minister. Is there any truth to the rumor that you're going to be the new prime minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U73	President-in-Office of the Council. I have just watched what you have said and compared it with Mrs Ergma's recommendations at last night's session. He made it clear that the verbatim can be viewed from the verbatim if it is there, that everyone formulates their own question as he sees fit. Please allow us, too, to use this freedom and to formulate the question as it comes to mind, the mind says or we want to!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U74	Dear Heimar Lenk! I agree with you that the question can certainly be formulated as the mind says. No further questions. I would like to ask Annely Akkermann, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U75	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. This draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act is very wide-ranging. It concerns the dredging, dumping, discharge of water from waste prohibited in the Baltic Sea, the use and protection of the marine environment, the granting of special permits for disposal, regulations for the installation of water cable lines and pipelines. The most extensive part of the draft is making contributions to international oil pollution compensation funds, as Estonia has joined several international conventions and several European Union directives and strategies apply to Estonian legislation. As regards contributions to international funds, a number of procedures are provided for in the event of non-compliance with the obligations of the legal entities. The draft also addresses the public procedure for action plans in nitrate sensitive areas, as well as the issue of drinking water permits. I guess that's it, but it's already pretty much enough. The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft at its three meetings. On 12 November, a delegation from the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Social Affairs attended the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of the Environment Harry Liiv, Chief Specialist of the Marine Environment Department Agnes Pilv, Head of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Katrin Karolin and Chief Specialist Ramon Nahkur gave explanations to members of the Committee on the Environment about this bill. Harry Liiv also answered the question as to whether the contributions to the oil pollution control funds are parallel to the oil fund, which has been discussed both in the Ministry of the Environment and in the Estonian public. Harry Liiv says it's different things. This draft does not make a specific fund for Estonia, but joins existing international funds, or rather, honours the commitments already made with the accession. The second issue was raised in relation to the drinking water provision. Indeed, on 31 December 2012, several authorisations for drinking water expire. This concerns settlements where more than 2,000 people live. According to the European Union's Water Quality Directive, drinking water that is safe but does not meet quality can be delivered to people until 1 January 2014. Therefore, in those settlements and regions where the quality of drinking water has not been established during this year, it is possible to apply for the use of drinking water for a further year if it is safe for health. The Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft to first reading and appoint a speaker as rapporteur for the commission. The Committee on the Environment also decided that the deadline for submitting amendments could be set at 16 a.m. on the working day following the day on which the draft was closed. Yesterday, on 3 December, the Committee on the Environment decided that, should the first reading of the draft be terminated, the Riigikogu Board would be asked to include the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on Wednesday 12 December and to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading be terminated; when the second reading is completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to include the third reading of the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on Thursday 13 December and to propose that the Riigikogu plenary put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a law. All these decisions were taken by consensus. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U76	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Please, Professor Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U77	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a very instructive bill. I learned, for example, the new term 'conceived', which my computer is trying to translate all the time into 'inclusion'. There are other interesting things. According to the draft, dumping at sea is prohibited and the only exception may be dredging material. If deviated from it, it shall be a special case carefully considered. On the one hand, I was wondering how many of these special cases might occur. If dumping is applied at all, is it really something very exceptional? What would these proportions and volumes be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U78	It is regulated differently in different sea areas. We in Estonia probably have the most frequent dumping in the deepening of port areas and waterways. On the other hand, as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I heard that the soil was also moved to fill Muuga port. It's just like moving the soil. Let's just say that dumping from shipping routes and ports into the sea will be a second choice if dumping onto the ground, or pumping onto the shore, proves unreasonablely expensive. The need for dumping may still arise in the event of an emergency on board a ship when there is a serious threat to the ship or its occupants. In this case, shipping cargo, fuel or waste is discharged into the sea, which is normally not permitted in the Baltic Sea, for example. It may be permitted at some sea. I have also read in the press that aircraft have thrown fuel into the sea in some kind of emergency situation. This is about dumping exactly the same thing, i.e. throwing things or fuel into the sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U79	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U80	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I ask you, like the Minister, about the definition of deepening, what will happen to this draft law (i.e. § 1 (4) of the bill) so that there is a clear distinction between the cleaning of water from plants and the removal of mineral soil. It is said here that, as if only now, after this bill becomes a law, it can begin to deepen legally and in accordance with international requirements. Were our legislation still in line with international standards when some kind of deepening work was carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U81	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U82	The requirements are changing and Estonia still wishes to join international conventions. After all, pollution pressure on the sea continues to be high and prevention of pollution is of great importance in the European Union, as well as in the Baltic Sea. In this sense, international legislation is constantly being supplemented and Estonia is also preparing to join the following conventions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U83	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Yesterday, a number of draft laws of the Committee on the Environment were taken out of the agenda claiming that they were budgetary and it is vital that their content be reported by the Minister. However, this draft law remained in force. Hence my question: does this bill affect the state budget in any way on the revenue side or on the expenditure side? Do you have any information on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U84	This draft law has a marginal impact on the state budget and the resources needed to implement it, in particular with regard to the monitoring of the seabed, are foreseen in the budget. However, the deadline for issuing new authorisations for the use of drinking water is very close, as the explanatory memorandum states that 300 authorisations for the use of drinking water will expire on 31 December 2012. I think that the swift processing of this draft is precisely about access to drinking water and bringing it to proper people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U85	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! For the purposes of this bill, dumping is any deliberate discharge or burial of waste or other substances and objects from a ship, aircraft, platform or other marine facility. We are going to adopt this law, which is obviously well needed. But I ask who will, for example, carry out this inspection around Kihnu Island and how sanctions will be applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U87	Specific authorisations for the use of water shall be issued for dumping. Well, I guess you just finished the lumbering work, but there was still work going on late autumn. The fairway of the Port of Munalai was expanded and deepened. The Environmental Inspectorate shall supervise compliance with the requirements for specific water authorisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U88	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U89	Thank you. Dear Annely Akkermann, My question concerns the debate in the Committee on the Environment a bit more broadly. Namely, today we were to have two draft laws protected by Keit Pentus-Rosimitund, in addition to this Water Act, and a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Property Act. Yesterday it was decided to remove it from the agenda because, according to the Minister, the nature conservation law was so specific that it wanted to protect it itself. In the Committee on the Environment, did you base the discussion on the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act on the fact that it is not specific at all, it is a technical matter that does not require the Minister to deepen, or did you discuss it in substance? And why did this draft remain on the agenda without the Minister's presence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U90	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U91	The spectrum of the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act is very wide, as I said. It is a very specific and in-depth prevention of pollution and, if it does happen, a merger with the funds created to compensate for pollution. I certainly do not dare say that the Committee on the Environment has not taken sufficient account of this draft. We have had it in our hands and have been discussing it since 7 November. As regards the withdrawal from the Riigikogu agenda of this second draft, the Nature Conservation Act and the Amending Act, this was done at the request of the Minister. If he has a desire to explain and report the content of the draft himself, we saw no reason not to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U92	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a very human question, not an evil one at all. In Estonia, it is often the case that we have built ports on the one hand on the basis of location, but in the wrong places, where the volume of dredging is increasing as the sea level decreases. By the way, the first thing I remember is the Kuressaare marina, which has about six kilometres of canals, which basically need to be organized every year. Did you, in the Commission, also discuss what to do with this draft law in a situation where the deepening of the sea floor becomes irrational and no longer economically justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U93	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U94	Thank you for your question. This was not discussed by the Commission, but this issue will be analysed very thoroughly in the planning of ports. I've heard of Kuressaare's marina, but I can't tell you the reasons why this port was built there and the need for continuous deepening was not foreseen. Port locations have indeed been selected uneconomically. But there are other very low areas (e.g. Vormsi shipping route), which, in the same way, quite often need to be deepened, but there is no better route to take. The choice of port location still depends on whether it is possible to choose a better route or whether this better route is unreasonably far away. This is a question of port planning and it is worth considering very carefully, because dumping and deepening are very expensive and technically very regulated processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, As a result of the previous question, I suppose I have an opportunity to clarify. You should ask Kuressaare City Government about this. The fairway is not deepened every year. What is the subject of general deepening, of making the fairway deeper. I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U96	Thank you for that comment. The next question is from Thomas Tõnis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U97	Thank you. I was wondering when the Pirita River would be deepened. There are big problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U98	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Annely Akkermann! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Valeri Korb on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U99	In any case, the Committee on the Environment did not discuss this. I think there are people in every area who think there's a place in their county where they want to ride a boat, but there's no water under the wedge.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to the Minister and to my colleague Annely Akkermann for giving us an overview of what took place in the Commission and what the government is thinking about. But I'm going to add a few thoughts from this remote control about this bill and water policy at all. I have reviewed the most important changes in water policy in recent years. It must be said that innovations are introduced for almost over a year. A major negotiation took place last time in 2010. In the second half of 2010, the newsletter on environmental law states that the amendments were mainly driven by the need to transpose the provisions of the Framework Directive. The provisions of the Groundwater Directive, the Floods Directive and the EQS Directive were also transposed. Within the European Union and on the basis of the Water Framework Directive, it is up to the State to establish a common framework for action to plan and organise water protection. The aim is to bring both surface water (including coastal water) and groundwater quality to good status by 2015. A major innovation in recent years is the obligation to draw up separate programmes of measures as a basis for achieving the environmental objective of protecting surface and groundwater. I need to talk about another change. This concerns the protection of river basins from pollution. This is where we're talking about dangerous substance lists. Many things have been put in place by the European Commission. Almost two years ago, the Water Act also amended the requirements for granting a specific authorisation for use, which is one of the most important innovations to be discussed in the case of draft 319. Two years ago, the issue of a special water permit was linked to mineral extraction. This draft, which we are talking about in this Chamber today, is intended to amend the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act. We can be pleased that our country intends to contribute to the prevention of pollution caused by dumping of waste and other substances. The basic document was already adopted by the Convention in 1972 and further amendments were made to the Protocol in 1996. Once again, it is clear to all that the word 'coverage' is the discharge of substances or things into the sea for the purpose of getting rid of them. The explanatory memorandum states that this word comes into legislation with a new label, and who carefully looks at the amendments to the Water Act, sees that the wording of deepening and dumping is adjusted according to the terminology used in the Estonian translation of international agreements. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to point 3 of the amendment to the Water Act, which renews the mandate to grant a special water permit. Under the Water Act, specific water usage permits are granted for dredging and dumping at sea. However, legislative regulation needs to be complemented by adequate regulation of the authorisation of public authorities. I mean, it makes sense that the granting of special water permits is now, once this law is passed, within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. Some journalists called after we discussed this issue in the Committee on the Environment and asked whether these changes were related to Nord Stream. Let me tell you a little bit about history. I believe that there is a broader view of the future and the scope of application of this law. A little more than five years ago, no marine survey was allowed on the installation of Nord Stream pipe in the Estonian EEZ. Nevertheless, a decision was taken in Finland, Sweden and Denmark and the first of the two planned Nord Stream gas pipelines was installed in 2010. This year, remember, in April, another tube was installed next to it. We know that Gazprom has decided to further expand its pipeline network in the Baltic Sea. August 22, s. a Nord Stream made an application to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out preliminary studies in the Estonian economic zone, which is expected to be answered in December this year. Nord Stream was approved by the European Union, including our northern neighbours, with its previous work. It has to be taken as a fact. The next decision should consider all environmental aspects and certainly also economic aspects. You remember what business representatives say. If this law is passed in this Chamber, the Ministry of the Environment will be able to congratulate you for another great opportunity to contribute to the work done in the Baltic Sea. However, ladies and gentlemen, however good this draft amendment to the Water Act tabled by the Government is, the Central Party Group proposes to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, any further requests? There's no more calls. Since the proposal to reject this draft at first reading has been received, we must vote on it. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U102	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U103	Thank you, Madam President. The Estonian Centre Party Group requests a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U104	Honourable Riigikogu! The Board of the Riigikogu has received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act 319 at first reading, and now we will vote on this proposal. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft law 319 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 12 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the first reading of the draft law has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft law 319 on 5 December at 4 p.m. That is the first item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U105	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act 271 initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi! Please, Priit Tobal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U106	Thank you, Mr President. The members of the Riigikogu have been divided into the agenda, where we should deal with the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and Law amending the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic as a second item on Tuesday, 4 December. At its first reading, the rapporteurs are Minister Michal and the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Pomerants, but you invited a colleague from the floor, Yana Toomi, who should be the rapporteur on the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U107	Thank you, good Priit Toobal! You are late for today's sitting, the beginning of which was to clarify the agenda. I repeat this text, which has been read out, look up the verbatim: the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed today not to discuss the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on the Law of bailiffs at first reading 309. After that, I took a long break, waited for the objections, but there were no objections, and that had specified the agenda. Please, Heimar Lenk, did you wish to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U108	Got it. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U109	I want to ask you about the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U110	Madam President! With all due respect, I'm late too, but it doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter. Every member of the Riigikogu makes the decision to arrive at the time and whether to come at all. The point is that I have the agenda on the table and in its right corner it is printed 'Encouraged', from which I conclude that it should be specified in the agenda, where all the changes are already inside, but at the same time as my colleague Toobal said, the second point is the draft law 309. We're working on the document we have on the table, and your claims that we should have something else going on. Then indicate'Specified1' or 'Specified2'. How about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U111	Thank you. At the beginning of each sitting, the President shall be able to specify the agenda in accordance with the proposals made by the committees once they have been received. The Committee on Legal Affairs received a proposal this morning, which was read here. Of course, members of the Riigikogu are not obliged to arrive by the time the hearing begins, it is their free choice. My comment to my colleague, Priit Toobal, was simply that, since he was late, he did not hear the agenda being clarified. Everyone else who was present heard this clarification and no objections came. As there were no objections to the specification of the agenda, today's agenda was specified by this amendment and only two points remained. The first was what we have already dealt with and voted again, that the first reading has been completed, and now the second point is coming. I really have a suggestion that we proceed with the draft initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U112	Thank you, Madam President. You see, we live in a world where there are so many technical solutions that allow us to hear what is happening in this Chamber, not being in the Chamber. There's a radio, there's a television, and we think we missed out on something because we weren't physically here, there shouldn't be such a problem in the future. The question isn't that we didn't hear anything. The question is that we have a agenda on the table, it is specified in the agenda and whether paragraph 2 was accepted in silence or protested, it does not matter. There are agendas and we have to work according to what we have here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U113	Thank you. I have nothing to add to my previous explanation other than that the President has the right to specify the agenda at the beginning of each sitting. This clarification is included in the verbatim chart. If there were any objections, oral or written, it would have been different today. Since there were no objections, it is accepted, as the Rules of Procedure Act states. Really, I'm sorry, of course, that I didn't know if you heard or didn't hear through the Internet or the television. I don't have the power to be in multiple places at the same time. Since I didn't see you here, I was just trying to be caring and understanding that you didn't hear it. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U114	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I'm reading this great yellow book, which we've had to quote a lot in recent days from this side and that side. I do not find a place where it would be said when an objection should be made to the agenda. As far as I know, Valeri Korb, Vice-President of the Centre Party Group, is planning to raise an objection just before the debate on the item on the agenda. Where does it say in the house and in the law that an objection must be made when it suits you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U115	It shall be submitted at the time of specification of the agenda. After checking the presence, the agenda was clarified, which I read very clearly, and I believe that my dictation is quite good. Hopefully, the people who were present can also confirm that it was read. I am extremely sorry that those people who would have liked to challenge it were not present in this Chamber at that point, and so this point was left out of the agenda. Let's go to the next point. We are now closing this debate and moving forward on the initiative of the Centre Party Group... Is Peter Võsa a procedural question? Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U116	It's a proper request. Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President is over. Our technical options allow us to share such information at the moment: firstly, there is an indication on the agenda that the point has not been discussed; secondly, there has been a correction in the electronic system that will become visible after a while. Right now it's just a story that you can't visualize it in remote control so quickly, but it's made on a computer. I think it should be clear, we've been talking about this for quite a while. I have a proposal not to print this amendment on paper, because it will also have a negative impact on the environment if we waste too much paper. I see your hand is up. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U118	Thank you. I made sure that, in addition to this paper, the electronic version of the agenda also contains a code of enforcement procedure. Is there any way that we can get the correct paper on the table and fix it in electronic form in the remote control before we can continue the work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U119	Thank you. How can we work with a remote control that gives us false information, contains misinformation, and whose credibility is therefore questionable? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U120	Orally, this information has been passed on to you several times. I know that there are even oral agreements that are not written down, and they are valid. If the manager says it and it's in the verbatim, it's true. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U121	Thank you, Madam President. In your previous answer to a procedural question, you said that you were trying to be caring for us. Every one of these sentences makes me feel weird, it's nostalgic. I recall Thomas Savi. Why don't I have any complaints about him from the old Riigikogu, IX and X? Why are there so many of them now in relation to your style of work? I would argue that there was not much love there, but Mr Savi firmly adhered to our rules of procedure, our working arrangements, which did not give rise to such debates. I just have this request that you may at some point be able to work and follow all the formalities it requires in such a way that we do not need your concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U122	I'll take your word for it. Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U123	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I repeat my question, which you did not actually answer. What section of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act do you rely on when you say when you have to object to whether or not the political group is in favour of removing any points from the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U124	This concerns the adoption of the agenda, analogous to the adoption of the agenda. Why couldn't you finish what you were saying? Good question, I can't answer that. Why did Priit Toobal's microphone shut down? The operator turned off the microphone because you said thank you, and he thought you were done with your question. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U125	Any question or information will be followed by some kind of reaction. If there's no reaction, I'll handle it so we move on. It's not a first. I have certainly made some clarifications on the agenda from this panel before, where something has been deleted from the committee proposal, the rapporteur has changed or some other clarifications have been made. I'm not creating a precedent here, I'm relying on past experience. There were no objections, and we moved on. Please, does the Olga Stranger have a procedural question? Please, Olga!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Would you please enlighten me for the future? You said in the verbatim report that you read the new agenda, and that is true. You then said that you had taken a break, waiting for objections, but there were no objections. Unfortunately, the pause doesn't show the verbatim, and is this pause the right place to make objections? What do you rely on if you say so?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U127	Thank you, Madam President. You said there was information on the Internet that now there is a new agenda. I am currently looking at the Riigikogu website and there is no such information. You said it existed in the Castle Web, but we also know very well that access to the Castle Web is difficult. For example, there's no way out of a smartphone or an iPad Castle Web. In order to get out of this hall, you have to have an ID card on your computer, for example. I don't have an ID card with me right now, I can't access the Castle Web, I can only access the outside web, and there's no information. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U128	In fact, it is possible to view the Castle Web from the computer in that niche if you want to do it now. Basically, I agree that it is difficult to get a Castle Web from the phones of the members of the Riigikogu, and the proposal that this be possible in the future has also been passed on to the IT Department. It's a job assignment. At the moment, however, information has been received that updated information is also available on the external website. Now if you try again, maybe you'll see it there. Please, Peter Võsa next!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U129	Thank you. There's nothing wrong with these remotes like you generalized. The microphone was switched off after the word "thank you." Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U130	Thank you. Actually, there must be something wrong with these remotes on this table when the microphones shut down and the information that's here is wrong. Perhaps it would take a break, however, for all members of the Riigikogu to check the computer for what the situation is now, and this dispute will end here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U131	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Unlike other colleagues, I am not such a user of information technology, so I am not participating in e-elections, for example. I would rather trust paper-based materials, and I would therefore like to see the yellow paper agenda, with the right information, the right waiters and agenda items distributed on the table. I think it is appropriate for the Riigikogu to have its own Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, and I think it is appropriate for the President of the sitting to take a break and the matter is arranged.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U132	Thank you for this proposal. Really, at this point only the manager can take a break. However, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to waste paper in our e-century. Would you be able to trust the manager's words and, second, look it up on the Internet? That computer in the niche isn't too far away. Perhaps you can look it up on the Internet, because this information is on the external website of the Riigikogu as well as on the Castle Web. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U133	Still about the same important thing. It seems to me, Mr President-in-Office, that you are wasting dear time in Parliament. We could have printed this piece of paper a long time ago, and everything would have been fine, now we've been talking for half an hour and we haven't achieved anything, period one. Secondly, you say that we are destroying the green environment. In the future, aren't we going to have these papers on the table and we're going to work electronically? Perhaps we should give up the paper at all and start working in the Riigikogu on electronic taboo, so we can save even more forest? Perhaps you could put it on the board's agenda for discussion? Discuss and stop wasting it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U134	Thank you. In this respect, I fully agree. I have proposed several times that we stop sharing information on paper, because there are, in fact, sufficient technical possibilities to obtain information online. Ladies and gentlemen, we have really spent a great deal of time on technical issues. By now, all the clarifications have been legally made on the electronic agenda. I have a suggestion that we move forward with the work. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U135	Thank you. We would be happy to accept your proposal if you would accept our proposal. Environmental friendliness is certainly very important, and it is especially nice that the members of the Board of the Riigikogu respect it. However, I repeat my wish to have the agenda printed on yellow paper on the desk of my member of the Riigikogu, which corresponds to reality. There are three agenda items on my desk today, Tuesday, 4 December. The second point is the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is proposed by Kristen Michal and Marko Pomerants. You invited Yana Toomi, who should be present on the third agenda item entitled 'A draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group'. It's like you're saying that this agenda isn't true. There's a yellow paper on my desk that shows something else. Can I at least have a different yellow paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U136	The chairman's seven-minute break is over. I see Mikhail Stalnukhin has his hand up. Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U137	Very good. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber? Please give a hand to the number of people who would like to receive today's revised agenda on paper. Put your hands up, please! One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Okay. Seven minutes' break, and then there's only ten papers on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U138	Thank you very much. This procedure was certainly not a vote. I asked you to give me a hand to tell me who wants to get paper material. Nor is it a choir issue. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U139	Madam President! Now it's getting serious. This is indeed a procedural and very serious question. I'll tell those who were absent from the hall, what was the situation? There's a trial going on. Maybe the manager's gonna ask, "Who wants some?" I'll put it to a vote. 'Hands rising. Calculates. Where are our domestic and operational procedures legalized? Does this make it possible to vote at random in the Chamber? For example, the Reform Party, who wants to order a pizza, give me a hand! And so on. This vote, which was carried out, is completely contrary to our home and working procedures. Madam President, you are a very good conductor, but the sooner you admit that we are not a choir, we cannot improvise with a stick here, we need to know how to work, the better for you personally.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U140	Anyone who wishes to receive a specific agenda in paper form. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U141	Thank you. Don't turn off the microphone, I haven't been able to ask you a question yet! I cannot tolerate such an unequal situation. I've seen 75 people who are currently in attendance, but only ten of them will be handed out these yellow papers with a new agenda. I think everyone should be treated equally and shared.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U142	Thank you, Mr President. This new yellow paper, I am grateful to you for resolving this issue in such an operational manner, for the whole of half an hour. But here is the title: the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu 3. Agenda of 31 December 2012. And then it says Tuesday. Does this mean that the Wednesday and Thursday sessions will be suspended, and there will be no questions on the agenda? The heading states very clearly that 3. December, but only the agenda of 4 December was distributed. Are there no meetings on 5 and 6 December and the agenda has changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U143	Thank you for that wonderful question. The deal was that you'll only be printed out today's revised agenda. As the agenda for the next days has not been changed, you will be able to obtain this information from the paper already distributed to you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U144	Thank you, Madam President. I realized, however, that we were going to have a new agenda printed out. At least it says on this yellow paper that it concerns dates 3 to 6. December. This is a new, updated agenda based on the title of this paper. 3.1 to 6. Until December, our work will only take place on Tuesday, so I can understand the paper. What the other members of the Riigikogu think, I don't know at all because they don't even have this paper. The story's getting messy. Is there no way that things can be fixed in the same way for everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U145	I am extremely sorry that, despite multiple explanations, you do not want to understand. In fact, I think it is a question of picking at the moment. This week there is a Tuesday session, it is now and now, its agenda has been updated, rightly amended. You asked for more information about today because you couldn't go to the Castle Web or the Internet, didn't have access to information that was electronic. That is why we agreed here that you will receive a revised agenda for Tuesday on paper so that it would be black in white before you. When thinking particularly about the environmental issue, it seems to me that there is no point in reprinting this material that does not change, which already exists on your tables. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we do not have a very constructive debate here at the moment. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U146	Thank you, Mr President. I completely agree with you that my question was very nice. But in addition, it was very substantive. The yellow papers that are distributed on the boards of the MPs, and not only the yellow papers, but also the same grey papers that we take from behind the shelves, are documents. That yellow paper you just distributed is a document. The agenda is a document within the meaning of the Riigikogu's rules of procedure. This document bears the wrong title '3. Agenda of 4 December 2012' because you only distributed the agenda for 4 December. Does that mean that s. a There will be no meeting on 5 December and 6 December, and the President will be those items that had been removed from the agenda for some reason from the previous agenda, which was approved on Monday, and now is the place where we can make an argument that we do not agree with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U147	Absolutely not. You've got it all wrong. Meetings will be held tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, according to the agenda. They certainly have not been canceled or changed. If there are any changes, they shall be read by the President of tomorrow's sitting and by the Chair of the agenda. Right now, all I'm talking about is today's agenda. As far as I know, the next sessions of this week will take place on the agenda. Please, let's move on with our work! To be honest, all these questions have already been answered several times. Valeri Korb has a question. I'll give the floor to Valeri Korb in the meantime. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U148	Thank you, Madam President. I listened carefully to what my colleagues said. For the record, on 4 December at 11.58 a faction of the Centre Party is opposed to the first reading of item 2, which had been approved on 3 December at 15 p.m., of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law amending the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic, being removed from today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U149	Thank you very much. I have the following suggestion: in order to bring these disputes to an end, I declare the first reading of Section 2, the Act on Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law of the bailiff 309. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal! [[Break.]] Kristen Michal doesn't come to the chair, so it's impossible to discuss this point. Let's move to the next point. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act and we are moving forward. Please, third point! [[Interjections from the floor.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the law on state legal aid initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. I ask for a chair of speech for a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi. Please, Yana!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U150	I have a procedural question. We've just been divided here by one agenda, which consists of two points, and you've turned it into three points on the run. What did you rely on, what is this passage and provision of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U151	I was based on the fact that we were unable to move forward, because the Central Party Group caused a lot of confusion and problems with regard to the fact that this second point has been left out and you were unable to protest against it at the right moment. I believe that there is a deliberate obstruction of the work of the Riigikogu. I have a proposal to get back to work. Please, Yana Toom, would you like to come forward with a draft that your group has initiated? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U152	Thank you, Mr President. I agree, it's kind of a mess now. Which agenda are we working on? There are two yellow papers on my desk. One piece of paper says 'Tuesday, December 4' and there are three items on the agenda. The second yellow paper, which was distributed some time later, is also on Tuesday, 4 December, and contains two items on the agenda. At the beginning of the sitting, you started with this yellow paper with two items on the agenda and did not invite Kristen Michal to defend the bill 309. Some time later, you called out Kristen Michal, although his protected bill is not on the agenda. As President of the sitting, do you understand what kind of sitting you are chairing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U153	What item would you like to discuss now? Ladies and gentlemen, please let us close this unconstructive debate now. It is obvious that this is a mockery. There hasn't been any violations. At the beginning of the sitting, the President stated that an amendment had been made to the agenda. The next thing that happened was that you were dissatisfied at the moment that I went to the second item on the agenda that was agreed today. Then you were dissatisfied that the change would not be seen electronically. This revised agenda is now in place electronically. You then requested that you have a paper version of the amendment, because you would not be able to receive this material electronically. You were given this paper so that you can read this information in paper form. You continued to be dissatisfied because you wanted to know whether the meetings will also take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow this week. All the questions have been answered. You can read all the material from the Steinogram, all the information is available on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a suggestion: let us continue the sitting. This debate is not constructive at the moment. As President, I take the right to continue the hearing. The procedural questions are now over. Please, Yana Toom, your call time is running!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U154	Ladies and gentlemen, I am confused. I don't know if the remote can ask procedural questions, but I really do have one question. How can I now begin to introduce my bill when I see at least three hands up in the hall to ask procedural questions? I would like to know, Mr President-in-Office, which paragraph of the Rules of Procedure you are relying on if you do not give the floor to colleagues who would like to ask a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U155	I'm about to read you this section. § 72 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act: 'The President of the sitting proposes that the speeches be closed. ' Please, the basis is § 72. We'll continue the trial. [[Interjections from the floor.]] The procedural question is currently treated as a similar speech. Please, let's continue the trial. We'll ask you questions later. Yana Toom, please continue your report! Okay, the last three procedural questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U156	I'd like to ask you one thing. Which agenda do we work on today? On the basis of what rights did you call the Minister when this point was voted out at the beginning of the sitting? Which points of the law do you propose to call the Minister, after that point was taken out at the beginning? So is this point in or out? I have a feeling you're writing yourself into history today, Madam President.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U157	Dear colleague, we are moving forward according to the way it was approved. I am extremely sorry that, in the meantime, I had to ask Kristen Michal out to prove to you that it is not possible to discuss this point. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U158	Thank you, Madam President. I have this procedural question. You don't want to, you don't want to understand why we're asking questions. The Riigikogu, this hall, is the last place on the island of democracy, where we all have to abide by the law. Until you memorize our law on home and working procedures before you start following it, neither can we abandon the work we are doing here. We defend Estonian democracy. As the Auditor General said yesterday, the law is being violated, but it is being done in ministries. Do not imitate them! One day, start working according to the rules! My question: where is the law on home and working arrangements such as the agreement you talked about? What agreement can the chairman have with members of the Riigikogu? Please tell me what the deal is in this hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U159	Ladies and gentlemen, All the questions have now been answered. I have explained to you very carefully everything you have asked for. Let's keep going. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U160	Thank you, Mr President. First for a comment. You don't want to give us the floor for procedural questions. Under no circumstances does this fall under § 72, which talks about the speeches to be discussed on the agenda. The procedural issues are dealt with by § 74 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. But here's the question. During the discussion of the draft law, you called on Kristen Michal to report a draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law on bailiffs. Kristen Michal didn't show up on the remote. Does this mean that this bill has fallen out of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U161	The debate on this draft will be postponed to the next week. Please, Yana Toom, 20 minutes from the beginning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, Our discussions have recently gone into some kind of great depth and, in fact, I think it is very welcome, it is worth taking into consideration. Today, I will explain to you our wish to amend the Law on State Legal Aid so that Russian-speaking Estonian residents will also have the opportunity to apply for free legal aid from the state in their own language, Russian. But first let me talk about the problem. The problem is that the Law on Legal Aid provides: 'The application for state legal aid is submitted in Estonian. The application may also be made in English if the legal aid is requested by a natural person residing in another Member State of the European Union or who is a national of another Member State of the European Union, or by a legal person established in another Member State of the European Union. The application forwarded to the court in another language shall be returned. ' Such wording precludes the application from being made in other languages, such as Russian, although, according to Statistics Estonia, 97% of Estonians regard Estonian or Russian as their native language. For example, in its order of 24 April 2008, the Supreme Court found that the application for legal aid in Russian should be dismissed and returned to the author because it did not meet the formal requirements of § 12 (5) of the Legal Aid Act. The regulation essentially means that a court may deprive a less insured person who does not have sufficient knowledge of the Estonian language of the protection of the court and of the right to challenge a judgment given against him because he is unable to submit an application for legal aid from the state in Estonian. I will explain what this language requirement is coming from. According to § 12 (5) of the State Legal Aid Act, the application for legal aid is submitted in Estonian. The application may also be in English for citizens of the Member States of the European Union or for legal persons who do not necessarily have to live or stay in Estonia. In essence, it is also a matter of cross-border disputes, then the Estonian judicial system allows us to ask for state aid in English. Applications shall be returned in another language. The language requirement is primarily derived from § 6 of the Constitution, according to which the official language of Estonia is Estonian, but the Member States provide free legal aid without discrimination to Union citizens and third-country nationals residing legally in the territory of a Member State. This is due to Article 4 of Council Directive 2003/8/EC of 27 January 2003. Legal aid shall be granted to a person who does not have sufficient resources to the extent that he or she is able to apply to the courts. This follows from Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The following provision states that every accused person has at least the right to 'protect himself or through a lawyer of his choice' or to obtain legal aid if the interests of justice so require and the accused does not have sufficient means to pay for legal aid'. This requirement, in turn, follows from Article 6 (3) (c) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The obligation of the Republic of Estonia to provide state legal aid results from the combined effect of §§ 12, 13, 15 and 28 of the Constitution. Under the Constitution, the state must treat everyone before the law as equal and offer everyone an equal opportunity to obtain the protection of the law and the state, including the possibility of recourse to the courts to defend their rights. This right also ensures that aid is available in the event of a shortage. In addition, the Supreme Court has said that § 28 (2) of the Constitution implies the right of a person to receive not just assistance but sufficient assistance. Persons must be able to defend their rights before the courts even if their wealth does not allow them to bear the costs of the proceedings. Legal aid is considered appropriate when it gives the recipient the opportunity to obtain genuine legal protection. Consequently, the Law on Legal Aid is contrary to the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and to fundamental rights arising from the Constitution. Minister of Justice Kristen Michal explained on 2 April 2012 in the large hall of the Riigikogu, responding to the question of the members of the Central Party's political group that the language regime of the current application for state legal aid is the result of Directive 2003/8/EC of the Council of the European Union of 27 January 2003. Article 1 of the Directive provides that the purpose of the Directive is to improve access to legal aid in cross-border disputes by establishing common minimum rules on legal aid in such disputes. Thus, the Directive does not regulate language requirements in national disputes, i.e. the Minister's argument is not suitable for this controversy. However, the prohibition of discrimination relating to the granting of legal aid to persons residing in the territory of the Member States and to third-country nationals legally residing in the territory of a Member State is highlighted. By virtue of European Union law and in accordance with Article 65 (c) of the Treaty, which directly affects national procedures in national disputes, language measures must include the removal of obstacles to the smooth functioning of civil proceedings by promoting, where appropriate, the compatibility of the rules of civil procedure applicable in the Member States. Our proposal is this: in order to ensure the protection of fundamental rights of individuals, it is necessary to amend the law on legal aid. The proposal is to amend Article 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid and to bring it into line with Article 6 (3) (c) of the ECHR, Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 12, 13, 15 and 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The new wording of § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid would be as follows: 'The application for legal aid is submitted in Estonian. The application may also be made in English or in Russian if the legal aid is requested by a natural person residing in another Member State of the European Union or who is a national of another Member State of the European Union, or by a legal person established in another Member State of the European Union, or if the legal aid is requested by a person who does not have sufficient knowledge of the Estonian language. The application forwarded to the court in another language shall be returned. ' Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are only two new things in this long sentence. One is that, in addition to English, Russian will also appear here, and the other is that the application in Russian can be made by a person who does not speak enough Estonian. As a result of the amendment, it is possible to apply for legal aid in Russian in addition to Estonian and English. In order to clarify matters further, I will quote a little bit about the explanatory statement on this draft. Under Article 6 (3) (c) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (published in the Official Journal of the State in 1996), I have referred to this, but I have not explained what the provision is, which states that every accused person must have the right to defend himself or to obtain legal aid by a lawyer of his choice, if the interests of justice so require and the accused does not have sufficient means to pay for legal aid. Paragraph 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid provides that the application for legal aid is to be submitted in Estonian. In practice, there has been a dispute as to whether the form of the application referred to in Article 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid is compatible with the international conventions and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, as the language requirement of the application laid down in the Law on Legal Aid does not meet them and limits the protection of fundamental rights of people. Such disputes deprive entitled persons of the opportunity to apply to the courts. I myself have at least ten cases where people did not receive free legal aid from the state because they do not speak enough Estonian. These cases I learned from lawyers who mainly deal with Russian-speaking clients. The Supreme Court has stated that § 22 (2) of the Constitution, however, results in the right to receive not just assistance from the State but sufficient assistance, and according to this principle, the legislator must provide real assistance to those in need. However, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court found in Case 3-1-1-24-08 of 24 April 2008 that the application for legal aid submitted in Russian must be dismissed and the application submitted must be returned. Since the person did not possess enough Estonian, he was deprived of the legal aid of the state. Riigikogu discussed the draft State Legal Aid Act for the first time in 2004. Paragraph 12 (5) of that Act, which I constantly recall here, concerning the form of the application and the content of the application, was worded as follows: 'If the application or the documents attached to it are not submitted in Estonian, the applicant shall, if necessary, arrange for the translation of the document. If the application for legal aid is rejected, the costs of translating the documents shall be recognised by the applicant and the costs of the translation shall be taken into account when determining the obligations of the recipient of the legal aid. ' As you understand, ladies and gentlemen, this means that if we make the proposed change, there will be no significant expenditure on the state budget. According to the explanatory memorandum to Bill 249 of the State Legal Aid Act, the purpose of the amendment was to ensure that all persons have timely and adequate access to a competent and reliable legal service. On 15 June 2005, the Act implementing the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure was adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2006, which laid down the new wording of § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid: 'The application for legal aid is submitted in Estonian. The application may also be made in English if the legal aid is requested by a natural person residing in another Member State of the European Union or who is a national of another Member State of the European Union, or by a legal person established in another Member State of the European Union. The application forwarded to the court in another language shall be returned. ' According to Statistics Estonia, 109 languages are spoken as their mother tongue in Estonia, but 97% of Estonians consider Estonian or Russian as their mother tongue. This also applies to Belarusians, Jews, Tatars, Moldovans and anyone. Why am I saying this here? Because there are often such arguments that you want all kinds of official papers to be produced in 109 other languages. No, we are not applying for this because, I repeat, 97% of the inhabitants have either Estonian or Russian as their native language and 97% are large enough. The majority of them, I think of 109 nationalities other than Estonians, speak Russian as their native language, with the exception of Swedes, Finns, Gypsies and some other nationalities who consider Estonian to be their native language. In addition, the results of recent census and sociological studies, such as the monitoring of the integration of Estonian society, also show that a significant part of the local population does not speak the Estonian language well or knows it at all. In particular, pensioners and older people have major problems with Estonian language. It is no secret that problems with the Estonian language are also quite geographically divided, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, this problem is much bigger than in Põlva County. The criteria for the application set out in the State Legal Aid Act have created social inequalities among Estonian citizens themselves. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that even people who have Estonian citizenship may not have 100% of those who speak Estonian well enough. First of all, as we remember, in the early 1990s, Estonian citizenship was acquired at all without an examination, and I mean the language examination. Later, the requirements of the language examination were quite mild, for example, language level A2 was sufficient, but this language proficiency does not allow this application to be met. So it was a marginalisation to show that such a law also creates inequality among citizens. Citizens using Russian as their native language have been kept in mind. The situation can be described as discrimination against a certain group of people who do not speak Estonian. According to § 6 of the Constitution, the official language is Estonian. Thus, if a foreign language application is submitted to a state institution or local government institution, the institution has the right to request a translation into Estonian from the author of the document, with the exception of the special cases provided for in the Act. Thus, the Estonian language can also be interpreted as a working language which does not prevent the principle of equal treatment from introducing certain exceptions in order to guarantee the fundamental rights of persons. The state must ensure that the principle of equality is respected when allocating the benefits. The allocation of benefits shall not be limited by criteria which infringe the principle of equal treatment. The draft does not contain any new terms. The draft complies with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, namely Article 6 (3) (c), Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Council Directive 2003/8/EC of 27 January 2003. Upon entry into force of the Bill, situations in which a person loses a real right to apply to the State for legal aid are excluded because he or she does not speak enough Estonian while living in Estonia. The costs of providing legal services shall be borne by the State on behalf of the person, but the State shall have the right to recover those costs, in whole or in part, from the person who subsequently received legal aid, if the person had not been wholly or partly exempted from reimbursement of the costs of legal aid and the financial situation of the person has not substantially improved within five years of the termination of the provision of legal aid. We want to adopt and enforce this draft as soon as possible. Indeed, the draft does not involve significant costs, as we still have enough people in the judicial system who have not wiped Russian out of their memory and who understand these forms. This form, which we are talking about, is on two pages, which requires a certain level of language skills and does not really work for every person. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read Russian media every day, such as myself or my Russian colleagues, you would know that, at least every month, perhaps more often, articles will appear from people who have not been able to defend their rights, have signed the wrong agreement or have not challenged the maladministration of bailiffs, for example, for the simple reason that their Estonian language skills are not sufficient, for example, there is no legal pharmacy in their area of residence or something where they can turn for help. So I am asking for this bill to be supported and not to look at my party membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U163	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U164	Thank you for a good and thorough presentation. I'm still gonna ask you again. The Government of the Republic's opinion on this bill states that in the cases provided for in § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid Act, the application for state legal aid may also be submitted in English on the grounds that the possibilities for citizens of the European Union living abroad to receive a translation in Estonian are considerably more limited than those speaking in Russian, for example, in Estonia. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U165	Thank you for your question. This has actually been commented on by Minister Kristen Michal in this Chamber, and I do not agree with him. Our minister claims that the opportunities for people living outside Estonia in the countries of the European Union to receive an adequate translation in Estonian are much more limited. But in this case, we are not talking about Russian-speaking people living outside Estonia. I believe that if we have some kind of dispute, I don't know, with a businessman from St. Petersburg, he'll probably be able to ask for legal aid in English as well. We are not talking about cross-border relations here, we are still talking about the language in which our own people speak to our own judicial system. Under Directive 2003/8/EC of the Council of 27 January 2003 the documents proving the application for legal aid shall be translated into the official language or one of the languages of the Member State of the competent authority corresponding to one of the languages of the Community institution. The Minister has said that the Member State will provide the Commission with information on the languages which may be used to fill in the request. This means that Estonia has also provided this information about languages, and these are two languages, Estonian and English. It makes perfect sense, I mean English, because we are part of the European Union and in the European Union English is one of the most widely used foreign languages. The Minister continues that, as a result of the above and in view of the common legal space pursued by the European Union and the principle of equal treatment and free movement of persons in force in the European Union, persons residing and operating outside Estonia who are resident or established in another Member State of the European Union are, by way of exception, allowed to submit applications in English. It is precisely because it is the most common foreign language, as I said. The majority of Estonian officials also possess this foreign language, says the Minister. This argument does not make sense to me because, as far as I am concerned, firstly, English is not required in these positions and, secondly, no one can control it either. For example, when a Russian person goes to work in a state institution, he still comes with proof that his Estonian language is at this and this level. If we say that someone speaks English, then usually a person doesn't have that confirmation paper, that's his self-assessment. If, for example, I look at the home page of an institution that doesn't point a finger at it, I find that everyone else speaks English, but when you start speaking English, it turns out that they don't know much. At the same time, my claim is that people working in our judicial system may be better able to speak Russian than those speaking English. There are, of course, people who try to forget five Russian words every day, but I hope there are not many of them. That is the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U166	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U167	Good performer, I have a question. Legal aid in Russian is indeed a serious problem in Estonia. Has there also been the question that all Russians living in Estonia permanently here are also our taxpayers when defending this law and discussing it in the Commission? With their taxes, I think they've paid off this legal aid, its translation, essentially. They could get the service for that by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U168	Thank you for your question. I believe that this issue is entirely fair, but unfortunately in the Commission, where I have defended this draft and have been present in this debate, this issue was not discussed. Moreover, I received the usual accusation that we are trying to create some kind of creepy russification here, and once again this argument was that Estonian is the official language. No one is arguing about this, including the Russian-speaking taxpayers, all learn the Estonian language and have acquired it more or less, but there are still people who do not master it enough, even though they are taxpayers. In short, the answer is 'no', in this light, however, this issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U169	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When you look at the website of the Ministry of Justice, it looks back that the materials have been translated into both English and Russian. Do you think that this is not enough to ensure that people have sufficient access to legal aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U171	Thank you for this question. I'm sorry, it's gonna take me a minute, less than a minute, I realize everyone's nervous. I'm opening this website. It is as if translated into Estonian and English. For example, let's look at the 'Citizen' cell, there are links: 'Citizen's Legal Aid? ', 'Communication with the Court', 'European e-Justice Portal', etc. If we switch to the English version, we will find more or less the same things, including, for example, the translations of laws into the English language that we do, I do not know whether of free will or of European demand. In any case, the situation is that it is also much easier to do legal matters in English in Estonia than in Russian. When we open the Russian version, we find that it is very small, by the eye maybe 15 lines of explanation, which is national legal aid, and links. All these links lead to Estonian-language sources, which means that it is as if the person knows where to look for answers to their questions, but the answers themselves are untranslated. I can't even tell you whether, for example, a middle school graduate or a high school graduate is able to read the law in Estonian. I deeply doubt that because the laws have their own bureaucratic language. Clearly, such a translation is not enough. It is such a seeming thing as to show courtesy to the Russian-speaking population, although in essence it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U172	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Yana! I can't stop asking that question right now. In the case of a specific draft, if my memory does not deceive me, it was Valdo Randpere, but in the case of other similar drafts, coalition politicians have pointed out before that you would like to establish another national language in Estonia. As one of your fellow thinkers and parties, maybe you can honestly say whether you are really going to incubate us in this nation's country some other national language plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U174	Thank you! I was just beginning to think that if I mention the name of a remote colleague, Randpere, he's gonna have the right to reply. But if he has such an appetite, please! In fact, yes, I also remembered this complaint, and Mr Randpere gave a very emotional speech. As we all know, Mr Randper has two main external experiences, one is Thailand and the other is Sweden. He relied on his Swedish experience and was very proud that he was able to fill out such papers in Swedish, which is very nice. But let us be honest, it is not quite how I say politely in this Riigikogu, ordinary people who, for example, may not be able to do such things in their own language. So it seems to me that this reliance on personal experience is evil at all because our personal experiences are not very great, even when we are very old. The degree of generality should not be reduced to what we ourselves have experienced. As far as this complaint is concerned that I am, as if, in favour of another national language, it is absolutely not true, because I believe that Estonian society is not ready for this and it is not necessary. We have learned Estonian and there is no problem here. This does not mean that we cannot be more lenient and polite to our Russian compatriots, because we all live here together. If we want integration to actually work and Estonia to be such a small, how it is said to be a Melting pot, then it would be in our best interests if we were respectful of each other, which does not mean that we are trying to make a coup and establish another official language in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U175	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, I state that, in the round of questions and answers, there is no right of rejoinder, even if a name is mentioned. This right is in the round of negotiations. So for now, let's move on to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, As for the previous answer, yes, I have often run into it. People who have some narrow personal experience draw conclusions that include tens and hundreds of thousands of people. But, well, the wise learn from books and the world, not the wise learn from their personal experiences. It was, it is, and it will be. I have a slightly different question. You have explained in detail the problems with the current law. But what could be the concrete practical effects that could be expected if it became the law of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U177	First of all, I would still say the floor to protect those colleagues who appeal to personal experience. In fact, it is human in every way, and these experiences may not be so trivial and meaningless. It's just that my understanding of the matter is that we should look a little bit wider, but it's a matter of taste. As far as the impact is concerned, I'd like to compare it with the emergency department. When we go there, we sit there in the long line for hours, we wait for the doctor to see us, and suddenly no one gets away with it, it's like this situation. Because if you already received this free state legal aid, the paradox is that the state will continue to lend you a helping hand and you will have the opportunity to do your business in Russian, because we have the competence to do this in the system. But overcoming this first stage is very difficult for some, if not to say, impossible. I am absolutely sure that if we look at, for example, judicial statistics and people, not the accused of a crime, but people who have themselves asked for free state legal aid to defend themselves against the arbitraryness of an official or bailiff, for example, we will discover that, by nationality, this picture does not correspond to what we actually have in Estonia, or there are few Russian-speaking people there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U178	Thank you very much. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U179	Thank you. Since I had foresightedly already registered as a questioner, without knowing that in the meantime my personal question was going to be discussed, yes, I can say, on the basis of personal experience, that I once learned Swedish and now I am learning Thai. I'm just doing this out of respect for the society I want to be in for a long time. I think it's basic. But here's my question. Yana, you've come here pretty often now, let's say, on a regular basis with various drafts. You do want the Russian gymnasium not to work in Estonian, but you do want help police officers not to speak Estonian, so now you are here with legal aid. Could my eyes ever see the moment when you bring in some drafts on how to help people who speak Russian to acquire Estonian better?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U180	Thank you! Firstly, if, Mr Randpere, for example, tomorrow you would be in trouble in Thailand, where your language training is still in progress, you would probably not be able to write such an application, I do not know exactly how it will be done there, but perhaps you would need the help of an interpreter. It's a good thing you've learned a lot of languages. But we know that not all humans are capable of doing so. We have different intellectual, physical and other abilities. Some are a very good mathematician, but the tongue doesn't stick. It's just the way it is. I know very smart, very good Russian-speaking people here in Estonia, Estonian patriots who simply cannot learn the Estonian language. Believe me, I've done it, and it's been really hard. As far as my 'political action' is concerned, I am very sorry that you have left out of the orbit of interest, for example, the draft energy drinks, the draft children's benefits or any other draft that I have brought here and defended here, and I am, of course, under the coalition road roll. So please don't blame me for doing the Russian thing for my only purpose here in the Riigikogu. Although, yes, it is no secret that I am a representative of the Russian community here and, of course, I defend the interests of my electorate, which is actually the purpose of our law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U181	Thank you very much. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U182	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum of the bill sets out the results of the monitoring of the integration of Estonian society in 2008. They show that a significant part of the local population does not speak Estonian well or does not know it at all. You have already touched on this subject in your presentation, but could you elaborate on the results of this monitoring? I ask this question because I want to understand whether this problem is precedent, one, two or three cases, or whether it is still a larger landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U183	Thank you for this question. Although, Eldar, I don't know if you understand what you're doing, because I've got integration monitoring on 79 pages. I'm not going to read it, it would be inhuman. But the 2008 monitoring really shows that the Estonian language skills of the Russian-speaking population in Estonia improved during the 1995-2002 period, when the integration programme, Phare and other language programmes were launched. I'very much like' this wording: the ambivalent parts decreased and the share of people who are active in the Estonian language increased. For the sake of the tenogram, the fact that I like it was in the big quotes, of course. Further, the proportion of those who are active in the Estonian language has increased. At the same time, however, there has been a slight increase in critical numbers who, according to their own estimates, do not speak Estonian at all. When we look at these figures, for example, the Russian-speaking residents, whose own assessment of Estonian language skills was 'I don't know the general one', were 23% in 1998 and 19% in 2008. So we see that it is essentially one in five people in Russian. We can, of course, curse them and say that we have learned Swedish and Thai, but the fact is that 19% of our people do not understand Estonian at all. Passively, they understand a little bit, but they don't talk 25 percent, that's one in four. This means that a person is unable to express himself, not to mention that he is going to fill out some official paperwork. The answer 'Passive, I understand, and a little talk' gave 24%. Again, this means that people are not able to do this writing. The answer to 'I choose freely' was 15%, 'Active, I understand, and I write a little bit' at 17%. This means that there are a total of 32% of people in Estonia who are theoretically able to fill out such a statement. I don't know if there's anything else I have to add. This means, on the contrary, that 68% of our Russian-speaking compatriots cannot complete their legal aid application without assistance. Last but not least, monitoring also says that learning the Estonian language is no longer considered sufficient to achieve mutual trust and equal positions with Estonians. The utilitarian meaning of Estonian language learning has been strengthened. The Estonian language is needed to get a job, for example, etc. I have this feeling, it's based on my personal experience, what I've heard just talking to people and getting feedback from them, that people of a certain age have probably achieved some kind of ceiling in language learning, and that's all they're learning anymore. If a person is 55+ or 60+, he or she will not learn the language more clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U184	Thank you very much. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U185	Thank you, Madam President. Good Yana! We are all aware that the 'European average' may not give an adequate picture, as the situation may vary considerably from country to country. But do you also have an overview of the legal aid arrangements in other countries, from a linguistic point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U186	Thank you! This issue is almost as voluminous as the question of integration monitoring. The review is quite there. I ordered it from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which I think was six months ago. However, it happened that no one in the Commission, where we discussed this issue, was interested in this analysis, even though it is actually very interesting. In Austria, for example, the working language of all courts is German, so the action must be brought in German. However, in some courts it is also permitted to use minority languages such as burgenland, Croatian, Hungarian or Slovenian as a working language. In short, Austria is guided by the languages used by national minorities there. Belgium has established rules on the use of languages in civil and commercial courts in the Kingdom in 1935. As a general principle, the geographical location of the competent judicial authority of the language used shall be determined. We all know the Belgian language situation. I'm not going to talk any further here, which means that basically all things can be done in two languages. In Bulgaria, the language of the case is Bulgarian; consequently, the action must be brought in Bulgarian. Where foreign-language documents are submitted to the Court in the course of proceedings, a translation into Bulgarian officially certified copies of those documents must be attached. So in this place, I would like to say, with a little smiling, that congratulations, Bulgaria is here as an example for us, although we usually try to compare ourselves with other countries, such as those on the side of the Gulf of Finland. The language of the court proceedings in Estonia is Estonian, but basically the possibility, as I said before in answering one question, of judging in Russian is guaranteed, because there are interpreters in every court. Spain. The courts and their constituent entities shall use Spanish, but such language may also be used in autonomous associations which have their own language, provided that the party to the proceedings agrees. By the way, my own experience of going to court recently shows that we have a situation where the opposite party may understand Russian, but he does not accept the evidence in that language. There will be a cold war where the parties will demand from each other a translation of all kinds of documents into Estonian, and this translation must be notarised. This means that huge sums of money are being made, and consent may not be obtained. The situation in Spain is that it can also be done in the language of minorities, and there are as many as six languages. Plus Spanish. Holland. Dutch is the working language of the Dutch courts. Accordingly, the initial summons, applications for the opening of proceedings or applications must be drawn up in that language. As an exception, documents used in the courts of the province of Friesimaa may also be in Frisian. In Ireland, everything is in Irish, which is perfectly understandable. Italy has the entire procedure in Italian. If the person resides in an area in which there is an officially recognised linguistic minority and that area falls within the jurisdiction of the judge dealing with the case, he or she shall be entitled to use his or her mother tongue in the event that he or she does not speak Italian and shall also complete all documents relating to the proceedings in that language. The translation must also be used for ordinary and expert witnesses who, for any reason, give oral or written statements in legal proceedings. In Greece, everyone in Greek is happy again! In Latvia, everything is in Latvian. In Luxembourg, with the exception of certain specific areas covered by special provisions, it is possible to use French, German or Dutch for the purposes of dealing with cases. In general, French is the language most widely used. Poland. The application and other procedural documents, including the initial application, must be filed in Polish or accompanied by a Polish translation. The Legal Aid Act provides that, if possible, legal aid is granted to a person by a lawyer who speaks a language that the recipient of legal aid understands. In Portugal, all documents must be submitted in writing and in Portuguese, any other language must be translated. If the person summoned to the Portuguese court does not speak Portuguese, an interpreter shall be appointed. In France, it is only French. In Sweden, the language of the case is Swedish; the application must be written in Swedish. Where the action is brought in another language, the court may, in certain cases, require the parties to the proceedings to have it translated. In exceptional cases, the court may itself translate the action. I cannot imagine what would happen in the Estonian judicial system, so that the court itself would translate the case from Russian into Estonian! In Sweden, legal aid also includes reasonable compensation for the cost of interpretation and translation. I'm afraid we don't have that. In Romania, everything must be Romanian. In Germany, everything is in German. Slovakia. If the parties to civil disputes have equal status, the action need not be drafted in the national language. The court shall have the right of the parties to use their own mother tongue or any other foreign language they hold. Slovenia. The official language of the courts shall be Slovenian. Hungarian or Italian is also the official language of the region with a national minority in Hungary and Italy, but the application must be drawn up in Slovenian, alongside Slovenian. Finland. The working language of our closest neighbour Finnish courts is Finnish and Swedish. The application must normally be made in Finnish. Swedish must be used in Åland and in some Swedish-speaking regions. The citizens of Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Denmark may, if necessary, use their own language as well as the application and the application for legal aid shall then be drawn up in that language. In Finland, the person receiving legal aid is exempt from the obligation to pay for translation and interpretation, which is also very enviable. Czech Republic. The parties to the proceedings shall have equal status and shall have the right to take part in legal proceedings in their own language. The applicant may bring an action in his own language. In order to speed up the examination of the action, it is recommended that all documents submitted to the court be accompanied by a translation into Czech. And the last one, Hungary. According to the law, the official language of the proceedings is Hungarian. In proceedings in Hungarian, parties and other parties to proceedings, with the exception of, of course, judicial staff, regardless of their ability to speak Hungarian, have the right to use their native language, regional or minority language on matters specified in international agreements which are not formal in nature. When joining the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, Hungary entered into the following commitments in relation to Croatian, Romanian, German, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian: A person appearing before a court may use his or her regional or minority language without giving him or her any additional costs. Documents and evidence drawn up in a regional or minority language may, if necessary, be submitted by interpreter or translation. Legal documents and documents drawn up between the parties in the countries which have acceded to the Charter shall not be considered null and void only because they have been drawn up in a regional or minority language and may be used in disputes with a third party not holding the language concerned. The court is obliged to ensure that in Hungary, I recall that the parties and other parties to the proceedings can use their own language in the proceedings, involving an interpreter or translator. Thus, at the time of the oral hearing of the party, the expert and the witness, the court must obtain, in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure, an interpreter who provides assistance at the hearing. The court orders an official translation of documents drawn up in a language other than Hungarian from the translator. Interpreter and translator are subject to the provisions of the Code on qualified persons. If the application is filed in a language other than that mentioned in the international agreements, it must be accompanied by an official Hungarian translation. Hungary, as you understand, has quite a mild practice in this respect. I sincerely regret that in the Commission, where we discussed this draft, this overview was not even taken out of the reach and no one was interested in how these things were set out in other countries of the European Union. There are countries that prefer the national language, but as you can see, there are quite a lot of those who are milder, who recognise their ethnic minorities and allow them to deal with the language of minorities in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-04_U187	Thank you very much, good waitress. Today's session is over. These speeches, which have been registered, and the discussion of the whole issue will be postponed to the beginning of the next sitting. Thank you, everyone, and have a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
