ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Some members of the Centre Party Group still do not satisfy the situation at the State Forest Management Centre. Last week, the Minister of Justice gave us an assessment of this case, and that assessment was quite negative. Since the State Forest Management Centre belongs to the area of government of the Minister for the Environment, we have an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment, which consists of three points. We want exhaustive answers from the Minister for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U3	Thank you. Is there any further requests or drafts to be submitted? No more wishes. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 15 February, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aaviköle, the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 83 delegates were registered as present, 18 were absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U4	We're gonna get on today's agenda. The first item is the debate on the 2011 implementation report on 'Criminal policy developments until 2018'. The rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A year ago, you heard the first presentation on the implementation of current developments in criminal policy. The previous Minister of Justice then stressed the importance of rational and cross-party criminal policy. I would like to assure you that the same principles are considered important by the current government, and I believe that our cooperation with the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the special committees during the current Riigikogu has proved this well. Another important principle in the formulation of criminal policy has been the scientific basis. As is apparent from the principles of our legal policy, we consider it important that the effects of all major legislative changes are analysed both before and after the implementation of the law. That makes perfect sense, because it is precisely the effect that we want to achieve, not a new paragraph or a higher penalty rate. At the same time, criminal policy is closely linked to other policies. As a result, there are almost as many references to the activities of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs as there are expectations of the criminal justice system. The causes of these problems that need to be dealt with in the legal system are often in other areas of life. In order to solve these problems, the legal system often needs to be a bridge that leads back to other areas. This is also why we teach Estonian language and professional skills in prison and send drug addicts to treatment instead of prison. The main objective of criminal policy is to prevent crime. As the following report shows, there are often good opportunities for doing so outside the criminal justice system. I'm starting with a crime report on the projections made a year ago. While a few years ago the public predicted an increase in crime due to the recession, before 2011, fears were primarily linked to the introduction of the euro. In both cases, emotional fear rather than rational analysis have been behind the predictions. Last year, it showed that both theft and the abductions, the growth of which was feared, decreased considerably. It was also thought that counterfeiting of the euro would be a major problem. Of course, more counterfeit euros were discovered last year, but at the same time the counterfeiting of other banknotes, including kroons, decreased, and overall the amount of counterfeit money discovered was smaller last year than in many previous years. We surely have reason to rejoice that these prophecies were not fulfilled. Whether because the threat was more prepared or because the prophecy was based more on emotions, it is difficult to say, but the result is in any case positive. In 2011, 42567 crimes were registered by the investigating authorities and the prosecutor's office. This is 12% less than in 2010 and 26% less than in 2003, the first year in which the Penal Code was in force. The registration of crimes fell quite evenly across Estonia, unlike in the previous year. The number of crimes decreased in 12 counties. In Pärnumaa it remained almost at the 2010 level, and in Jõgevamaa and Saaremaa it increased slightly, fortunately only a few percent. The most crimes are still committed in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. All of you will be able to access the statistics of your area at the Justice Department's online home. As I said, the number of crimes against property decreased significantly by 19%. Once the kidnappings have been reduced for a long time, we very much hope that thefts and frauds were a turning point in 2011 and that the number of these crimes will not rise to the same level. The proportion of cases committed by electronic means has increased year-on-year among rogues. Since money travels virtually to a large extent, crooks are also trying to track it through electronic channels. Since there is no direct contact with the victim, these crimes can be committed from anywhere in the world and are therefore more difficult to solve. The decrease in the number of thefts is confirmed by statistics on registered crimes, surveys of the population as well as data from security firms, for example. Compared to last year, there were fewer thefts from shops, dwellings, and cars, to name the main places where they were stolen. The number of registered thefts decreased by 20%. Police opened criminal proceedings in 2011 to investigate nearly 20,000 theft cases. Although theft accounts for almost half of the registered crimes, it is known that some people do not report them to the police because the case is not considered serious enough. This is particularly true of small-scale thefts, such as car and garden thefts. Only a few dozen percent of the victims are reported to the police. However, it is actively reported where the damage is significant or where insurance benefits can be expected, in particular car and apartment thefts. However, the police should also be informed of cases where the damage is small. So-called petty thefts do not have to be part of life; they must not be taken naturally. I would remind you that you don't have to go to the police station to report a crime, but it's enough to send a report to the prefecture's e-mail address. Of course, there can also be the purest of rationality: the small thing, the police have more important things to deal with. But just as crime begins with petty crimes, the fight against crime starts with minor violations, which is why law enforcement must also pay attention to such cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U6	While the reduction in early crime was good news last year, the increase in traffic and violence crimes is negative. The majority of traffic offences are intoxicated management, which was registered 10% more than a year earlier in 2011. The increase in misdemeanours in drunken driving also confirms that more drivers were drunken than before last year. However, I would not be quick to conclude from this statement that people's compliance with the law has been reduced in any way. Rather, it can show that the positive impact of the economic crisis on crime, which was the result of less alcohol consumption, has come to an end. I dare say that alcohol is the main factor influencing crime in Estonia and, above all, its impact in traffic and violent crime. Trends in recent years show that if alcohol is less consumed, the number of killings and murders and lighter violent crimes will also decrease. As alcohol consumption increases, the rate of violence will also increase. Unnatural deaths, from traffic and fire deaths to drowning and violence deaths, are all more or less related to the effect of alcohol on human behaviour. Since there are a lot of drinkers in Estonia at all, as well as those who drink too much, we are at the top of Europe with our black statistics. According to the latest comparable data, only Lithuania is left behind in the number of killings in Estonia, and the proportion of our killings exceeds the average in Europe by nearly four times. When the European Union is talking about the goal of zeroing the number of road deaths, I think it would be even more humane to achieve such a target for alcohol deaths. In order to reduce the number of killings, there are very few administrative tools that could be used in the criminal justice system. One measure, which may have some impact, is the response to lighter cases of violence. For example, when it comes to domestic violence, it is known that if there has been violence in a relationship, it will become worse over time than it will fade away. During the last year, the Ministry of Justice worked hard with the police and the prosecutor's office to ensure that there were no cases of non-response to violence. We will certainly continue with this important issue this year. I would like to congratulate the prosecutor's office and the police on their clearly taken stance that cases of domestic violence are being taken seriously. In the spring, we will see whether the link between alcohol consumption and violence and traffic offences has been reaffirmed or whether the reason for the increase in these crimes must be sought elsewhere. My report and the relationship between crime and alcohol consumption should not lead to the conclusion that the populist fight against alcohol solves all the issues. It is important to think carefully about what can be done by the state and what can be done by local governments. Special attention should be paid to dealing with young people. Although each of us can improve with each of the next choices we make, a conscious choice of lifestyles should begin in our youth. What someone does in his spare time and how he does it is his conscious choice. If these options go wrong, these options become figures in statistics. Such an understanding of the culture that alcohol is the one around which recreation revolves takes this culture behind the store. Yet, there is no need to seek the message that a wise person should not consume alcohol when spending the evening with his friends. Just as a father should not go to a zoo with children only on Child Welfare Day or his mother should not remember only on Mother's Day, so young people should not be offered a campaign instead of alcohol. We can certainly discuss this issue rationally and without populism when new bases for alcohol policy are completed in the Ministry of Social Affairs. In particular, I hope that, in the coming years, we will be able to act thoughtfully to ensure that better choices are made from an early age. This is the most important target group to work with. Young people shape what kind of Estonia we live in in 10, 20 or 30 years from now. Today's decision-makers depend on whether Estonia is an open, active and lively Nordic country or a country where the national sport is a bottle game. A word of security indicators. Last year a lot was said about whether and why it makes sense to live in Estonia. One important criterion is certainly a sense of security: whether I can be at home or on the street without fear of being attacked by pleasure or covetousness. According to studies, most people now feel free to travel alone in dark times in their own home. In 2011, 28% of people felt insecure in this situation. Compared to the 1990s, we have taken a big step forward. It is a joy that, although circumstances have been more uncertain in the years of the economic crisis, people's security has remained at the same level. We are in the middle of Europe in terms of security. However, the factors affecting our sense of security are somewhat different from those in Western Europe. After all, we have no problems with violent antisocial youth gangs, such as those in England or the Nordic countries. Estonia's relatively thin settlement also helps to keep the indicator low, which means that there is less contact with strangers at all. At the same time, the people of Estonia are terrified by drunken and noisy people, who often act aggressively. In particular, this problem stands out in Ida-Virumaa, whose people's sense of security is clearly weaker than that of other Estonia. I think we should pay more attention to the specific nature of Virumaa in this matter. The increase in security, and certainly the increase in real security, shows how likely people are that someone will break into their home and try to steal something. In 2000, 44% of respondents considered this likely, so almost every other person. This figure was 23% in 2012. But again: 40% of these people were in Viru County, including 6% thought that breaking and entering were very likely. I am now talking about more important activities in 2011 in the context of pursuing developments in criminal policy. In the justice system, one of our main objectives is to reduce the exposure of minors to the legal system. One measure is to reduce the length of criminal proceedings. Here we have been following the time limits for proceedings for several years. We are pleased to note that the approach to one month of the average length of proceedings was also taken in 2011, when the average pre-trial procedure lasted 2.3 months instead of 2.7 months. In the field of reducing juvenile crime, the Ministry of Justice has close cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. We are looking forward to a great leap of quality here in the coming years. Firstly, we want to help municipalities improve the quality of services for children and families and the prevention of crime. Secondly, following the example of the Nordic countries, we want to create a programme to engage intensively in the concerns of troubled young people. This means that we are trying to solve serious behavioural problems, not only by offering recreational activities but also by influencing young people and their families by means of interventions that have produced good results in other countries. At the moment, we do not have interventions that are so effective that they do not require us to send a child to a closed establishment and, at the same time, are lenient enough to keep a child in his daily environment. Such measures must affect all the problems that have caused the child's behavioural difficulties, such as family and health problems, learning difficulties and social and communication skills shortages. The third strand concerns children and young people in special schools and prisons. Here we want to implement an effective aftercare system to help them adapt better in their everyday environment. Our wider goal is that children should only be admitted to closed facilities at the very least and that the number of children there would be reduced. Both in Estonia and elsewhere in the world, it has been proven that the worst option is to lock a child or a young person for a year or two behind closed doors. Closed agencies, no matter what they do, produce crime, not reduce it. This year, we also hope to hold a discussion on what agencies we need for troubled young people. We are now sending such children to a special school as a continuation of the Soviet tradition, even though we know that the main problem for these children is not incompetence at school. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, 75% of students in a special school have been diagnosed with mental disorder, in other words, these children need first and foremost help from the social and health care system, not education behind closed doors. In any case, the debate on this subject is open. I'll continue with health care. In autumn, a study on fraud and corruption risks in the health sector commissioned by the Ministry of Justice at the University of Tartu was completed. The great attention that the study received both in the media and in the medical sector is certainly a sign that, on the one hand, this area affects all of us and, on the other hand, it is a complex and closed system. The study clearly revealed the sensitivity of the healthcare sector to corruption, from the procurement of equipment to the setting of the order of treatment for money. The authors recommend stronger supervision of the health sector, but with preventive measures. We will certainly discuss these measures with our partners when we start putting together a new anti-corruption strategy this year. Thus, the fight against corruption in medicine is one of the possible directions of a new strategy. In order to prevent your question of whether after a successful treatment, you can no longer bring a candy box and a bouquet of flowers to the doctor, I will say that you can and you can always say thank you to the doctor. Heartfelt gratitude is not always expressed in things. The medical issues the Minister of Justice dealt with last year were further. In last year's speech, the previous Minister of Justice spoke about the treatment of drug users who committed crimes, there is a reason today to talk about the treatment of sex offenders, which the draft has just arrived in Parliament. Although I also have the question of whether sex offenders should not be treated with pliers, we prefer scientific methods in the Ministry of Justice that combine rationality and effectiveness. From the point of view of motivated sex offenders and society as a whole, complex treatments are the best and proven solution in other countries. Long cooperation with specialists and exchanges of experience with other countries are behind this draft. I believe that programmes for the treatment of sex offenders, paedophiles, combined with penalties, mean well spent resources in the eyes of every taxpayer. There is nothing more important than the safety of children. I am convinced that this is also the position of the honourable Riigikogu. As of the turn of the year, 3,399 people were in prison. The latest Eurostat data showed that this figure places us at the top of Europe together with Latvia and Lithuania. If we are to reach an average European level, the number of prisoners in Estonia must decline twice. I would remind you that keeping one prisoner per month costs nearly a thousand euros. Thus, reducing the cost of a prison system that is costly to society is one of the objectives that we should have in mind when making decisions, by finding solutions that will deliver better results. The number of arrested and sentenced persons did not change much compared to 2010. The number of convicted persons decreased the most in 2007 and the number of arrested in 2009 and 2010. It's because of the purposeful work of the DA's office. In the coming years, we hope to reduce the number of arrests by replacing arrests with electronic surveillance. Following the legislative amendment which entered into force last year, the Court has already used this option 32 times. In the case of persons released from prison before the deadline, the electronic surveillance system has fully justified itself. Hopefully, this will be just as successful for those arrested. In prison policy, 2011 was also important because the foundation of the Tallinn prison in Rae's parish was boosted. According to current plans, the new prison should open its stylised doors in 2015 and in the centre of Tallinn a prison can be closed, which, as a developed country today, will not do much honour. I will continue on the subject of penalties. Apart from those criminals who are serving sentences in prison, and those whose reversibility we try to reduce by other means, there are a number of people whose punishment we do not want to pick up our wallet. We are talking about those criminals that we send out of the country as an additional punishment or hand out to other countries on the basis of international agreements. In 2011, the state sent five people to serve their homeland for crimes committed in Estonia. The fact that Estonia is not an attractive place in terms of crime also shows that more criminals are sent to Estonia for crimes committed elsewhere. Last year we received nine of these people. Luckily, there were twice as many cases as there were last night. I'm gonna go on with the resources. In 2011, the crime rate was 55%. This rate was well higher than the rate of 48.5% last year. However, data show that both years of work were carried out at the same level, as no new investigators were added to the police or prosecutor's office and the number of proceedings completed during the year was at the same level for two years. Obviously, there will be no future increase in the number of criminal investigators, which is why the percentage of crime resolution can increase, in particular as a result of a reduction in crime. If there are fewer cases pending, most of the cases reported to the police will be resolved. If we are to achieve a better result, whether it is expressed in less crime or in a better sense of security, we must manage the resources of the fight against crime very wisely. The aim of each step must be to reduce crime. If the treatment of a drug addict or a sexually disabled person produces better results in reducing reversibility than keeping him in prison, then we need to take advantage of these opportunities and look for more. We're not rich enough to allow high levels of crime. Last year's first crime cost analysis was completed. You can also find this in the Justice Department's online home. We studied with the police how much it costs to deal with a drunk driving case and shoplifting case before trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U7	Sorry, waitress! There's too much noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U8	Thank you. The results were sobering. The state spends nearly ten times more resources on the theft than the total damage to the theft. I believe you agree that this cannot be considered a proportionate or intelligent way of using internal security money. Pre-trial proceedings for a drunken management case cost an average of 200 euros, shop theft proceedings 191 euros. In total, these procedures cost around EUR 1.4 million per year. Finally, I will address in a few words the plans of the Ministry of Justice for 2012. The beginning of the year has been billed on the side of criminal policy: the Riigikogu has received a new regulation of surveillance activities and a draft bill for complex treatment of sex offenders, the new draft anti-corruption law and amendments to the Forensic Law, which mainly concern the functioning of the DNA and fingerprints register, are immediately followed. However, more work is to be done this year in connection with the revision of the Penal Code. An analysis of the working group led by Professor Jaan Sootak will be completed in the near future and then a codification committee will be set up, whose work should result in the draft by the end of the year. There are no major reforms planned in criminal proceedings in 2012, but we are planning to review the provisions on victims and civil actors, and we are considering ways to improve the realisation and confiscation of evidence. In spring, a new draft Code of Misdemeanour Procedure will be sent to the coordination circle. There will be more laws, and we will definitely continue research. There is still much ahead of us in this area. We would like just as effective cooperation with the Riigikogu to continue. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U9	Good waitress! How much more time do you need? How about two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U10	Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U11	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U12	Thank you very much for the waitress. Before we go to the questions, it is for information to state that according to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, any member of the Riigikogu may submit an oral question to the rapporteur during the discussion of this item on the agenda. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your review. You talked about the importance of reducing alcohol consumption in Estonia, especially among young people. My question is, what are the plans of the government to reduce alcohol consumption? Let me just give you an example. If you watch television at night, we often see three out of five ads as alcohol ads when a cool activity is drinking alcohol. But that's just one example. What are your plans to reduce alcohol consumption in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U14	Thank you. When you noticed, I pointed out that alcohol is a very important factor in causing all anti-personal and perhaps traffic crimes. One policy developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs deals with alcohol science in general. Personally, I consider it very important to stress that the fight against alcohol does not have to bear such a seal of populism. Word about banning advertising and everything else, I'm afraid, is more like populism. It should be considered how young people and those who will make their choices in the future will be offered meaningful action and the ways and opportunities that can be used so that free time is not furnished with alcohol. Several studies have been carried out on this subject over time, and you have certainly read all of them. From these studies it is very simple that those who are referred to as heavy users, or very persistently, constantly and with a large amount of alcohol in general, cannot be changed. They are not changed by the fact that when alcohol is sold at different times, they are not influenced by advertisements or anything else, they are in any case drinking this stuff. Rather, the generation that grows and can make its own choices should be dealt with. This is my message.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U15	Next, I give the floor to Mailis Reps. Because of a technical problem, the line got mixed up. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I wanted to ask you about the violence in your relationship, but unfortunately, I have to turn to the issue of alcohol. You stressed once again in your reply that banning advertising is, in your opinion, populism. You were talking about research. I believe you are aware that not only in Estonia, but also internationally, research has repeatedly shown that advertising is the most effective for young people and very young people. Therefore, I have a question for you as Minister of Justice: if it has been shown that advertising has a positive effect on young people, in the sense that they are also acting on advertising, and restricting alcohol consumption by banning advertising is one of the strong measures, why do you think it should not work in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U17	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U18	Thank you. I'm sure you know that my previous job was the post of secretary-general of a political party, which I held for eight years. I was one of those people who spent a lot of money on all kinds of ads. The idea that advertising can achieve anything that otherwise cannot be achieved is, in my opinion, relatively superficial. Neither are the advertisements of the Centre Party forcing people to choose the Centre Party in any way, but people make different choices. Similarly, we see young people who are going to work out or get excited and who are not going to take a bottle because alcohol commercials came on TV. Once again, I think advertising is a substitute. It should still be asked what are the activities that are offered to young people, what are offered by municipalities, what are offered by NGOs, and what have you done to provide action for young people. This, in my opinion, is the main issue, because it is the beginning of life's attitudes. It is not about whether and in what form advertising is displayed. There are many people who make their own choices, regardless of what is advertised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, thank you for a meaningful presentation! I would certainly be prepared to debate further on certain points of view that you have written here, but the current format of our communication in this great Chamber does not allow this. I come to a subject like close-up violence. It is certainly positive that domestic violence has been a priority for the Minister. He has also made this very clear in his area of government. However, it seems to me, in the light of my experience, that the problems in society arising from people's relationships, whether from close relationships or even from a little wider, are increasing and increasing. If you get a bucket stolen from the yard, then, okay, you buy a new one, that's okay. However, if mental violence continues to increase and ends up with physical violence, it is a serious problem for society. What are we going to do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U20	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U21	I think we need to continue this debate in a longer way, I am thinking about the question of mental violence. I cannot say in such an abstract way where this mental violence is and what it is. But you're right. The response to cases of domestic violence, including lighter cases of violence, has taken particular attention and is being dealt with by the police, the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. We will be able to clarify later in the debate what you mean by wider mental violence. Everyone has a different perception of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U22	Thank you. Dear Minister, You spoke of driving a vehicle intoxicated, the following sentence, and the cost of handling that sentence. Do you think there would be a solution to avoid getting into a vehicle intoxicated by alcohol? The Ministry of Social Affairs has mentioned the use of a possible alcohol lock in cars in its alcohol policy. Finland and Sweden have in some cases gone that way. Can Estonia consider introducing it in the near future? The number of road traffic offences increased by 12% in 2011 compared to 2010. I mean, drunk driving.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U23	Thank you. Like you, I find the subject of the alcoplasms very interesting. I think it needs to be dealt with further. I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is working on a plan to address the issue of alkaloids. We are co-responsible there, and we will certainly be putting under our shoulders to help analyse Nordic practice in the use of alkoluks. It can be said that alcohol locks are still more of a follow-up to people who have already gotten into some kind of trouble once. I think that this debate in Estonia should be wider than the alcohol locks. However, this is also a possible technical solution. This is a very good technical solution for not starting a car, but the best solution is still between the two ears of a person: if you drink, you shouldn't drive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U24	Thank you. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, Mr. Minister! You really had a very exciting and meaningful presentation, much better than yesterday's Minister of the Interior speech in this Chamber. I also have a question about domestic violence. We know that many provisions of the Penal Code also have a preventive effect. You said the Ministry of Justice had a committee to update the Penal Code. How much do you know about the work of this working group? Has there been close-up violence, domestic violence as an aggravating circumstance, or some condition in the various provisions of violence, at issue, and will there be a separate, say, preventive composition of the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U26	Thank you. We've probably discussed this with you before. I've also talked to the Justice Department to think about it. However, the product of the work of this working group is independent, which we will not influence in any way. Let them come to their conclusions. I think this is a substantial job, which the Ministry of Justice, along with the committees and experts of the Riigikogu, will certainly look at. What to decriminalise, what to criminalise, whether there are aggravating compositions, especially in cases of domestic violence, is a rather complex issue. I think this debate is still ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U27	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U28	Thank you. Since the Rules of Procedure only allow questions to be asked once, I will ask two questions very quickly. The first is about the benefits paid by the unemployment fund. We know quite a lot of cases where people are not really unemployed, but they go to work, get paid black, pay taxes and, at the same time, withdraw money from the unemployment fund. Is there a plan to make such conduct punishable by criminal law? The second question: what are the trends in shockvanging in Estonia? When I read certain studies, I have learned that, especially for minors and those who have broken the law for the first time, short-term shock spells are the most effective method of punishment. Is this trend common in Estonia or what are the developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U29	Thank you. To answer the first question, you should look at the specific case you were talking about. The possible fraud of the unemployment fund as a more general trend has not been discussed separately with the Ministry of Social Affairs. If there is a real problem, we will definitely be discussing it. In general, any more complicated acts of property abuse are punishable by criminal law. We'll have to see what's in there. The other part of the question dealt with the problem of shock. As you can see from the trend, and as I said in my report, prison times are generally shorter and the number of prisoners has decreased, which means that it is either a shorter period of imprisonment, I say well in general terms, or more modern methods are being sought to get a person to behave legally. There are also shock spells, but it is rather an attempt to treat minors in such a way that they are exposed to the legal system for as short a time as possible. There are richer countries than Estonia, where there are separate people and separate rooms to interrogate and deal with young people, this is not happening at the police station, etc. So I guess we're trying to treat minors and this company, I think, somewhat better to keep them from getting on that path in the future. Shock arrest, I think, is already at the end of the scale, that this could lead to a criminal career in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U30	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! At the beginning of your report, you said that the police would not be informed of minor crimes, minor thefts, that only up to 20% of the victims would report them. You've come to the conclusion that it's jewelry-based rationality, that it's a small thing the police have more important to do. Many of us, as well as many of us, have come into contact with such small things. The police have been approached, but no solution has come. Most of my acquaintances who have failed to report have said that the police aren't doing this anyway, it's such a small thing. This conclusion, that it is rational, may not be right, but may simply be hopelessness. What is the plan to do so that people do not feel that it is hopeless to approach the police about a small matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U32	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U33	Thank you. I don't think that signal was the way it seemed. The credibility of the police is very high. I think people trust the police, and I'm sure for a reason. Police within their resources, just like the prosecutor's office and all other law enforcement agencies, are dealing with crimes, even if they are minor crimes. As the Minister of Justice and as a human being, I understand that, of course, minor crimes may be behind in order of priorities. The police also have priorities in which order they operate. I think that the expectation of society and the Riigikogu could be that, above all, heavier crime, such as organised crime and everything else, which is stated in the priorities, would be dealt with first and foremost. I don't think "hopeless" is the right word. The police must be informed in any case, because small thefts and petty crime do not have to be part of life. We hope and act to reduce the number of crimes over time and to address all these minor crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U34	Honourable Minister of Justice! You said in your report that as of the turn of the year, there were 3399 people in prison with basically EUR 41 million in maintenance costs. Do you see a real opportunity in the coming years, either through replacement sanctions or other measures, to bring the number of prisoners and arrested closer to the average level in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U35	Thank you. That's a very good question. I think that in the coming years we will not be getting close to Europe's average level. This is because of Estonia's past and the environment around us. But I think the journey has begun, and that's where we have to go. We certainly need to look for different solutions that will allow for different ways of controlling those people who, instead of being in prison, could be at large with either an ankle bracelet or some other technical means. The program of sexual offenders will be discussed in the Riigikogu. Under this programme, these criminals are under the control of society at length, but it is certainly more useful to society at large than to pay for their stay in prison, and maybe in the long run, with all this crime background, it will be equally useful. We are moving towards this, but I do not think that the number of prisoners in the coming years will decrease to such an extent and so sharply that we can reach the European average.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U36	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was quite surprised at how tolerant you are, however, of alcohol advertising. You said the alcohol ad didn't have any effect at all. If the ad doesn't have any effect, why do we even use advertising? Alcohol could be in the corner of the store, and each person could decide when to take it. You said that the main objective, however, was to provide young people with substitution activities, activities through youth work and sport. I would say that, too, is populist because it is the Reform Party and the IRL that have taken this money away from the local authorities, they have changed the law on sport and the law on youth work. My question is: how far away are all these intentions, the negotiations with local authorities, how much are these sums of money and what are we going to do in the next few years specifically to provide these services?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U38	Thank you. I do not wish to contradict the honourable member of the Riigikogu in any way, but I am sure we will be left with different opinions as if there were no economic opportunities to offer young people an activity in Estonia. I think every municipality makes these choices itself. Various projects and grants are available for this purpose. I too often wonder what the money is spent on. I live in Tallinn, so I can talk about Tallinn. I see you're swinging your finger, but I can talk about Tallinn because I live here. I was very much hoping that we would not have to address this issue here. I think that Tallinn, as a municipality, is not using this money very sensibly. Instead of showing young 'Captain Tenkesi' clips or whatever comes from Tallinn Television, they could be offered sports opportunities and leisure opportunities. If you don't agree with me, whatever. We'll talk later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U39	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I noticed that the Action Plan of the Ministry of Justice states a review and reform of the Penal Code. This is a very welcome initiative. Your records also show, for example, that 82 pieces of crime, or 22% of the Penal Code, have never been implemented. This shows that we have overreacted and we have over-regulated. I believe and hope that this matter will also be reviewed during this reform or revision and the hope of managing social life by means of repressive and punitive means will be reduced. That was more of a comment. Now, at the same time...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U41	We're out of time for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U42	Got it. Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U43	There's no question. That was a comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U44	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, The subject of today's presentation is developments in criminal policy. Within this framework, I was surprised to find health care. Similar problems exist in many areas of life where the target group is dealt with using different techniques to present its products, and most of the time there is nothing illegal about it. Do you not think that, for example, it is offensive for the medical community to place particular emphasis on health care in developments in criminal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U45	First of all, about Rait Marust's comment, I very much agree with that. In my opinion, people's lives must not be governed by orders and prohibitions, but by common good values and examples. Certainly, in the review of the penal policy, there is also the objective of reviewing everything that has reached the Penal Code in the meantime as a reflection of the evening news. But it was a side action. Now for health care. You see, healthcare is a very large area of trust. There is a very close relationship of trust between a person and his doctor. Often, when a person goes to a doctor, he or she is in a very difficult situation and is therefore prepared to do a great deal to get ahead of the line or to obtain some kind of favorable conditions. Speaking about taxpayers' money, too, it must be said that the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior or any other minister is relatively young compared to the Minister of Social Affairs, who basically holds half of the national purse of the Estonian state. A large amount of taxpayers' money goes into health care, which is why it is natural that we monitor the area where taxpayers' money goes. Studies show what you said that most doctors in Estonia are very honest people. Only a few percent of people in the healthcare sector have been exposed to corruption. But a few percent means thousands of people. This means, in fact, that this whole area needs to be reviewed: how do medicines get on a preferential list, how do you move on to the list of things like this? As a medical actor, I think you will understand that such things must be monitored and threats prevented, not only should they be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U46	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! For a long time there has been a restriction on the sale of alcohol from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. in the evening. Have studies been carried out on what can then be concluded that this was a good step? The second question is: do you think gas stations should sell strong alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U48	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U49	Thank you. That's a good question. I can't even tell if there have been studies in Estonia on this. I'll have to check it out later. At least the Estonian police leaders with whom I have spoken have said that if the time for selling alcohol in other parts of the world is reduced by an hour, for example, in bars or in certain areas, there is also a clear correlation with the reduction in crime. Crime is decreasing in this particular place, but what is the general trend, it needs to be analysed. In general, the police say that, at least in other countries, correlation is visible. I don't know about gas stations. Once again, I come back to the fact that I think the most important thing in a person is between two ears. Everyone has to make their own decisions. I haven't seen a bottle that runs into a car and pushes myself down a drunken throat. In general, all people take this bottle with them. I think these choices should be made by themselves. I very much agree with Rait Marust's comment on whether people's lives should be guided by prohibitions or whether people should think with their own heads. I am in favour of this way of thinking with my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U50	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! When you spoke earlier about the nonsense of the restrictions on alcohol advertising, you said that young people would rather keep away from vices by engaging in areas of interest. I agree that accessible recreational education could be a very good step towards keeping young people in the right way. However, the government or coalition has not been able to contribute much to education through education and regional policy. Maybe we can count on you here, and it is through prevention activities in the field of criminal policy that Estonians become available.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U51	Thank you. That was an interesting trick question. I don't think the justice system is going to provide an education of interest. But I am sure that my home party will be looking out for interesting activities for young people, that the Estonian state would do so well financially and that the local governments would do just as well to be able to use this money for young people. As we discussed in the previous debate, what is being offered really depends on the choices made by local government leaders. I think there are also NGOs in Estonia that can offer young people something. So actually, this picture isn't so black, let's not show it in black colors. I think that, if you focus on something, you should focus primarily on offering young people action and shaping values and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U52	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd love to ask the Attorney General, but he's not here. So I'll have to ask you. The question is this: when will the Attorney General come up with instructions on close-relationship violence, exactly the same as the crimes already committed by minors and against minors? What can you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U54	The DA's office has been working on this for a long time. Half or three quarters of a year ago, we talked to the Attorney General about this. I also know this through people in our house who have daily business contacts with the DA's office. In such matters, the prosecutor's office has taken a very clear stance that violence in a close relationship or domestic violence is not taken lightly. The closure of these cases will be subject to a very thorough review. I think that this issue is already somewhat outdated, because all of it is actually being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U55	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U56	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the people's security in Ida-Virumaa is the least, because there is a specific feature. As the elected representative of Ida-Viru County, I ask you what you think this speciality is and what should be done to increase the security of the population in the region, so that it is at least at the average level of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U57	Thank you. Criminal statistics show that, unfortunately, more crimes are committed in Ida-Virumaa and this area is more criminogenic. Similarly, people's security is worse there. In sociological studies, researchers and analysts have pointed out the importance of the amount of exposure to people who drink and drink alcohol. That's one reason why people don't feel safe. The question is asked this way: How safe do you feel walking alone in your hometown? That is one reason why people, especially women, say that they do not feel very safe. It is considered to be one of the sources of this problem. What should the Estonian state do? I know that in the Government of the Republic and also in the Riigikogu, the Ida-Viru County Action Plan has been discussed. I think it should be completed and taken seriously. Just as we are faced, say, with broader questions, such as the question of whether the Academy of Home Affairs will be taken to Ida-Viru County. I'm talking about the background. We are in contact with qualified lawyers in the justice system, and it is very difficult to get a job there. There are even separate scholarships for young lawyers to go to work there. It is also difficult to get judges in Ida-Viru County. This is simply something that must be worked on consistently, because Ida-Viru County is part of Estonia and that is exactly how it must be treated. In the administration of the Ministry of Justice, we have also had thoughts about which institutions or divisions could be sent to Virumaa, so that there would be more legal order and, in some ways, the spirit of the Republic of Estonia. I think it needs to be dealt with consistently. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U58	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few weeks ago, in his interview with the Financial Times, the President of the Republic announced that the only place where we have problems with corruption was at the local government level. However, if you look at the Ministry's report, in 2010 a total of 223 corruption crimes were recorded, 36 of which were committed at local government level and 102 in the police, courts, prisons, ministries, defence forces, county governments and other state institutions, plus 32 in all kinds of legal entities, including KIC.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U60	How do you appreciate the President saying that it's the local government again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U61	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U62	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U63	Thank you. I don't think the president said the local government was responsible for everything. I think he pointed out that municipalities are often the first and main partner of a person who makes decisions. Various corruption surveys are available on our website. They're pretty voluminous, and it's worth looking at. There is nothing to do, there are serious risks of corruption in the municipality sector too. That's a fact. I think that's what he pointed out. But it is not my job to interpret the President's words. I say that corruption must be combated wherever it occurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I was, of course, pleased by the honorable third place in Viljandimaa after Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, as the elected ambassador of Viljandimaa. For 10,000 inhabitants, we committed just over 170 crimes. At the same time, it is quite different statistics for a small Estonia. Several times more crimes have been committed in some counties. Some of the questions that have been put in this Chamber today also motivate me to ask whether there has been an analysis and statistics on how much education of interest and child occupancy directly affect the number of crimes. Viljandi County has a sports school and other recreational schools with almost a thousand students as one of them. How seriously does this affect the number of crimes? Compared to Tallinn, the difference is multiple.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U65	There are certainly no statistics on the link between crime and youth education in some county. However, studies carried out here in Estonia and elsewhere show that there is a general connection to how a young person develops, what choices he makes, how he will act in the future. I pointed out that, although it only touched on specialised schools, people who have been exposed to violence or who have caused it themselves are more likely to repeat this crime and be exposed to violence again. I think this conclusion is based on common sense. It has long been known to the Estonian people that young people who do sports or spend time in any other way do not hang out behind the shop. What's there to discover?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U66	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U67	Thank you. Dear Minister, The above question was about the effects of the nocturnal restrictions on alcohol sales. Indeed, no fundamental studies have been carried out on the results of this restriction, but the police leaders have confirmed that there is a significant loss of damage in two main directions. First, the car used to buy more vodka from the gas station at night. Secondly, the number of victims has decreased. Even if a completely sober person thinks at night that he is going for alcohol, he often falls victim to a crime. Do you agree that such a reduction in damage is a step in the expected direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U68	I agree that any loss of damage that we can achieve through preventive action is a good thing. My personal conviction is that it is always cheaper to prevent corruption, violence, harm and everything else. It is always cheaper for society and each individual to contribute to prevention than to deal with the consequences. If we look at the statistics on the criminal justice system, if we count crimes, that's the consequences. Prevention must be an option at a much earlier stage. I think that all actions relating to prevention and help to prevent future crime-related harm are very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U69	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, thank you for a thorough and constructive presentation! I am specifically asking about developments in criminal policy. We are talking here in a forward-looking way until 2018 and we are talking about security. One important part of security besides what is happening outside, on the street or at home is what is happening online. Is and how is this section intended to be enhanced? I am thinking of the communication of young people or children on portals, the security of some people's banking operations or ownership protection in general. How could this be enlightened by developments in criminal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U71	Thank you. I don't remember when we talked about this in the Riigikogu, but we used to talk. The police, like the police in other countries, now have such a web constable. His name is Web Constable Andero. You can all look for him on Facebook, and if you find out, you can make him your friend. I looked the other day, he had 5,000 friends. If the members of the Riigikogu are added to it, it is not a significant number, but it is nevertheless worth doing so. Of course, we must contribute to such modern activities. As you have seen and know from the news, the various activities that are carried out online, including the sexual attraction of children, are criminalised. I think that when it comes to computer scams and cybercrime, Estonia is being dealt with very seriously. Estonia's role in the world is not small. The recent operations, which captured people who still had a noticeable influence in the world of cybercrime, are also quite remarkable. So that's definitely what we're working on. As far as intellectual property protection and copyright are concerned and this side is concerned, it is on the agenda of the Ministry of Justice. At the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Culture and MKM transferred all the topics of intellectual property protection and copyright and industrial property rights to the Ministry of Justice. We intend to deal with this in a way that we can reach some kind of concept in a year or a year and a half. We intend to do so in the spirit of good lawmaking principles, as we always do when preparing draft laws, so that all parties, including those whom we see expressing ideas about an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, are at this table. We are trying to set an example in inclusion and we want others to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U72	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U73	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, thank you for your thorough review. My question is about growing maintenance debts. The hands of bailiffs are quite tied, and criminalisation of the intentional circumvention of parental duties has not been known to generate much revenue. What else could we do? Have you ever thought about that in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U74	Thank you. I think we have both expressed an opinion on this subject through the media. We have different ideas, too. We just talked to bailiffs and the IRS. One idea that has been negotiated to some extent lately at the "work" level has to do with the fact that the non-payment of maintenance claims is agreed by the institution to be shown as a minimum wage. You can't really pay for a living on a salary like this. If this salary is much different from the average wage in the sector, it should start ringing a few bells at the IRS. Such action should cease, there should be no joint exclusion from the payment of maintenance. I dare say that if some people may feel that it is an honor, then if the IRS knocks on the door, it may not be such an honor anymore. I'm sure we're still looking for solutions. Avoiding the payment of a living is, in my opinion, a disgrace. I read online reviews from time to time, even though I know a politician shouldn't read them. Very often it is written that, for this or another reason, payment is being evaded. I think it's a disgrace. I agree with you. This must be dealt with and pressure must be put on the money to be paid. The solution is certainly not that the state intervenes and starts to pay. That is not what I consider to be the solution, because it would only encourage marginalisation. Rather, social and administrative pressure must be so strong that people fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U75	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the large number of prisoners. Is it possible to comment on the number of prisoners in Estonian prison who are growing around there for the first time and on the number of prisoners who are in prison for several times? Are we different from other European countries here, or are we somehow similar to others in these proportions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U77	Thank you. I'm sorry, I don't have those accounts with me. I'd be happy to send you this material in writing. In general, there are, unfortunately, repetitions, so-called relapses, and the re-entry into prison, still more frequent than we'd like. However, I do not believe that we stand out very negatively in this key in Europe. But I'll send you these numbers, and then you'll be able to look more closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U78	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, too, thank you for this report. You gave a number of positive examples of Europe in your presentation, saying that tackling the concerns of young people must be tackled in the Nordic way. In terms of the number of prisoners, we are one of the first in Europe. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for harmonising Estonian legislation with European law. What other problems do you see here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U80	Thank you. After all, this harmonisation is constantly taking place. If you're thinking more about penal law issues, I can just theorize. This subject has not been prepared for this presentation; it is not part of the work plan. There have been many voices on this issue in Europe. There is currently some degree of convergence of sanctioning rates, which concerns very complex crimes extending across national borders. When I speak with other ministers for justice in Europe, I have realised that there are many who believe that there will be some convergence between the European side of sanctions in 20 to 30 years' time and the whole policy. But this does not mean that Estonia, as an independent state, should not make an effort and, in my opinion, contribute primarily to prevention and preventive action. I can't tell you the troubles. I think it is important to base itself on common sense and to actively participate in Europe. This is one of the future issues for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U81	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U82	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Thank you for saying that the Ida-Virumaa action plan must be taken seriously. So do the Social Democrats. You mentioned the possible transfer of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County. It would certainly help to improve the criminogenic situation in this region if such a strong national justice structure were to come. I know the government has been discussing this for a long time. If you want to share your opinion with us, would you say, have you developed a position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U83	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U84	Thank you. The Ministry of Interior has commissioned an impact assessment and financial analysis from Riigi Kinnisvara AS. On this basis, I think the government can start discussing this issue. You have to see how cost effective it is and how it can be done. I think this should be discussed seriously. There are people in the Ministry of Justice as well as in other areas who have said that they would be happy to take the whole department along and go to Ida-Virumaa to strengthen Estonia. I guess this degree of patriotism may be different for people. On the other hand, the transfer of the National Defence Academy, as these same lecturers in Tallinn say, would cause inconvenience. The quality of education may deteriorate at the National Defence Academy. All of this needs to be considered. We don't just have to chop it one way or the other, we have to discuss it. Similarly, when people have justified concerns, you must listen. I look forward to this debate, but I am also convinced that Ida-Virumaa must be dealt with and this agenda must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Justice! Thank you very much for your interesting presentation. I have read the developments in criminal policy with great interest, and I am sure of that belief that the role of pre-emptive work is very important. The question, however, is the cooperation of ministries. For example, the school drop-out of young people and children, often a boy, is on the one hand the subject of the Ministry of Education and Research, but also the subject of the Ministry of Justice, because these young people can get on the wrong track, and it is certainly also the subject of the Ministry of Social Affairs and several other ministries. Has the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Justice discussed the closure of educational institutions for young people with special needs for the purpose of eliminating and optimising the costs that are currently taking place? This may lead to the need to deal with the consequences later and to pay a thousand euros per month for detention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U86	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U87	We've discussed this in a different key. I know that there will be business meetings of ministerial officials dealing with education and special schools. The previous Minister of Justice and, in my opinion, the Chancellors of Justice have pointed out that special schools, which rather produce crime, are not effective. When you read the report, you learned that a very large number of people who come from special schools commit an offence or any other act that is punishable under the Penal Code during the year. I think that this issue needs to be dealt with further. Let's just say that with the Ministry of Education, we have a working contact here, but this process is run by them, it's in no way within the competence of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we know, the conversion of an adult is a completely impossible task, not even a powerful Soviet repression system. So what is very important is what is happening to children and young people. Therefore, I ask: are the crimes committed by young people and crimes against young people listed in the coalition agreement? How important is this in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U89	Thank you. Amazingly, we are in complete agreement. As I have already said, I am convinced that it is very difficult to rearrange people who have made informed choices and do not want to give up these choices. Rather, it is young people and young people who need to be dealt with. I can't tell by heart what the text of the coalition agreement is. However, dealing with juvenile delinquency is a long-agreed priority between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. In fact, it's their priorities, how to say, at least in TOP 5, as a modern language. That may be the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U90	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question, too, concerns juvenile delinquency. You said that the best way to keep young people out of crime is to give them an interest and an activity at all. The Praxis survey shows that young people who are active are active on several fronts, but nearly half of young people are excluded from their activities of interest and are not interested either when opportunities for interest are created. What measures are being taken to prevent young people who have been excluded from the activities of interest from crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U92	Thank you. I think the answer was in the question itself. In general, young people's activities of interest start not only with activities of interest, but also with the development of values and attitudes from what opportunities are available. In fact, both the state and municipalities should strive to create sports opportunities, leisure opportunities and to provide young people with activities that are developing and have nothing to do with alcohol consumption. This should also be done through funding for the society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U93	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good waitress! Recently, quite a few people who have been punished by the Estonian court have not gone to prison in time, but are on the run somewhere. The most drastic is the Anna-Maria Galojan case. What do you think should be done to avoid such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U95	Thank you. I think it would be best if they didn't commit crimes, they wouldn't be waiting in jail. But if they've committed a crime, they should still go to jail. Experts say that even if they delay their sentence for some time, sooner or later they'll end up in prison. I very much hope that this will happen in the case you described. I have asked the officials of the Ministry of Justice to analyse the practice of other countries. There are countries where there are additional penalty days for circumvention or non-compliance, and there are countries where some other penalty is provided for. I think this is a subject that should be discussed. While my personal conviction is that if a person avoids punishment, and the Estonian state, the Estonian internal security system, maybe the External Action Service, and the ghost knows who else has to spend taxpayers' money to look for and bring him back, then either the bill or the penalty could be issued for it. I think it will be dealt with in the near future. As with all things, we are doing an analysis of the practice and experience of other countries on this subject, and then I will probably come to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U96	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Access to justice is also linked to today's topic. There were no changes to the criminal proceedings, but the amendment was made to the Code of Administrative Court Procedure during this year. Legal translation will be demanded at 12.78 euros per hour. How do you comment on this? Do you think this will make it difficult for people to access justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U98	Thank you. This topic was also discussed in the House of Judges in Narva, where I went last week. That's where I said what I'm saying here. I have spoken to the people in this area of the Ministry of Justice as well as to the judges who were involved in making this change. This change was made a long time ago, and now it just came into force. I think that this is a bottleneck, and I think that this bottleneck should be removed in the context of the draft law on the reduction of state fees. Wherever possible, such obstacles or, let's say, aspects that, looking at the judges, waste court time and bring more questionable work could be discussed. I think that this problem could disappear with regard to the draft law on the reduction of state fees. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U99	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. The first is Marko Pomerance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U100	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for his meaningful presentation. I will bring out a few keywords that I have memorized and which I would like to highlight as a representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Sometimes it's nice when the prophecies don't come true. I mean, we assumed that the number of crimes against property would increase, that the euro would be counterfeited, but that has not happened. That's a good result. Now for alcohol policy. Probably the key word here is that no matter how we talk, the smart one can handle alcohol in most cases anyway. The question is that alcohol policy is needed for people who are not that reasonable. Life has shown that when it comes to alcohol consumption, the proportion of unreasonable people in society is significant. My appeal is that we are still trying to find substantive measures. At one point, the Ministry of Social Affairs is coming before us on this subject. Of course, there is such a dilemma before the law enforcement authorities that, on the one hand, it is, of course, right to call for small cases to be reported. However, the other side is how we can organise the procedure effectively so that we can achieve results even in smaller cases at reasonable costs. Now, about dealing with the drafts of the future. As regards surveillance and punishment of sexual offenders, the Committee on Legal Affairs will launch these drafts next Monday and will bring them to you for the first reading shortly. One very important keyword in which I too look forward to results is the realisation of evidence. If these evidences are so small that they can be put on a shelf on top of each other, then it's not such a big problem. But in Estonia, cars are also gathering as evidence, which are finally, I don't know, tens of years old and take considerably more space than some of these little gadgets. Once this evidence can be returned, it will no longer have any value. The effectiveness of misdemeanor procedures is certainly important. It is known that the number of police officers does not increase, so they need to be able to do more work in the same time unit. Mr Maruse spoke about the large number of sentences and about the fact that there are around 22% of those in the Penal Code that have never been used. Should we be happy or unhappy about this? I say that we must be positive, which means that punishment of criminals will not remain behind the Penal Code in most cases and that there will be potential in the existing Penal Code. If, at the moment, the likelihood of being punished for a crime is 50: 50, we hope that, in the combination of all these measures, we will achieve the situation described by one former top athlete, who is constantly in trouble with the law, in Finland, 50: 60. I am thinking of Matti Nykänen, who is probably still serving a sentence in some detention facilities. So the strength of the day-to-day laborers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U101	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask Kalle Jents for a chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U102	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues interested in criminal policy, who are still in the Chamber! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for an interesting and analytical presentation. On behalf of our group, I would like to make some of the following points. Of course, we would like to see crime shrinking and at a much faster pace than it is now, both inside and outside this hall. But let us admit that the 12% reduction is quite impressive. Indeed, it is surprising that despite the years of recession, the number of crimes against property decreased by as much as 19%. At the same time, we are all concerned about the increase in the number of crimes against individuals and, unfortunately, about the increase in the number of serious crimes such as killings and murders. The Minister also addressed violent deaths in the same context, i.e. road, fire, drowning deaths, which are also high. The number of traffic offences is also high. Only yesterday was the same subject quite actively discussed in this Chamber when the Minister of the Interior responded to the questions. Solutions were sought, which could then be done to change this situation as a matter of urgency. I do not want to agree with the arguments that sounded like insufficient resources yesterday in this Chamber. Even if we were to multiply the number of practitioners, this would certainly not automatically help to reduce the number of serious crimes significantly. I think the reasons why these things happen are considerably deeper and depend on the level of development of our society, values and attitudes to life. There has been a great deal of talk in this Chamber today about alcohol, and the Minister also devoted a very important part of his presentation to it. It is hard not to accept that alcohol is one serious reason why such things happen to us. Unfortunately, we are still at the forefront of alcohol consumption per capita in Europe. It's easy to say we ban, restrict sales, limit advertising. Unfortunately, we know that bans and orders are not a panacea. Here I agree with the Minister that it is absolutely necessary to change people's habits, which are rooted in quite a number of generations and already in another social order. These changes, unfortunately, will not take years, but probably decades. It is therefore particularly important to pay attention to the development of a new generation. Undoubtedly, the detection of crimes has a preventive effect on their performance. Of course, the positive example was that the detection of crimes increased from 48.5% to 55% compared to 2010. Certainly, the preventive effect is greater in the case of minor offences. It means you're getting worse knowing that if you sit on the steering wheel when you're not sober, and you hit the bottom of the accelerator, you're gonna get caught anyway. I think the police here have done a great deal of good work, and I also think that people's compliance has not diminished, rather more offenders have been discovered. When we talk about the upbringing of future generations, I would like to say that they are not hollow slogans when, in the context of criminal policy, we talk about the education of children, about the education of interest, about leisure opportunities, about sports, about the consumption of culture. This is important not only for children and young people, but also for adults and families. That was the subject of the Minister's attention. It is a pleasure to note that popular sport and healthy lifestyles are becoming more and more important among our people. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U103	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U104	The state and municipalities have invested heavily in health sports facilities, but people themselves should also invest more. We love to compare ourselves with Finland. Finns spend several times more on sports activities than the people of Estonia. The situation in the criminal landscape and the statistical comparisons of recent years indicate a moderate move towards a reduction in crime, but we have a long way to reach the desired Nordic level. However, this does not mean that we should change the principles of criminal policy and talk about a significant increase in the membership of law enforcement bodies or tightening up the criminal policy. We found out we already have twice as many prisoners. It is clear that the construction of new prisons and the maintenance of prisoners are very costly for society. At the same time, it is known that excessive implementation of the sentence of deprivation of liberty is a negative consequence of recurrent crime. But, of course, it is right and necessary that the Penal Code and penal policy be reviewed from time to time. We also found out it was happening right now. According to the Minister of Justice, there will be no major changes in criminal proceedings in 2012. However, it might be worth discussing how to shorten the time limits for certain types of proceedings in criminal matters. Unfortunately, in certain types of more complex matters, such as corruption, bribery or something like that, we have a number of examples where suspicion was raised, the media were informed, but then the criminal case did not arrive in court for months and sometimes for more than a year. There have also been cases when a person was arrested for six months, but real investigative activities only started when the detention period expired. If, in such cases, the guilt of the persons suspected cannot be established, the damage caused to those persons and their loved ones is irreparable. At the same time, the public is also looking forward to the swift and effective handling of criminal cases which have called for a high level of attention and to reaching a decision within a normal period of time. In conclusion, I want strength for all those who stand for Estonia to remain a rule of law and for the number of law-abiding citizens to become even greater in society!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U105	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group in Andres Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U106	Madam President! Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much to the Minister of Justice for a very interesting presentation. I wrote everything I deserved because I was very involved in his thinking. I will allow myself a quick overview, both myself and certainly, of the members of my group, and I think that many of our fellow Members in this regard. At the beginning of his speech, the Minister of Justice also stressed that criminal policy is cross-party, and even if it is not sometimes, it must move that way. I think this is very important because crime affects all of us, regardless of the outlook we carry in our souls. As far as statistics are concerned, I am certainly optimistic too, because the number of crimes has started to decrease, and this has actually happened a decade ago. But at the same time, you always have to take into account the term sock, or statistically everything's fine. The availability of the legal system will certainly have an impact on statistics. We have also had debates on this issue in the Riigikogu. As my good colleague, Kalle Jents, said, not that the police are few, but, as I say, the police are also not available despite the resources that are currently available. I always give this example here, which I also recalled in the Committee on Legal Affairs. While the downtown police station was then moved from Pärnu Road to Kolde Avenue, crime in the city centre fell, if I am not mistaken, 19%. That means that the police are within reach, too, is very important. I wouldn't be too optimistic about sending a crime report to the prefecture's e-mail address, but it's not gonna end up in spam. When it comes to the very important thing that the Minister has also pointed out, that is to say, how wrong behaviour is in society, say, low behaviour, heavy alcohol and drug consumption, especially against personal crime, violent crime, that is really the connection. But I would like to point out here that, if we saw a great deal of self-interest among the violent crimes in the early 1990s, crimes committed in the form of revenge, or organised crime, now crime has gone more on the backyard, precisely to the social groups most affected by the misbehavior caused by alcohol. Here is a possible complex of activities quite wide. I cannot quite agree that reducing advertising is a populist activity. Absolutely not. Advertising is not, first of all, a ban and an order, as has been said here, advertising is a commercial recommendation. We do not advertise cigarettes, for example, and the result is that smoking is decreasing in Estonia. Personally, I don't smoke for a month and a half either because of this campaign that says don't kill yourself. That's one side of it. The other side, which I certainly want to point out, is that it is not of little importance to send a proactive signal to social groups under this same penal code. At the end of last year, I went to a number of women's crisis homes and talked to the workers who worked hard there. After all, women often come with bigger children. I happened to talk to a family son in Viljandi County who was with his mother in a crisis house and was already in adulthood. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U107	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U108	He did not understand the criminalisation or deplorability of domestic violence. He felt that when a father gives his mother a pan or a pot to his father, it is part of a normal family relationship. This, however, is not exactly the case. I think more knowledge is needed here. I would stress that the fact that some of the sections of the Penal Code do not work in the sense that we do not see the judgments given on them is very good. For God's sake, if the illegal use of a red flare was a daily activity in Estonia, it would be a pretty strange sight. That's precisely why it says not to fly that flare up pointlessly. I think that the Penal Code certainly has a greater social dimension in society, also in terms of prevention. As an aggravating factor in the introduction of violence against violent crimes, I think it should be taken into account yesterday, just as the Minister of the Interior said, that almost a quarter of the killings take place in the family, and the next type of killing is the case when the killing takes place in the company of people who are familiar with each other. Of course, there's nothing we can do about these distillers, and they're not gonna read the criminal code drunk until they stab each other. But we're talking about protecting the family just like we're protecting a police officer, for example. Assault on a police officer is more punishable precisely because we defend public authority. If we declare at constitutional level that family is a good thing, I think it deserves to be protected in the Penal Code. As far as youth activities are concerned, there is indeed a connection to violent crimes. An English sociologist (I'm not going to give you a name right now, if anyone cares, I'll specify later) did some polls after the completely incomprehensible youth riots in London, where there was no racism or religion, but just smashed up everything. He found a link between these events in London and the withdrawal of money from the budget for interest and club activities in municipal politics during the recession. We too made a political choice and directly touched on criminal policy when we made the necessary cuts in Estonia. But it was also possible to make choices between the cuts. The withdrawal of the obligation to ensure that young people are interested in the local government, together with budget money, will certainly lead to a situation where young people are in a larger risk group. I think that criminal policy is a very important policy area for the future, and there must be five to ten years in advance. Despite the fact that I am a member of the opposition, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice, who is essentially involved in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U109	Thank you very much. Peter Võsa next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U110	Minister, thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The presentation was comprehensive, spiced with statistics and figures. Yes, it can be a joy that crime is falling, and the workers must be commended for the work they have done. But when it comes to statistics, you can look it up and down. That's what we all know. I want to refer to a few bottlenecks. Of course, first and foremost, we must be grateful for the hard work that has been done for the policemen who are doing this job for a small salary. But some things aren't really the way we're being presented here. It is nice to have a stand-by statement that criminal policy must be rational and cross-party, yes, in many respects that is the case, and also science-based. It is good if the Ministry thinks that the effects of all major legislative changes must be analysed before and after implementation of the law. If, on several occasions, an analysis is required in this Chamber before any legislative changes are made, and if and how they have been made, it can be looked at by anyone in the verbatim. Obviously, the situation is not as good as we would like. The fight against crimes that threaten life is considered a priority. The fight against crimes committed by minors and against minors is also a priority. As far as I know, it's even in a coalition agreement. I asked my benchmate to ask me about this because I had already realised my question. Now for juvenile delinquency. We do not see tables explaining juvenile delinquency here. If the priorities are set in this way, I would like to ask: how can we give our approval if we do not see what is really happening? I have seen one of the other statistics on the basis of which the number of crimes against property has generally decreased, but the number of crimes against property committed by minors is actually increasing. The same statistics confirm that the number of juvenile primary offenders has decreased, but reversibility is increasing. I would have liked to have seen these figures here today in depth under discussion, but I didn't. Why this is being kept from us, I cannot say it, but I suspect that it would show too clearly the trend that the youth police are being put into work in traffic surveillance as part of the development of a single police force for law enforcement. Traffic surveillance has been done just like Priority 1. I do not deny that this is important, but note: the magnitude of road deaths and violent deaths is more or less the same. Is there no place to ask: what kind of communication we have done, what we have done? Traffic propaganda, yes, has been done very well. What about the deaths of violence? Doesn't the police pay disproportionate attention to road deaths? The biggest drawback of this statistics, in my opinion, is that there is no key indicator here. I would like to see a change in crime per 10,000 inhabitants over the years by all crimes. Why isn't it here? Okay, but, uh, okay. There are still shortcomings, they could be referred to even more, but I don't want to complain. Far from it. These are just mistakes that I would ask you not to repeat again. If we do not repeat them, the statistics will be understandable, understandable and fair, and we will be better able to orient ourselves with it. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U111	One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U112	This is because we can say next year and next year and after a hundred years that Estonia is indeed a good and safe place to live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U113	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Do you want a final word? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for these thoughts, and I think that all the questions that have been asked for here today will also be answered. The ideas that were said here are quite the same. I just wanted to fix what Peter Võsa said as a representative of the Central Party that there are no crime statistics. Actually, it's available. I invite you to go to www.just.ee (this is not a magazine, it is a website of the Ministry of Justice) where all the statistics are available, a monthly barometer of crime for all types of crime. If any data is not available, ask and we will be happy to give them to you. The one thing I've been standing for at the Ministry of Justice is that we actually have very good analytical resources and capabilities. When the studies and analyses are completed, they will become public on the same day. Maybe I didn't get all the statistics in the report, but I suggest you take a look at it. Suddenly there are good ideas that can be exchanged in the Committee on Legal Affairs or elsewhere. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who took part in this debate. I hope that our joint work will continue to be just as fruitful as it has been so far. I think that next week, we will be discussing jointly in the Committee on Legal Affairs how to castrated those who should be castrated and how to limit stalking, so that fundamental human rights are better guaranteed. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U115	Thank you very much. The discussion of the 2011 Annual Implementation Report in the Riigikogu has been exhausted. Thank you very much to all participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U116	The next item is the statement by Marko Mihkelson, Margus Tsahkna, Kaia Iva, Tõnis Lukas, Andres Herkel, Priit Sibula, Ülo Tulik, Andrus Saare, Sven Sester, Peeter Laursoni, Aivar Koka, Annely Akkermanni, Siim Kabritsa, Toomas Tõniste, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Andres Jalaku, Helmen Küti, Urmas Reinsalu, Marianne Mikko, Valdo Randpere, Peep Aru, Sven Mikseri, Indrek Saare, Jaanus Tamkivi, Väino Linde, Marko Pomerantsi, Lauri Luige, Margus Hanson, Tõiv, Eiki Nestori, Arto Aasa, Remo Holsmeri, Rait Marvi, Jüri Jaansoni, Mati Raidma, Kalle Raidi, Kalani Laani, Tõnistuuuuuuu, Andri, Andre, Andrevel, Andrevel, Ansvel, Riseveli. Since the draft statements are rarely discussed in the Riigikogu, let me introduce the procedure for processing this draft. First, the presentation of the representative of the drafters, which shall last up to 20 minutes, shall be followed by a presentation of the representative of the commission, which shall also last up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a question to either of the rapporteurs. Subsequent negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor during the negotiations. This will be followed by a final vote. Let's get to first reading. I ask Marko Mihkelson, member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U117	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present the draft statement by the Riigikogu on 'Expression to the citizens of Estonia', which was presented last week in parliamentary proceedings by 44 parliamentarians from all the political groups represented in the parliament. The Estonian state has a large moral debt of honour, which has been expected to be extinguished for many years. There is no doubt that it is the duty of each country to remember and acknowledge those who have fought for him and risked and suffered for him. Estonia has, in one way or another, commemorated those who have fallen for freedom, but so far the Riigikogu has not recognised the people who stood for the restoration of Estonia's national independence and in one way or another fought against the totalitarian regimes that occupied Estonia. Thanks to political consensus, we have now reached this historic moment, on the brink of Independence Day. The Riigikogu is about to recognise the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, who were acting in the name of the de facto restoration of the Republic of Estonia during the years of the Soviet Union or the national socialist German occupation. At this point, it is not unnecessary to recall that the Republic of Estonia was occupied by the Soviet Union against international law in 1940-1941, the National Socialist Germany in 1941-1944, and the Soviet Union again in 1944-1991. In World War II and as a result of occupations, the Republic of Estonia lost one fifth of its population as killed, imprisoned, deported or refugees. Estonian citizens opposed both the German and Soviet occupations. The Estonian people wanted the restoration of Estonia's national independence, which is why the fight against the occupying powers and the restoration of independence took place in the form of both armed and unarmed resistance. I'm just going to give you one example of a whole lot of potential. In 1947, the schoolchildren of Võru set up an organisation for young people in the province. On the night of February 24, 1948, flyers and blue - black - white flags were distributed in Võru. The streets were divided between groups, two were worked, leaflets and flags were attached to the walls and planks of the house with nails. The flyers were mainly written by hand, in block capitals, or printed in rubber cut-out letters, and they had the following text: "Estonian men and the learning youth! Organise underground combat groups, gather in groups all the faithful sons of the Fatherland who are willing to give everything free for the rebirth of Estonia! The day when the whole world starts a decisive fight against Russia's reign of terror is not far off. Estonian men! Get weapons and ammunition and show up at the first invitation of the underground organization of the young caperjanovs to fight for their fatherland! Long live and cast down the spirit of the War of Independence in our hearts, let the wearers of the blue black and white flag live! Death to the red executioners! " Two years later, Soviet Special Service units arrested 49 members of the supernovian organization, almost everyone who had been active. The leaders of the organization were sentenced to 25 years, members of the prison camp for 10 years. By making our statement today, we are based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the fact that the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, which was occupied in World War II, was not interrupted. The statement of the Riigikogu comes before another important deadline, which adds symbolicity to our decision today. This summer marks the 20th anniversary of the restoration of constitutional order in Estonia. In the referendum of 28 June 1992, the citizens of Estonia, remember, approved the Constitution, which in turn was based on the Constitution of 1938. It has re-established a free, democratic and rule of law society. This was made possible by the self-denial of tens of thousands of Estonian citizens during difficult years of occupation. In making today's statement, the Riigikogu also condemns the repressive policies of the Soviet Union and National Socialist Germany and the actions of those who committed crimes against humanity in the service of these regimes, regardless of their nationality and the place where they were committed. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this draft statement. This is how we perform our moral duty to all our citizens who, in their sincere will, during a long period of occupation, acted to restore Estonia's national independence. The Estonian people unreservedly condemn both of these military occupations. There was no justification for such aggression against the Republic of Estonia. Estonia will respect its freedom fighters forever. A deep bow to them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U118	Thank you very much for the waitress. Any questions? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Please come back because Andres Herkel has a question. Please react a little faster! Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U119	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to this statement refers to the statement made by the Riigikogu since 2002 condemning the crimes of occupation regimes, as well as the relevant documents of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. In addition to Estonia, the parliaments of many countries have adopted such statements condemning the crimes of occupation regimes. Have there been, or is this somehow a novel aspect, that we are bringing in here, statements that also recognise citizens for armed combat?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U120	Thank you. I said in my speech that it is the duty of each country to recognise in one way or another all its citizens who have fought for the independence and freedom of the country. This has been done in different ways in different countries. This step, which we are taking today with the adoption of this declaration, is, first and foremost, important for all Estonian citizens whose actions in restoring the independence of the Estonian state are worthy of recognition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U121	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I was asked to ask this question: what does it mean that we are talking about the citizens of the Republic of Estonia in this text? At what time were they supposed to be citizens of the Republic of Estonia? Does this recognition also apply, for example, to people who were not citizens of the Republic of Estonia when they supported the independence of the Republic of Estonia standing in the Baltic Way, but who today are Estonian citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U123	Thank you for that question. As stated in the draft statement, we congratulate all the citizens of the Republic of Estonia who have stood up for it or acted in their actions to restore Estonia's national independence. I think that anyone who has taken steps in his actions at different times can be commended by this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U124	Thank you very much. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This is a commendable and long-awaited statement, which has been the subject of long preparatory work. However, there are still groups of resistance movement in Estonia, bleeding in the fight for freedom, who have not been completely rehabilitated due to legal nuances. Does this statement also provide an opportunity to eliminate these legal nuances and to eliminate this injustice against these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U126	Thank you for that question. With this statement, we give political recognition first and foremost. This is a political statement and we will once again express our moral gratitude to all Estonian citizens who, during the years of the various occupations, were working to restore Estonia's national independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U127	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U128	Thank you. Good waitress! What would be the answer to those critics who have claimed that this statement is not fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U129	Thank you. I think this statement is very fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U130	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U131	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Personally, I have always lived and behaved in accordance with the principles of free Estonia. It seems to me that this statement is too soft. Shouldn't we still be a little bolder and better?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U132	Thank you for that question. I'm very pleased that, despite your opinion, you've joined the initiators. I think that when you read this text very thoroughly, it says much more than you could say a few very long texts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U133	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, Is this now the first step towards Harald Nugiseks finally receiving some national awards, or is it too much to expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U135	Thank you. I stress once again that by publishing this recognition here in the Riigikogu, we certainly do not pay attention to individuals or individual groups. We don't make lists. In my opinion, it is very important that the Riigikogu, with its statement today, hopefully doing so with political consensus, as we saw at the meeting of the leading committee, congratulates all those Estonian citizens who, in one way or another, acted to restore Estonia's national independence during the years of occupation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U136	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. I'm asking for the Chair of the National Defence Commission Chairman Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U137	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft statement, which 44 members of the Riigikogu submitted on 8 February, before submitting to the first reading at their meeting on 9 February. The purpose of the draft statement by the Riigikogu under discussion is to give recognition to Estonian citizens who acted in the name of the de facto restoration of the Republic of Estonia during the years of the Soviet Union or National Socialist Germany. § 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states: "The duty of an Estonian citizen is to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence. If no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. " Let us acknowledge those who exercise this right. It also condemns once again the repressive policies of the Soviet Union and the National Socialist Germany and the actions of those who committed crimes against humanity in the service of these regimes. The National Defence Committee decided on its s. a at the meeting on 9 February, by consensus, propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft statement under discussion be included for the first reading on the agenda of the fifth working week of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 14 February. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. In addition, at the meeting on 9 February, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft statement be put to the final vote at first reading and adopted as a statement by the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U138	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U139	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will partly continue Yana Toom's question to the previous waitress. How do you think the term 'Estonian citizen' is interpreted in this statement? Is it an Estonian citizen who, during the Soviet period, had an Estonian citizen's passport in a basement somewhere, or is the Estonian citizen understood more widely than the Estonians who fought for the de facto restoration of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U140	Thank you. I quoted the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which states the court of an Estonian citizen. As a result, it is also our moral duty as members of the Riigikogu to recognise those citizens who have realised the meaning of the Constitution in their actions in their resistance to restore Estonia's independence. It's a moral assessment. As mentioned above, this statement does not contain any lists or exceptions. When a person inside feels that he has contributed, I see no reason why he cannot feel that feeling positively and appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U141	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Urmas Reinsalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U142	Good people's representation! Today is the most important moment in my time as a vigilante. I think of many men and women alive today and those who have left this world. A few weeks ago, I had an appointment with Heli Sus, who put it to my heart that we, the younger generation, must acknowledge those who fought for the restoration of Estonia's freedom with a clear statement from Parliament. Legal continuity is the basis for this recognition. Legal consistency is our shield. It is a great privilege, but it cannot be applied intermittently. Legal consistency is also an obligation that must be implemented with dignity, whether it concerns border issues, citizenship or ownership. That is what the Riigikogu statement is about. The legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia is one of the legal foundations of Estonian statehood restored in 1991. Internationally, Estonia is regarded as a country created in 1918 and not as a country formed after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Between 1940 and 1991 Estonia was occupied. This principle has been recognised both by the Western countries and by the European Court of Human Rights. In September 1944 Jüri Uluots formed a government, which is part of the continuity of Estonia, as Prime Minister in the duties of the President of the Republic. The role of Jüri Uluots as a bearer of Estonian national continuity in a situation where Konstantin Päts, deported to the Soviet Union and later imprisoned, could not perform his duties, was recognised already in the autumn of 1941 when it became clear that Jüri Uluots, who was also on the list of deportations, had managed to escape. Jüri Uluots' public appeal, based on the principle of legal continuity, was an expression of the national will of Estonia. The men and women who fought against the occupation of Estonia on this basis deserve to be recognised as freedom fighters afterwards, as do hundreds of members of the national resistance movement during the German occupation, who were victims of repression by the German occupation powers, and thousands of Finnish boys who fled to Finland to prevent German mobilization in order to fight against the Soviet Union in the Finnish army. The resistance to communist totalitarianism, however, did not end with the destruction of Otto Tief's government. The leading Western countries did not recognise the occupation of the Baltic countries; the diplomatic representations of the Republic of Estonia could continue their activities. The resistance continued in the home country in the autumn of 1944 by the resistance movement, which the people called members of the forest brothers. Tens of thousands of men and women who were hiding from Soviet rule and/or actively resisting Soviet rule can be considered a forest brother. Thousands of forest brothers fell in the fight, more forest brothers and those who helped them were victims of repression. The Soviet authorities managed to destroy active armed resistance by the mid 1950s, but few forest brothers continued to hide themselves until the last decades of the Soviet Union. Their struggle undoubtedly deserves the full recognition of the Estonian state. The resistance from the forest brothers was taken over mainly by underground resistance organisations made up of school youths. Some of them had emerged earlier, but most of them were active in the 1950s. Most of them were destroyed by security agencies. The members of the resistance organisations had to pay for their activities with a long term prison sentence. During the following decades, so-called dissidents acted to restore Estonia's statehood, although this period has also been called the time of public resistance. The resistance was borne both by illegal organisations and underground publications, as well as by men and women who, through various public approaches, letters or demonstrations, stood against the totalitarian system. A large number of them paid for their activities, whether through repression or imprisonment. All their activities led to the restoration of Estonian statehood and therefore deserves the unambiguous recognition of the Republic of Estonia. The actions of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia in order to restore their statehood were not interrupted either in occupied Estonia or outside Estonia, and led to the restoration of Estonia's independence and its international recognition in 1991. The actions of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia for the restoration of their country are one of the most important factors that distinguishes Estonia from Latvia and Lithuania from those countries that arose after the final collapse of the Soviet Union in the last quarter of 1991. By its decision, the Estonian National Council recognises that the state has consistent and lasting obligations to stand up for its citizens. Recognition of Estonia's actions for independence is also a code of conduct in making a choice in the present and future situations. The recognition of those who fought for the restoration of Estonia's freedom will not end with this statement, but will continue. I hope that, in the coming years, we will jointly open a monument to the resistance fight in Iceland Square. The Act on the person repressed by the occupation regimes adopted by the Riigikogu in 2003 defines the categories of persons whom the Republic of Estonia recognises as victims of illegal repression. The majority of the persons belonging to the above categories are also covered by one or the other definition of that law. The purpose of the declaration is to pay the honorable debt of the Republic of Estonia to those who, despite Nazi or Soviet occupation, did not lose faith in the values of the independent Republic of Estonia and took real steps to restore the Republic of Estonia. The Riigikogu will bow its head before you in the name of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U143	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our group has asked me, as a historian, to deal with the preparation of the analysis of this issue. I got a little stuck with this. At first glance, it may seem that today's declaration is about history. That's not really the case. History is a tough and complicated thing. To understand this, this rather simple document, which we are working on today, does not add anything important. What can we add when Lennart Meri said a long time ago that World War II was not the civil war of Estonians, that crimes against humanity were timeless, but brotherly hatred was not? Or what to add to the 85-year-old freedom fighter's letter, who wrote that World War II was a forced war against Estonia and we fought against each other as coercive enemies? World War II was a great tragedy of a small country and nation that must never happen again. However, as I have already said, this is not a question of history, because otherwise we should start talking about a much more multilayered pie. We should start talking about the fact that there was an occupation and maybe even something worse than it was an annexation and so on. But historians know that most of the declarations do not give rise to an assessment of the subject under assessment, but they do receive information about the evaluators. Declarations for this purpose are, and certainly have, their value as such. History must know, but you can't live in it. This declaration must therefore also be looked at with the eye of day-to-day policy. There are both pros that I would like to talk about in a festive tone and the cons. I think we can talk about them. A good old truth has been repeatedly said in this chair of speech that Parliament generally avoids all kinds of declarations. Parliament's work is different. Today, too, I am refraining from referencing some of the earlier declarations adopted by our Parliament in the hurrah, which, in retrospect, seems quite flawed, especially when compared to the amendments proposed for the same document but voted down. It is not the emergence and signing of a document that is acceptable today that has followed Western models of democracy. It was just as it was in the Estonian Parliament and as it is possible for us to do. It would probably have been correct for those who were asked to sign to ask for participation in the preparation of the document, but this time it just went differently. We discussed the declaration in our group and reached the following understandings. We found that this declaration has its value in order to move life and work forward in this direction. Surely people who have dedicated their soul and body power to the restoration and preservation of their country deserve credit. I guess we all have people in the family or family we're talking about today in this statement. So am I. (I heard a laugh. Let me be clear: I am not thinking of myself, but I am thinking of my grandfather, who fought for the freedom of Estonia and was the boyfriend of the Liberty Cross. Thank you for bringing this to the attention with laughter!) But we also discussed that these people lack not only recognition, but many of them lack better living conditions. Those members of the Riigikogu who receive encouragement and support from the declaration and who do not intend to recognise these people in future not only in words but also intend to work on practical steps in this direction have a moral right and also a moral obligation to vote in favour of this declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U145	Would you like three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U146	Please! We also felt that those who consider it necessary to correct the mistakes made in life should vote in favour of this declaration, be it their own mistakes or those of others. Those who do not want Estonia to be seen as a small and vicious Nazi in Europe should also vote in favour. It is these trends that the foreign diplomats have unfortunately told us. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the reasons why I am voting in favour of this declaration and recommending others to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U147	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for the next chair of speech, Mart Mere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U148	Madam President! Respectable Riigikogu! The novelty of the statement of the Riigikogu that we are discussing today is quite clear in two ways. First, its remarkable shortness stands out. Shortness lies in the charm of the assumption that it is exhaustive. Secondly, it does give credit, but not to the uniforms, not even the mother tongue, but to the people, to the citizens of Estonia, who, during the occupation of Soviet and Nazi Germany in 1940-1991, did not give up the idea of independence, who were convinced or at least hoped that the loss of state would be temporary, and who, despite the circumstances or circumstances of the occupation, acted in the name of the restoration of an independent Estonian state. These people had to cope with their present. Dealing with the past is sometimes just as difficult; it has been a cause for concern for many nations and countries. Estonian society is no exception here. The statement here is yet another sign of how it survives in an inconclusive way. The explanatory memorandum to the draft statement contains a reference to a number of international and national documents, with which Estonia has condemned the crimes of occupation regimes, but also recognised the resistance fighters. Isn't this about breaking and entering an open door today? Repeating political statements with similar content will eventually devalue their content and spray the message into the rhetoric of everyday life. Is today's statement practical or just a momentary, random day-to-day value? As a originator, I hope that's not the case. I am here on behalf of the Socialist Group of Ambassadors, but I would also like to make a presentation in the interests of better, more reasonable management of the past. We have memories, we have knowledge, we have facts, but we're lucky we haven't had an occupation in a long time. Estonia is free and I want to hope that now Estonian society will be able to cope with its history in a balanced, open and honest manner. This statement places a greater emphasis on sympathy, not condemnation, as is often the case with such texts. Today we congratulate all the brave Estonian people who, in word and deed, defended and supported the continuation of the idea of independence throughout the time of the loss of state, and those who began to restore their statehood either in the Popular Front, in the Citizens' Committees or in heritage conservation societies, regardless of religion and mother tongue. This could be the key to a broader interpretation of today's statement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U149	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair in Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's strange to think that for eight years I've been working here in the Riigikogu. When I was first chosen here, my ancestors, gray-haired like those present here, said, "Look, boy, to stand up for those boys who once received terrible water and whistles, and to somehow, somehow, receive recognition. ' I am glad that we have found this collective wisdom to come out of this dilemma, which is not really easy at all. I remember very well when the same grey-headed dignified people came to our group. I was playing with a gesture of two hands: from here, from the heart, I understand you, but from here, from the head, it's all so hard to do. We know who were allies in World War II, we know who the Nuremberg process was and who was unfortunately taking place, and we know very well that the Nuremberg process has not yet taken place over Soviet Russia. This is why sickles and hammers still stand on Russian buildings, while in Germany it would be completely unthinkable for swastika buildings. I'll give you an episode, for example. When our Commissioner in the European Union Siim Kallas attended an exhibition on the Holocaust in Berlin, he was shown a wagon that deported Jewish prisoners to gas chambers. When her husband, Kristi, was also asked to go to that car, Kristi said that she would not go because she had already been there as a child. Everyone was amazed. This aspect of deportation has seemed to be incomprehensible to the Western allies. Just as we heard in the preparation of this statement, there was a misunderstanding in the West, which was also heated from the east, whether we are really going to oppose one uniform to another, by glorifying one. I am extremely glad that we are over it. Speaking of, by the way, the eastern dimension, I'm reminding you of another episode. After the Bronze Night events, I was put on the air of the Russian radio station Majak facing Arnold Mere and there were two other Russian professors. Arnold Meri honestly said that when Soviet troops entered Tallinn, there was silence, there was no resistance, the blue black and white flag was flying in the Tall Hermann Tower. Then the two Russian professors said that don't forget that the partisan struggle in Estonia took place until the end of the 1960s, in which case the host had his mouth shut. It's like all these episodes are coming together right now. These same western allies have once again asked whether it was right for us to call on Professor Uluots, so respected, to go voluntarily to protect Estonia from an even more appalling regime than the one that was ruling in Estonia at that moment. This is probably not a correct comparison, because the Jewish community would never understand it, but an event where there was one. So there's a question of whether it all comes down to this blue black-light that was here in the heart, or whether it was blue-black-white on the sleeve, or whether it was a swastika or blue-black-white. We know what the answer is. Actually, it all comes down to that blue black light inside of us. We cannot create uniform separators for those Pitka boys who disarmed Wehrmacht's fellow fighters in order to save the flag of Otto Tief's government for even a few moments and allow more people to leave Estonia and preserve the continuity of the Estonian state abroad. It is extremely difficult for us to bring out this distinguishing sign. I am very pleased that this statement has created an opportunity to find a way here. I would like to sum up my speech with a purely personal example. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U151	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U152	My father had two brothers. Two of the three brothers got out of that gauntlet wearing a uniform, but no shots fired, but the youngest one, the smallest one, passed through Prague's Hell Boiler. When he was standing at the Baltic station with a thin neck in a gray uniform, his mother was sending him. We've all seen emotional Italian movies, Russian movies, when Mom sends her son to the front in a wailing. The way my grandmother acted on my Uncle Ahto maybe sums up this whole statement. He just put his hand on his son's cheek and said, "Be a good boy! '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-14_U153	Thank you. We cannot review the amendments because they have not been received. As the lead committee has proposed to put the draft statement to a final vote, we will prepare the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the statement 'Expression of sentiment for Estonian citizens' 179. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been accepted as a statement. [[Let's hear it.]] Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you very much. The agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful Valentine's Day! Closure of the sitting at 12.29 p.m.
