ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Happy start of the new week and also a good start of the Adventure period for everyone! We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I ask for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act, the Penal Code and the State Fees Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U3	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the draft law amending § 11 of the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels. When we look outside, we see that we have a beautiful winter weather again. It's snowing. But this snow can often cause certain problems on the roads. The Group of the Social Democratic Party will present a bill for a number of times, which, if adopted as a law, would be allowed to use specially labelled fuel in an agricultural machine in cases where this machine is involved in the resolution of an emergency or rescue work, by decision of the Government of the Republic's Crisis Committee, Regional Crisis Committee or Local Government Crisis Committee. As an active farmer and machine owner, I know that changing fuel in a machine is often impossible or takes a lot of time. We find that if only unmarked fuel can be used, it is not right. We welcome the presentation this morning by the Minister for Agriculture in Hellovision, who supported our proposal. I hope that this time we will also be able to vote in favour of the draft law from among the members of the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U5	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union is celebrating International Day of People with Disabilities on 3 December today. Today, too, Tallinn will hold a conference entitled 'The People with the Trees - 20 Years in the Wind of Change', where the past will be remembered, the present will be appreciated and the future will be looked at. On 21 March this year, a draft Act 161 on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in the Riigikogu Hall with 88 votes in favour. It was a beautiful result and a very nice situation. I very much hope that the result of voting on the draft amendment to § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, which the Group of the Social Democratic Party will pass on today, will be the same. Under the current law, a student loan is cancelled if a person is recognised to be permanently unfit for work in the amount of 80 to 100 percent. The draft law seeks to extend this benefit to persons who are not working due to the care of a disabled child or to whom the municipality or city administration pays the allowance for the care of a disabled child. In this way, we would be very helpful in helping young people who have gone to college and taken student loans, but who, because they are caring for their children with severe or deep disabilities, are unable to pay back their student loans. After all, they only receive EUR 25 as maintenance allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three draft laws. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, they will be decided upon within three working days. Let's get to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. A draft law on the vocational training institution launched on 30 November 2004 and has appointed it as the lead committee of the Committee on Culture. The Estonian Central Party Group has withdrawn the Estonian Central Party Group. a Draft Act amending the VAT Act 297, which was initiated on 17 October. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has decided to set the deadline for submitting the documents underlying the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic. a at 6 p.m. on 4 December and by the deadline for submitting the documents underlying the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on 4 December, at 6 p.m. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 delegates registered as present, 12 missing. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. There are some changes to the agenda. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that the first item on the Thursday agenda be removed from the agenda of this working week, the debate on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 21. The proposal concerns the application of the conditions for applying for citizenship to a person whose legal status was not defined at the age of 15. The Committee on the Environment has proposed that the second item on the Tuesday agenda be removed from the agenda of this working week, the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Economic Commission has proposed to remove item 14 of the Wednesday agenda from the agenda of this working week, second reading of the draft law amending the Planning Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed to exclude item 17 of the Wednesday agenda from the agenda of this working week, the first reading of the draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 322. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U8	In the debate on the first point, he will be replaced by Minister Hanno Pevkur. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U9	I'm asking for clarification! The first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act is to be excluded from tomorrow's agenda. I understand that this is to be done because the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, is not in Estonia tomorrow. But will he be present in Estonia during the discussion on the first point in order to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U10	I'm asking for clarification! Why does Minister Hanno Pevkur replace him during the debate on the first point, but the second point needs to be removed from the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U11	As far as I know, the second point is a specific draft which the Minister wishes to be present in the debate. This is a change at the Minister's own request. That's all I can say. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U12	Thank you. The first item on tomorrow's agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act, where Keit Pentus-Rosimkooli will be replaced by Hanno Pevkur. Let me get this straight. This isn't a specific bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U13	It is certainly also a specific draft act in this case, but it is possible for another minister to replace the Minister of the Environment in the debate on this draft. On the second point, the Minister has a request that he wish to make a first-reading presentation of this draft himself. That's all the information I have. Tõnis Lukas wishes to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U14	On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I will present our justification for the withdrawal of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act from this week's agenda. This bill is not so urgent. Many draft laws relating to the budget are now being given huge attention in this Chamber; the opposition wants to think for ten minutes before each vote. So there's something to think about. Attention has just been paid to some of the pending draft laws. This draft law does not need to be adopted by a specific deadline. In this context, the Committee on the Environment requests that this draft be not pending at the moment when there are other interests on the agenda. We will come to this next year if it can be handled peacefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U15	Thank you, Tõnis Lukas! Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U16	Thank you. Thank you for Tõnis Lukas' explanation. I have a question about item 17 on the Wednesday agenda. The rapporteur was Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister for Agriculture. However, at his request, this item will be removed from the agenda. Am I right to understand that the Minister has asked to remove this item from the agenda because he is not unexpectedly present in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U17	I must say that I do not have any more detailed information about the presence or absence of Minister Seeder in Estonia. I am based on this proposal from the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U18	Thank you. Perhaps there could be an explanation from the Committee on Rural Affairs where Minister Seeder will be if he cannot be in front of the Riigikogu on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U19	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put the agenda to the vote with these amendments. Please take a stand and vote in the light of these changes. 53 votes to 33 with 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U20	Ladies and gentlemen, We will address the items on today's agenda. The first question to be discussed comes from the Riigikogu members Urve Palo, Rannar Vassilyev, Sven Mikser, Helmen Küttt, Jaak Allik, Eiki Nestor, Neeme Suur, Andres Anvelt, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Boroditš, Inara Luigas, Kalle Laanet, Rainer Vakra, Kalvi Tõll, Rein Randver, Kajar Lember and Jaan Õunapuu on 15 October 2012. The topic of the inquiry is the new oil shale energy blocks of AS Eesti Energia and the inquiry is presented to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. On behalf of the speakers of the chair, I ask you to introduce Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U21	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. 17 members of the Riigikogu, the majority of whom belong to the Group of the Social Democratic Party and part to the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu, have submitted an inquiry to the Auditor General about the new oil shale energy blocks of AS Eesti Energia. As we know, some time ago the press revealed that the board and council of Eesti Energia have been quite sceptical about whether and to what extent it is economically feasible to build new oil shale energy blocks. In addition, the board and the board have had questions as to whether the procurement and the agreement on the construction of the oil shale energy block on this basis are legally correct. We have received information from the press that the general meeting of the company in the name of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has actively intervened in this decision-making process and found that the contract with Alstom should definitely be awarded in accordance with the terms of the public procurement, on which the tender was also received. Due to the task of the National Audit Office is the economic control of companies in which the state has a dominant influence through majority ownership, and it also controls their subsidiaries, we have some questions for the Auditor General. Their focus is rather in legal circumstances, because the economic aspect of the subject has been quite much discussed, but to some extent the issues also concern economic viability. In short, the questions are as follows: Can the Auditor General guess why the winner of the tender was announced even though the tender did not meet the conditions? Can the Auditor General list which tender did not meet the requirements? Are and what offences were committed in the procurement process? Does the government have the right to break the law as it sees fit, on the pretext that there is a threat to national security, which must be ruled out, as we have read in the press? Before the decision was taken, did the government know that the activities of Alstom and its subsidiaries, which were declared to be the winner of the public procurement, had been investigated by the institutions of several countries in relation to the suspicion of money laundering and bribery? Doesn't it all seem to the Auditor General that the Public Procurement Act needs to be supplemented in order to clarify the issues raised in this case so that they do not happen again in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U22	Thank you. I'm asking for Auditor General Mihkel Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 15 October, 17 members of the Riigikogu approached me with an inquiry. They asked questions about the construction of new oil shale energy blocks in AS Eesti Energia. The heirs noted that the press has informed them that Eesti Energia has signed a contract with Alstom for the construction of the first block of the new power plant, and as a result of the intervention of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Eesti Energia did so in breach of the Public Procurement Act and the Penal Code. The National Audit Office reviewed the materials of the procurement procedure and the minutes of the Estonian Energy Council in order to answer the questions asked by the heirs. We also asked for explanations from the management board of Eesti Energia, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the manager of Eesti Energia Narva Power Plants AS, the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance. In my reply, I assume that the materials and explanations submitted to the National Audit Office are true and complete. We didn't do separate controls to make sure of that. I'll get to the questions. The first two can be answered together. These sound like: 'Why do you think the winner of the public procurement was chosen from among the two tenderers who did not meet the requirements of the tender? Please list the requirements that were not met by the winner of the public procurement. What violations of the Public Procurement Act and the Penal Code were committed during the procurement procedure? ' In the opinion of the National Audit Office, both tenderers met the criteria for qualification of tenderers, but the tenders they submitted did not meet the conditions for the procurement. The law on public procurement was likely broken in two cases when a successful tender was identified. First, however, the only tender that was found to meet the conditions was that Alstom's tender did not meet the conditions of the tender in all respects. In particular, the lack of conformity was that Alstom's bid sought different payment and penalty terms from those permitted in the tender documents. Secondly, the winner was negotiated in order to change the procurement terms that were not negotiable and should not have been changed. The parties have justified their operation by the fact that only one credible bid was received for the construction of the first block of the power plant. I would like to draw your attention to how Eesti Energia came into this situation. According to the tender procedure, only those companies whose subscriber, in this case Eesti Energia Narva Power Plant AS, have qualified in advance, i.e. for whom the contracting entity is convinced that it can do the job. In fact, five companies expressed their wish to participate in the procurement. Three companies submitted their application for qualification by the deadline, while the other two companies did not arrive in time. Although the actual qualification of companies took place one and a half months later, Eesti Energia Narva Power Plants decided not to qualify late bidders on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. Their documents were returned without opening envelopes and were not allowed to submit tenders. The three companies submitting the request within the deadline were all found to be in conformity. Two of them submitted a tender, one of which was apparently deficient. Thus, there was a situation in which Eesti Energia had only one substantive but nevertheless not a suitable bid. I say 'Estonia Energia', because although Estonia Energia Narva Power Plant AS is formally contracting in this procurement, all substantive decisions were made at Eesti Energia's head office. We know that, despite the lack of compliance with the tender, Alstom was negotiated and a contract was also concluded. In doing so, the minutes of the meeting of the Estonian Energy Council show that the Council understood that the decisions taken in the tender procedure were contrary to the law. You're asking if there's anything criminal about this. I would leave it to the competent law enforcement authorities to assess who will decide on the basis of the information they have at one point or another. Two sections of the Penal Code mention public procurement. It is stated that a criminal offence is involved where the creation of unjustified advantages for one of the participants in the procurement or other infringement of public procurement requirements has caused material material material damage. Secondly, a breach of the Penal Code may be considered in the event of agreements being concluded in a procurement procedure for anti-competitive purposes. The National Audit Office cannot tell us, based on the information known to us, whether this happened. We know that at the meeting of the Estonian Energy Council, the lawyer who advised the company stated that during the procurement procedure, the Public Procurement Act and the Penal Code were violated. But what did the lawyer mean by breaking the Penal Code, he was not willing to tell the National Audit Office by referring to the confidentiality of his relationship with the client. The Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia told the National Audit Office that the law firm did not justify this argument either orally or in writing. The Ministry of Finance is known to supervise the organisation of public procurement, but did not consider it necessary to initiate a monitoring procedure on the basis of a specific case. An application for an infringement of the Penal Code sent by the Public Prosecutor's Office was transmitted to the police who did not find evidence of a criminal offence in the conduct of an official. Question 3: "Does the Government of the Republic have the right to break the law as it sees fit, later making threats to national security an excuse? ' Here you have to look at what the government discussed, what it decided, and what information. In May 2011, when the Cabinet held a meeting, the contract with the winner of the procurement had already been concluded but had not yet entered into force. The contract was concluded with the approval of the Estonian Energy Council and with the knowledge of the general meeting, i.e. the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. The government hadn't discussed the treaty or given any direction. The question of building new blocks might not have come before the government if Eesti Energia had not found that the construction of a new power plant without state support would be economically unreasonable for the company. This was discussed by the government and found that for reasons of energy security, the state must find an opportunity to support Eesti Energia. The contract may have entered into force with the support of this decision. As far as we know, the Cabinet was not informed that the contract was likely found in breach of the Public Procurement Act. According to the Secretary of State, all the materials on which the debate is based are on the information system of the Government of the Republic. The legality of the procurement for the construction of a new power plant has not been addressed in the material contained there. If you ask whether the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications knew or did not know about the breach of the Public Procurement Act, the answer is yes, he did. The Management Board of Eesti Energia assured the National Audit Office that the Minister was informed of all risks before the conclusion of the contract. The fourth question is quite long: 'According to § 17 (2) of the Government of the Republic Act, you will be informed of the agenda of the sitting. Under § 18 (4) of the same Act, you have the right to participate in a meeting of the Government with a say in matters of your duties. Before the decision was taken, did the Government know that Alstom and its subsidiaries, which were declared to be the winner of the public procurement, had been investigated by the French, Swiss, United Kingdom and United States authorities in relation to the suspicion of money laundering and bribery for officials in Singapore, Indonesia, Venezuela, Brazil, Italy, Zambia, Poland, Mexico, Latvia, Tunisia and Malaysia? " The written material submitted to the Government of the Republic at the meeting has not dealt with the possible offences or suspicions of Alstom or its subsidiaries. The fifth and final question: "Do you think that the Public Procurement Act needs to be supplemented so that companies that are or have been convicted of corruption in Estonia or abroad are removed from the public procurement procedure? ' I don't think there's any need for improvement. The Public Procurement Act also currently prohibits participation in procurement procedures for persons who have been convicted of criminal offences and who have not been punished. Occupational crimes include bribery and bribery, taking and brokering, and violation of operating restrictions. In other respects, I continue to recognise the presumption of innocence and do not consider it appropriate to remove the persons under investigation from the procurement procedure. But I guess it's in your hands as a legislator. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U24	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U25	Thank you. Do you think, according to the information you have today, that Alstom's offer could have been declared successful?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U26	I can answer you with an extract from the Council minutes. In the Council's Protocol, Mr Atonen's position is as follows: 'The Council is currently in a fork rather than continuing with Alstom, we would be breaking the law (this is a formal infringement, which will not cause damage to the state or to Eesti Energia, because we do not have any knowledge that a new tender could bring a better offer, rather than an increase in the price of the offer), but if we abandon the contract, we will have to arrange a new tender, and obviously the new offer will be more expensive than that, we will have already caused damage. I'm in favour of signing a contract. " Since this is a violation of the terms of the contract and the law, I must say that I would be against the conclusion of such a contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U27	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U28	Dear Mr. Oviir! You're a lawyer, I'm not, so I don't share those nuances. Forgive my somewhat naive question! In recent years, several Estonian local government leaders, for example, from East and West-Viru County, have been under investigation and trial for breach of the Public Procurement Act. Are the infringements committed in connection with this public procurement more serious or easier than the cases dealt with by the Estonian investigating and judicial authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U29	Thank you for your question. I must say that I cannot be a factor in whether one violation is more difficult or the other easier. To this end, national law enforcement authorities are competent and should decide on this. Once again, I, as a lawyer, cannot accept any offences.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U30	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U31	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, Thank you very much for answering your questions and looking into the matter. My question concerns your reference to the fact that the Public Procurement Act clearly states that if there is a final judgment, the tenderer will not qualify. According to my information, Alstom has a judgment in force in at least one country. I think it was Switzerland, but I could be wrong about the country. This means that Alstom's bid could not have been accepted under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U32	Thank you for that question. I would distinguish between two things: subsidiaries operating from one region to another: Alstom and Alstom. The extent to which these subsidiaries are linked to the parent company, the impact and the knowledge about it, I cannot make an assessment of that at the moment. For example, Alstom Estonia is active in Estonia, while Alstom Poland is active in Poland. Offers shall be made through them. As far as liability is concerned, when it is specifically found that a subsidiary has given some kind of , this restriction concerns the same local subsidiary as that one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U33	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U34	Thank you for your substantive answers. To our question of whether there was anything criminal in this procurement, you answered that it should be dealt with by the relevant bodies. At the same time, you have found that there has been a breach of the Public Procurement Act. Do you think that all this procurement needs to be re-examined by these bodies or that there is no point in dealing with the "old" issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U35	Thank you for your question. I must first say that it has been dealt with by both the Ministry of Finance and the kapo within the limits of its competence. The D.A. sent this application to the D.A.'s office. Neither did the kapo find the composition of the crime in the activities of the officials and returned the statement. It is now difficult for me to say whether it would be practical and reasonable to do anything else. In my opinion, there should be some new facts in which we could say that this was not known before and that it could not be assessed. I don't have that kind of information right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U36	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U37	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, On 18 October, the Riigikogu Hall voted to express censure on the Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts. A fellow Member asked that if the Minister for Economic Affairs claims that he did not know anything about the breach of the Public Procurement Act, would he be relieved of his responsibility for what was going on in his administration? Juhan Parts replied: 'Of course, the company that conducts the procurement is responsible for its legality. If you want, I can take responsibility for that, too. I have no reason to believe today that this is an illegal treaty in some form. The company has also confirmed this after the doubts expressed last week. ' Research has not begun. Could you request that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Eesti Energia, under his administration, draw at least some conclusions on how to make the next major procurements? If there is no investigation, can the National Audit Office recommend that the company learns at least from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U38	Thank you for this question. The Kapo has assessed and found that it has not been demonstrated that the conduct of some officials showed signs of a crime. The National Audit Office is not competent to reassess the Kapo's positions. The question is always how punctual we must be in compliance with the law. As a lawyer, I am of the opinion that we must be absolutely punctual in compliance with the law. I have quoted one statement to you that mentioned the fork, because the announcement of a new procurement could cause much greater damage to the state. The question arises as to whether this is a sufficient justification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U39	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! I also have the strangest feeling that I am now defending a minister, and this minister belongs to a government whose policy is deeply disgusting to me. But still. The constant problem, in my opinion, is that people in Estonia will be baptized as criminals before something has been decided in court. Whatever it is, it is my colleagues in Narva and Tallinn or the Minister for Economic Affairs, the approach should, in my opinion, be the same for all people. How do you feel about saying that a person has broken the law on public procurement, for example, before the judgment? I hope the question was understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U41	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U42	Thank you! It's always a question of assessment. If a citizen considers that a criminal offence has been committed against him or her, he or she shall have the right to address this argument to the law enforcement body. A person suspected of a criminal offence by that citizen cannot yet be considered a criminal by the institution and cannot be said to have committed a criminal offence. There are different stages here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General! I have a question about the Kapo's position. Recently, the positions of both the kapo and the prosecutor's office have been appealed several times in Estonia, especially in cases of corruption at political level. The last example was in Viimsi, where the prosecutor's office and the police said three levels that there was no crime, but in the end it was appealed as an administrative act and the administrative court started criminal proceedings. As Auditor General, have you not thought of going the same way in such an important matter and appeal against the Kapo's position on the refusal of criminal proceedings as a certain administrative act so that the taxpayer can finally find out what happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U44	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is not the competence of the National Audit Office or the Auditor General. If the National Audit Office finds during the audit that a criminal offence may have been committed, it will contact the investigating authorities. The decision of the investigating bodies shall be final. Although we are often not satisfied with the position of some investigative bodies, we cannot appeal against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U45	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You indicated that a member of the Council formulated the reason why it was necessary to adopt this decision and to break the law. But can you tell me if there were any other reasons, and did any of those involved in the decision-making process object to this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U47	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U48	First of all, I must explain why I gave Mr Atonen's opinion, for example. Because I believe that Mr Atonen is a politically well independent person. He'll say what he's thinking. That's one. Second, it is not easy to influence or manipulate him. Finally, I must say that the Council took this position unanimously. More or less everyone said the same points of view, perhaps in a different context and formulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U49	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, I'll continue with Indrek Island. According to § 38 of the Public Procurement Act, a company who has been sanctioned in criminal or misdemeanour proceedings must be removed from the procurement procedure. You said that Alstom has a judgment in force in Switzerland, but that does not mean anything in our law because it is another subsidiary. However, in response to your inquiry, you said that you did not consider it necessary to supplement the Public Procurement Act. In view of this interpretation of the Public Procurement Act, all dishonest entrepreneurs are of course now giving pleasure through their subsidiaries, because you do not think they will be held accountable. How reasonable is such an interpretation? Should not the law on public procurement be supplemented to ensure that companies with criminal backgrounds do not deceive the Estonian taxpayer in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U50	Thank you! First of all, we need to make a little bit of a clarification here. It was not I who said that Switzerland had a judgment in force, but one of the honourable questioners said that he felt that a judgment had come into force in Switzerland. That's one. Second, look at the activities of big corporations with subsidiaries all over the world. Let us imagine that a subsidiary of some corporations, for example, committed a crime in Malaysia for which he was punished. If, therefore, another subsidiary of the corporation is deprived of the right to participate in any public procurement in Estonia, it seems problematic to me. But if you listened carefully, you know that the final phrase of my speech was: 'Dear Riigikogu, it is in your hands as legislator. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U51	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General! What do you estimate the likelihood that an investment of EUR 1 billion in a new power plant will stop because it will not be possible to produce competitive electricity at this station under open market conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U53	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U54	Thank you for your question. I also have my own opinions and views on oil shale energy, but at the moment this was not the subject of the question. In the context of this question, I do not consider it appropriate to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U55	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, It is common practice that, above all, competition in public procurement disputes when they feel that the offer has infringed the law. Do you have any information that a competitor has challenged this procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U56	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U57	According to my knowledge, none of the competitors have contested this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U58	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Very esteemed Auditor General! As good colleague Kadri Simson has already said, on 18 October we had a long discussion on this subject with the Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts. One subject of the very clear debate was the role played by the Minister in declaring it, as has been said today, to be eligible for illegal procurement. You said the Minister knew the risks. The Minister tried to get out of this situation by explaining that he had not been directly involved in the procurement. What is your assessment of ministerial responsibility as Auditor General? Should he, for example, have stopped this process or made his assessment at the cabinet hearing or at any other point?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U59	Thank you very much. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U60	Thank you! The Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia has said that he has personally informed the Minister of all risks. That's one. Secondly, the Minister certainly had a Council decision in which these things were recorded and the discussions were also fixed. Consequently, the Minister was aware of all the risks associated with this public procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! You said the Auditor General would have the opportunity to address the higher bodies. In this regard, I would like to ask how much the National Audit Office has addressed the higher bodies this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U62	Thank you for this interesting question. I would hate to say that the National Audit Office does not have a higher organ here on earth. I consider this higher body to be the Riigikogu. You know very well how much I have been before the Riigikogu. It wasn't until a month ago that I was in front of you with a year's review. Every time you call, I come before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U63	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable performer! It's always a pleasure to listen to your answers and it's a pleasure to meet you. Tell me, please, the next one! When all that came out of the question was known to Minister Parts, did he knowingly break the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U65	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U66	Thank you. First of all, if we start looking at this order, we can find different levels of responsibility. In the end, this contract was signed by the Head of Eesti Energia Narva Power Plants, although all the substantive decisions were made by Eesti Energia, by the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Eesti Energia. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General! I've been watching you answer questions about this. I was very startled by the first reaction to this question that was published in the press a month ago. This is indeed a very important step for the Estonian state to continue with oil shale energy. There are also enormous economic risks here, which you did not want to answer today. I understand you. Do you believe that the steps taken to resolve this important issue are legally correct? On the basis of what you know, are you convinced that this is the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U68	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir! I'm opening negotiations. I'd like to speak to Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U69	Honourable questioner! You put a number of problems together here: is it done right and is it the right thing? I can only say one thing. In my opinion, this agreement was a breach of law. That's the main thing. But whether this is the right thing is a completely different question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U70	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. It can be concluded that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications knew that declaring Alstom's offer to be successful was in breach of the law, as a result of the material published in the press and the replies of the Auditor General of State that he has heard today. Despite this, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications gave clear guidelines to the Management Board and Council of Eesti Energia that the tender submitted must be declared successful and the contract concluded (I have now used the press as a basis). Similarly, what we have heard today is that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications did not inform the Government that this procedure was not in accordance with the Public Procurement Act when making a decision. The Ministry of Finance decided that there was no reason to deal with a breach of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U71	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U72	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Have you ever wondered why, when the construction of the power plant near Narva began, these blocks were built in two places? One is within the city's borders, the other is about 20 kilometers from the city. There was a very simple explanation. This remote power plant, the so-called Estonian power plant, was designed to produce electricity, while the power plant within the city's borders was built as a boiler house in the city. I have been a member of the Estonian Energy Council. As I have been told, I was the only one who used the archives of Eesti Energia and reviewed all the records and all the documentation they had. Even in Eesti Energia's documents since 1998 it has been mentioned that the power plant was built as a boiler house for the city of Narva. You know the economic situation in Ida-Viru County. We're 10th on the ratings right now. This is not the worst place, but the social figures are still rather poor. Personally, I believe that the existence of a Narva power plant has been one of the social guarantees of the inhabitants of the city. The fact that a point was once put into the development plan of the Estonian electricity economy, which made the decision to build new blocks, is a very good thing for Estonia's third-largest city, because it preserves one of the few good things that are there, i.e. cheap heating. The question arises as to how to evaluate all of this. Should we talk about building under no circumstances? I'll make sure the thought moves like that. Or should the interests of 60000 people be taken into account? I hate to find out again that the government minister has screwed up another piece of shit in his field of activity, but once again our law enforcement agencies are letting it stay that way and he's not responsible for what he's done. In my opinion, the situation is that if there is a judgment, there can be an offence. For now, however, we can only talk about suspicion. What can we do if we live in a police state and we don't just start looking into it? This is not a question perhaps even for us, but it is a question for the people of Estonia as a whole. I fully agree if the government is considered arrogant. But, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you: do not become arrogant yourself against the voters. It is in the interests of the voters in Ida-Virumaa that the oil shale industry continue to operate mines in order to operate and develop power plants. After all, it is also important that we have our own energy, because it may happen to be needed. God forbid this happens, but if we need it, it's a good thing if there's a chance like this. The question is quite interesting. But my suggestion is that, given the interests of Ida-Virumaa, a debate on whether or not there is a Narva power plant could be left aside for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U73	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U74	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I only came here to answer Mr. Stalnukhin. I would like to say that I also believe that the Narva Power Plants of Eesti Energia need a new block. I am now expressing my personal position; there are various opinions in our group. However, that is not the question. In my opinion, the question of this question is clearly that the aim must not be to consecrate a measure under any circumstances, in the construction of power plants, in the parliamentary elections or in any matter. Everything can and should be done in Estonia so that the laws are complied with. I think that this procurement could have been done as well, and this block could also be built in such a way that there would not be a breach of the law. We're hearing there's been a breach of the law at government level. I specifically asked Mr. Oviir about the next problem. We often hear about violations of the law, especially the Public Procurement Act, at the local government level. This is going to be a big problem, and there have been cases. But if this is where the'model' is given by the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Economic Affairs, there is a problem that we can demand from the smaller bosses. I very much appreciate Mr Oviir's views, which he put forward both in raising this question and in answering it here today. There is an instance who clearly states that the purpose does not consecrate the means. We are not arguing whether Narva needs a new power plant or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U75	Thank you very much. Does the addressee of the enquiry request a final statement? No, I don't. No more calls, negotiations are over. I'm closing the negotiations. I'm sorry! Would Marianne Mikko like a word? No, I don't. The first item is closed. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will take a ten-minute break for the Bureau's extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, The chairman's break is over, and we're going to the next question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Sven Mikeri, Marianne Mikko, Indrek Saare, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Neeme Suur, Urve Palo, Heljo Pikhofi, Jaan Õunapuu, Helmen Küti, Mart Meri, Karel Rüütli, Kalvi Tõm, Rannar Vassilyev, Kalev Kotkas, Eiki Nestor, Rein Randver and Jaak Allik to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on 8 November 2012 to reduce the wage gap between men and women. I ask for a speech chair by Marianne Mikko on behalf of the interviewers!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Dear colleagues! On 20 September 2011, the Riigikogu decided to propose to the Government of the Republic an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women. On 5 July s. a At the meeting of the Cabinet, the Action Plan proposed by the Minister for Social Affairs to reduce the pay gap between men and women was approved. Unfortunately, the action plan focuses mainly on communication activities and does not include measures for national supervision, analysis of laws and the development of collective bargaining, despite the fact that the explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu decision wants to see this as part of the plan to reduce the pay gap. This year's World Economic Forum report on gender equality shows that Estonia is 60th in 135 countries in terms of gender equality. Mr. Ansip! During the period during which you were Prime Minister, between 2006 and 2012, Estonia has fallen in Table 31. The fall has taken place despite the fact that the number of Estonian points has not decreased. At a time when the world's developed countries are working to improve equality, the government you run has been idle. By comparison, southern neighbour Latvia has, at the same time, risen from 19th to 15th and Finland from 3rd to second place. The government's inaction is all the more regrettable that Estonia remains a Member State of the European Union with the largest gender pay gap. On the basis of the above, we would like answers to three questions. First. The Riigikogu decided to see a plan of action to reduce the wage gap of the Government of the Republic with concrete measures, including state supervision, analysis of laws, communication and the development of collective bargaining. When will the action plan be completed as part of national monitoring, legislative analysis and the development of collective bargaining? Second. In order to close the pay gap, the European Commission recommends, inter alia, that employers be made aware of the economic justification for gender equality and the important role of collective agreements in eliminating the pay gap. For what reasons were these activities not included in the action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women? Three. Most of the activities of the Government's Action Plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women are planned to be financed 85% of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism programme "Promotion of equality between women and work and family life' and the European Social Fund programme "Promotion of gender equality 2011-2013'. External action to combat discrimination would be appropriate for a developing country with a young democracy and not for a member of the European Union, NATO and OECD. Does the government you manage see any responsibility for fighting the pay gap in Estonia, or is it only dealt with when foreign donors finance such projects? Those were our questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U78	Thank you very much. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. I don't read them because I don't think it's necessary to repeat the questions that were just read out. Answer to the first question. A survey of the causes of the gender pay gap in Estonia was carried out during the year 2009-2010 at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Among the measures and recommendations it sets out are the options for priority actions in the Action Plan to reduce the pay gap between women and men by the end of 2015. The agreed action plan includes, inter alia, an analysis of the possibilities of reconciling parents' work and family life, analysing existing legislation and the need to amend it in order to ensure better opportunities for women and men to reconcile work and family life. In order to create a more favourable starting point for dialogue on equal pay in collective bargaining, the Action Plan includes measures to improve the awareness of gender equality among employers and workers' representatives in general and of equal pay for the same and equal work directly for women and men. The answer to the second question. The roadmap for reducing the pay gap between men and women was drawn up on the basis of a study on the causes of the pay gap carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs in 2009-2010, in which the recommendations were selected according to the current options. It cannot be accepted that the actions outlined in the question are not included in the action plan. The results of the gender pay gap survey commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs show that there was no distinction between the measurable variables affecting the wage gap in Estonia and the main cause of the gender pay gap in Estonia. The pay gap is compounded by many factors: opportunities for reconciling work and family life, career breaks for women, work placements in the workplace, gender segregation in education and the labour market, educational choices, attitudes in society, norms and values, etc. As the pay gap is affected by a number of interrelated factors, solutions also need a complex approach. This is why the Action Plan aims to promote gender equality more broadly. As regards explaining to employers the economic justification for gender equality, Action 3 (3) of the Action Plan provides training for employers to support the implementation of gender equality principles in organisations. According to the Action Plan, training also addresses the benefits of equal treatment for women and men in working life for the organisation. This includes, of course, economic benefits. During training seminars organised since 2008, the manual "Use and Balance: Recipient Book for Estonian Business Managers for the Promotion of Gender Equality" drawn up in the framework of the Estonian and French twinning project is used as material. Its revised version in 2010 is available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The third edition has now also been completed. All training participants will also be provided with a paper edition of this handbook, which will include a separate chapter on the benefits for companies in promoting gender equality. This chapter addresses, in addition to economic benefits, the positive impact on the organisation's public relations, the benefits of preventing discrimination and the positive impact on society. A separate chapter of the Handbook also deals with equal treatment of women and men in terms of remuneration. As regards the role of collective agreements in eliminating wage differences, these trainings are also organised for trade union representatives and employees' representatives. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the European Social Fund Action 1.3.2 'Improving the quality of working life' co-financed in 2011 by the Estonian Health Care Workers' Trade Union, the Estonian Transport and Road Workers' Trade Union and the Estonian Women's Research and Information Centre's "Practical Manual of Collective Negotiations', which deals, among other things, with the consideration of gender equality and equal treatment issues at different stages of collective bargaining. The authors of the book include, by the way, the successor Eiki Nestor, who is also the author of the preface. Before I start answering the third question, I want to say that there is no cell phone in my pocket. My phone doesn't give that signal to the microphones. Mailis Reps made such a gesture as if he suspected that I had a cell phone in my pocket placed in silent mode. No, it's not. Answer to question three. Norway and other countries not belonging to the European Union, but benefiting from the advantages of the European Economic Area, have funded social and economic development projects since 1994, i.e. long before Estonia joined the European Union. In the current financial period, projects will be funded in 15 Member States. Neither the Norwegian Financial Mechanism nor the European Union's structural resources are right to consider the foreign currency that somebody wants to impose on us. It is a cohesion policy based on the fundamental principles of the European Union, the implementation of which is essential for the country's own readiness and preferences. Therefore, these funds will finance projects in areas where we would like to make progress faster than otherwise possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U80	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U81	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! I quote Article 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act: 'The employer must collect gender-based employment statistics which, if necessary, enable the institutions concerned to monitor and assess compliance with the principle of equal treatment in employment relations. The procedures for the collection of data and the list of data shall be established by the Government of the Republic by regulation. " Within eight years, seven months, and two days, when the law has been in force, the Government of the Republic has not introduced this decree. In other words, gender-based employment data are not wanted to be collected. Prime Minister, you've been at Stenbock's house for some time, for years. Do you have too much work to do, or do you have any other good reason to break the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U82	Thank you. Your argument that gender pay data are not collected at all is certainly not appropriate. They're being collected. But it has been relatively easy for you to ask this question, because if you look at the government's agenda, its first point is about developing a new concept for collecting statistics on the pay gap. We will see the action plan ahead of this, and we will probably start collecting these statistics in more detail. There is certainly a need to get a more detailed picture of the problem in order to plan future activities. When we look at Eurostat data, we see that the gender pay gap varies considerably from country to country. The latest figures say that in Slovenia, for example, the gender pay gap is only 0.9%, but we have 27.7%. The difference is huge. However, no one, even the European Commission, mentioned by you, can adequately explain the difference. I would argue that the issue of the gender pay gap has been relatively little studied everywhere. There are some rules that can describe the size or size of the gender pay gap in a very broad way. For example, the gender pay gap is lower in those countries where female occupancy is lower and higher in those countries where female employment is higher. Several analysts have pointed out that, when women's employment is relatively low, women are mainly employed by highly qualified women and, of course, also high-wage women. The pay gap is therefore narrower in these countries. For example, Slovenia has even had a year when the gender pay gap was 0.6%, or women earned more than men. If you look at the bottom of the table, you can see that the countries with the lowest gender pay gap are Slovenia (0.9%), Poland (4.5%), Italy (5.3%) and Malta (7.2%). Estonia (27.7%), the Czech Republic (25.5%) and Austria (24.0%) are in the upper part of the table. In the case of Austria, it should be borne in mind, of course, that this data is reduced to the same working time, i.e. full-time, but women in Austria actually work less hours a week than men. If this were taken into account, this figure would probably be higher there. In Finland, the pay gap is 20.3%. I certainly do not think that the gender pay gap in Finland has not been the focus of much attention for decades. The Finnish have, to my knowledge, considered the disclosure of wages to be very important in terms of reducing the pay gap. As is well known, all taxpayers' tax revenues are public in Finland, which will be made public on 1 November. After that, Finnish newspapers only write about wages for a week or two. Unfortunately, we see that Finland is the fifth largest in the European Union in the ranking of the gender pay gap. There are no good solutions here. No one has been able to identify clear reasons why the gender pay gap in one country is significantly higher than in the other. Yeah, women's occupancy rate is a character. Secondly, the gender pay gap is almost non-existent or very small among young people, with the pay gap getting bigger in older age groups. But again, one reason why this is so has not been brought out. In order to solve the problem, Estonia must first identify the nature of the problem in all its shades. Then it is also possible to find appropriate treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U83	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! In part, you have already answered this question, but I am now asking from this angle: are the data on which countries are compared still the same? In fact, it is sad when Estonia is in the 60th place among 135 countries. Latvia, on the contrary, has not fallen but has risen in this ranking. The same is true of Finland. We are used to Estonia being a small and good country, trying to be among the best, the first. But in this comparison, we fall for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U85	Thank you. If you look at the trend of the gender pay gap in Estonia, you can see a decline here. In 2007, the gender pay gap in Estonia was 30.9%, currently 27.7%. In addition to the above-mentioned patterns, the hypothesis is that the gender pay gap has narrowed as a result of the economic crisis. Perhaps the reduction in our gender pay gap from 30.9% to 27.7% is explained by this very reason. According to 2010 figures, the gender pay gap was 15.5% in Latvia, 15.4% in Sweden and 14.6% in Lithuania. These three countries stand side by side in the European Union's ranking. If we are planning some activities in Estonia, we should definitely go to Latvia and Lithuania, but it would be even better if we went to Slovenia and found out what the secret of their non-existent gender pay gap is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U86	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U87	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! We've been talking about this for quite a while. Today, thanks to so-called Norwegian or Cohesion Fund money, it is really possible to support the activities planned by the Ministry of Social Affairs to address wage gaps. Is the government's activity in dealing with the pay gap purely project-based? If Norwegian money runs out, what happens if it all depends on foreign money? Or is there some funding planned for the country's budget strategy next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U88	Thank you. As the good questioner knows, we cannot use EU or Norwegian funds without co-financing. Co-financing is provided for in the draft State Budget Act. I cannot agree in any way with the negative tone of the inquiry, which seems to have accused the Estonian Government of using the budget of the European Union or Norwegian funds for the benefit of the Estonian people and the state. After all, these instruments are intended for this purpose. Neither the budget of the European Union nor Norwegian resources is humanitarian aid of any kind. Norwegian money is the means that Norway provides to trade in the European single market without any barriers. It is our right to have them; we also have the right to receive funds from the European Union budget. It's not just a gesture of goodwill or mercy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U89	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I am sorry if I repeat the question that has already been asked in case I repeat, but I am interested in your assessment. How do you assess whether this problem is linked to our regulatory area, where there are some shortcomings and what needs to be done? Or is it linked to our modern working and social culture, is in some ways also an assessment of it and depends on the employer's interests being such and trying to realise them within the limits of the possibilities of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U91	Thank you. I also said in my previous answers that the solution to the gender pay gap must be complex. We have no unambiguous reason why there is a gender pay gap in Estonia as big as it is. It is probably one part of the solution to change the laws, but the other part is certainly also a change in attitudes and values. In Estonia, the gender pay gap varies considerably in different areas of life. For example, the largest gender pay gap is in financial and insurance activities. According to Statistics Estonia, men get 37.5% more pay there than women do. The gender pay gap is also very high in the mining industry, i.e. 32.3%. One might think that this is primarily a question of the nature of the work. The gender pay gap is also very high at 31.8% for wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and wheels. The lowest gender pay gap in transport and storage is 5.6%. I admit that it is very difficult for me to understand why there is a large pay gap in wholesale trade, but small in transport and storage. The pay gap is also relatively small in terms of management and assistance activities, with a share of 9%. It is 10.2% in public administration and national defence and compulsory social security. The pay gap is also small in the areas of water supply, sanitation, waste management and pollution management, with 11.8%. In Estonia, we are probably unable to explain, based on one, two or three parameters, why the gender pay gap is very different in different sectors of activity. Therefore, the response to the problem must be complex and diverse. I don't believe we have one key that opens all the doors here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U92	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I'm asking Marianne Mikko for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Gender equality is a human right and a prerequisite for democratic governance. However, unequal treatment between women and men can occur in all areas of life and can have a direct or indirect impact on people's chances of self-realization. Inequal treatment based on gender is the reason why resources in society have been unfairly distributed between women and men. One such resource is income. Income sources can be salary, pension, unemployment insurance or parental benefit. However, all forms of income mentioned in the previous sentence are directly affected by the salary, since both pensions, unemployment insurance and parental benefits depend on the amount of the salary. Thus, wages affect not only the present but also the quality of life of women and men in the next stages of life. According to Estonian labour force survey data, the average wage of Estonian women and men varied by 31.4% in 2008. Among European countries with an average wage gap of 17.6% in the same year, the pay gap between Estonian women and men is the largest. That's the way it is now. As the gender pay gap is one of the "output indicators" for the situation of women and men on the labour market, it is possible to assess the Estonian labour market from the point of view of gender equality. Equal opportunities for individuals in the labour market are essential for achieving the overall growth targets. However, it does not underestimate the importance of women's economic independence, which is the basis for reducing the risk of poverty among women and children, nor does it help to reduce violence against women in couples and close relationships. Thus, wage inequality regenerates the overall inequality. On the one hand, the lower income of women means that there are different resources available for women and men. This, in turn, leads to social problems, such as feminisation of poverty or child poverty. The issue is both the autonomy and independence of women and the fairness of women, because the pay gap between men and women cannot always be justified by objective factors. On the other hand, lower pay for women may indicate that the potential of women, i.e. half of the population, has not been fully exploited in society. According to § 11 of the Gender Equality Act, the employer must collect gender-based employment statistics which, if necessary, enable the institutions concerned to monitor and assess compliance with the principle of equal treatment in employment relations. An employer is also prohibited from discriminate against workers of equal sex in terms of providing and receiving benefits related to remuneration or employment. This provision requires the ability and ability of employers to assess the values of their organisation and positions in order to identify equivalent work and to ensure that their activities comply with the law. The employer is therefore obliged to audit the gender pay gap in the organisation. In order to comply with the principle of equal pay for equal work, the value of the work carried out in all the positions of the organisation must be assessed, i.e. the analytical assessment of the positions. In Estonia, employers wishing to evaluate posts should have sufficient information to introduce equal pay audits and the method of assessing posts as a general tool for establishing the wage system and staff policy, which can, among other things, assess and ensure gender equality of pay. It is also important to help businesses shape evaluation tools that are gender balanced and do not restore gender inequalities. In practice, however, for eight and a half years, the Government of the Republic has not issued a regulation that provides direct guidance to the employer on what data must be collected and how to define equivalent work. Therefore, employers cannot be expected to fulfil this obligation in particular. The large pay gap, the largest among the countries of the European Union, confirms the need for a regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U94	According to § 24 of the Gender Equality Act, alongside the Ministry of Social Affairs and the institution of the Commissioner, provision is made for the creation of a Gender Equality Council, which is a collegial body representing different interest groups. But it's uncreated. The current European Commission Strategy for equality between women and men for the 2010/2015 period provides for improved transparency of pay and support for initiatives relating to equal pay in the workplace. The unwillingness of the Government of the Republic to collect even gender-based work statistics shows that Brussels and Tallinn are separated not only by 1602 kilometres, but also by a decade-long mental divide. Finally. True, we have received an action plan to reduce the pay gap, but this is not the action plan that the Social Democrats hoped for. We are disappointed that the main path of the action plan is 'to inform, investigate and analyse' rather than grab the bull by the horns and start substantially reducing the gender pay gap. We are not satisfied with the Prime Minister, to whom the gap between the wages of Estonian women and men means only statistics, but not concrete action. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U95	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U96	Thank you very much. Is there a final wish? No, it's not. There's no more calls. The negotiations have been concluded and the debate on this question has also been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U97	The next question to be heard is an inquiry by Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendijev, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhin, Minister of Education and Research, Jaak Aavuskogu, on 17 October 2012. I ask you to speak on behalf of the speakers of the speech chair, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U98	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Our questioning concerns the late immersion of the tongue. The language immersion is a form of study that is implemented in Estonia as a national programme to better acquire Estonian as a second language. The language immersion is divided into an early one, which takes place in kindergarten and primary school, and a late one, starting in the sixth grade, where one third or more of the studies take place in Estonian. Finally, Estonian language learning accounts for 76% of the study volume. Last year, Mr Aaviksoo and I discussed Estonian-language teaching in Russian schools and the related problems that need to be solved. Among other things, at least two mention was made of Tapa's Russian Upper Secondary School, where parents claim that children studying under the late immersion programme had great difficulty in coping with Estonian-language learning. In our inquiry, we quote the verbatim of the parents' meeting at the upper secondary school. There is also a video footage of this meeting. If you're interested, you can show it. At this meeting, Irene Käosaar, Head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, attended the Russian Upper Secondary School of Tapa. He was accused of the fact that children who study in Estonian do not really speak Estonian or understand textbooks. On this point, Mrs Käosaar claimed that the textbook was not for reading and that there was no material available on the Internet. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister that I am not going to read out in terms of saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U99	Thank you very much. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U100	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners and other ambassadors! I will start by talking about immersion as a broader method of language learning. I assure you that, based on rather extensive international experience, immersion can be considered to be a sufficiently effective method, especially in cases such as Estonia, where language learning is difficult for many children because they communicate at home and, to a large extent, elsewhere outside the school in another language environment. Therefore, the overall assessment of immersion as a method is positive. Only recently in Estonia did the generation of young people who had started a immersion in the first class. In view of this fact, it has to be said that even if problems arise in the practical application of immersion, these experiences have been positive in every way and quite long-term. But now I'm gonna answer the questions. The first question: 'When does the Ministry of Education and Research plan to analyse the problems highlighted by TVG students and their parents in relation to late immersion? ' In October 2011, Irene Käosaar, Head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, accompanied our People in the Russian Upper Secondary School of Maire Kebbinau, coordinator of the immersion unit of the Integration and Migration Foundation. During the visit, a meeting was held with teachers and school management and a representative of the school owner, an educational official, Mare Tõnisson. During the visit, three hours were considered at different school levels: in primary school, the hours of the early immersion class, in eighth grade, the hours of the late immersion class, and in the eleventh grade, the Estonian-language physics class. All three hours took place in good Estonian, using an integrated method of teaching subjects and languages. Students mastered the language at a good level and actively participated in the learning process. During the visit, we also recalled what was said at the meeting mentioned in your letter. The school confirmed that work with parents has continued actively in the autumn. The Ministry of Education and Research asked the language immersion programme staff to support the school and explain possible problems. On 8 January 2013, national supervision will begin at the school, one part of which will be the organisation of education in Estonian. The assessment of what happened at the Russian Upper Secondary School in Tapa is as follows. In 2011 and 2012, Tapa met with Russian Upper Secondary School parents in summer schools. During the meetings, students were discussed and introduced to their parents the possibilities for further learning and the methodology for teaching subjects. All questions of interest to parents were also answered. At the meeting, the parents did not raise the question that children could not learn in Estonian. I will not dwell here on a number of other activities that have taken place both on the ground and with the support of the Ministry of Education and Research and other central authorities. However, I will conclude with a brief summary of the study results of the students of the Russian Gymnasium in Tapa. The educational advisor of the municipality of Tapa evaluates the school's activities as a developer of the immersion of the language, while providing flexible teaching that takes into account the wishes of parents. The effectiveness of the work done at this school is shown by the fact that in 2012 alone, upper secondary school graduates went on to study at 100%, two thirds of whom went on to study at higher education. The experience of language immersion as an excellent integration tool was shared by Tapa Russian Gymnasium in cooperation with kindergarten Rainbow and the language immersion centre at a language immersion conference in 2012. The aim is also to contribute to the introduction of the language immersion method in schools with Estonian language of instruction, where an increasing number of Russian-speaking students start to study each year, and to help learn from the experience of students' parents who wish to improve their awareness of immersion. The education officer and the head of the school are keen to avoid re-introducing an organised political speech meeting at the Russian Upper Secondary School of Tapa in May 2011 with the help of Yana Toomi, a member of the Riigikogu, which has unduly damaged the school's reputation and caused confusion among parents. The second question: 'What studies have been carried out in Estonia to assess the success or failure of late immersion? 'The latest studies of late immersion are Peeter Mehisto 'Sustainability of the late immersion programme' since 2009 (available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research) and the study of the impact of the late immersion of the educational research centre of Tallinn University since 2011 (also available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research). Both study samples also had Tapa Russian Gymnasium. During the studies, students, teachers, and parents were interviewed and their satisfaction, among other things, was studied. The results of the final exam of Estonian Language and Mathematics Elementary School were also examined in the Tallinn University survey, which was compared with the results of Estonian and Russian ordinary classes. The survey showed that the results of the Estonian language exam of late-snow class graduates are significantly better than those of normal classes. The results of the mathematics exam are a few percent higher than the results of the normal classes, which shows that studying in the late immersion class has not had a negative impact on studying mathematics and has not reduced the skills of the subject. More specifically, I wouldn't stop at it. The overall assessment of late immersion as a method is positive from these studies. Question 3: 'Irene Käosaar, Head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, explained that teaching literature in this form is absolutely unnecessary. What is the position of the Ministry of Education and Research on the role of teaching literature? " Irene Käosaare's claim was made in the context of immersion and was particularly concerned that the textbook did not play a leading or central role in the learning process, but was more important than the teacher and his chosen teaching methodology. In addition to the textbook, there are a wide range of educational resources, including the preparation of a wide range of special educational resources actively used by teachers under the immersion programme. You can find out about the educational material on the website ke.meis.ee/oppevara/toosites funded by the Ministry of Education and Research. So I'd like you to look at these materials. Question 4: "What 'alternative approaches' should be used to teach these children, who will not read even when they are given the book? How should these approaches be reflected in the national curriculum? " Good questioners! There are certainly many specific problems in teaching children in each particular case. I believe that both basic teacher training and refresher training have provided teachers with sufficient skills to address such issues. The specific problems concerning the immersion of the tongue, I think, are secondary here. Question 5: " Based on what studies or analyses did the Head of Department Irene Käosaar say that there are schools in Estonia where no textbooks are used at all? What schools are they, and how do such schools offer teaching? 'Oh, yeah! It is up to the teacher in Estonia to decide which educational resources to use to achieve the objectives set out in the curriculum. The educational resources are extremely diverse. We have given up the use of centralised, nationally reviewed teaching material and teaching literature, including textbooks, and given the teacher the freedom to use all available information to achieve his pedagogical goals. Teachers do it very differently. Some are based on published textbooks, some workbooks, etc. There has not been and will not continue to be such a degree of standardisation or national regulation in order to establish mandatory textbooks in the national norm documents and the teaching to which they refer. I believe that the central thing is the teacher and his preparation. The educational resources, including textbooks, support the work of the teacher. To conclude, the average results of the state exams of the Russian Upper Secondary School in Tapa have generally been better in the last five years than the results of the school with the Estonian language of instruction in the same city. Nor do such schools show a general downward trend. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that immersion is not a panacea that automatically improves students' learning outcomes. However, care should be taken to ensure that these results do not deteriorate. Experience so far has shown that the learning outcomes of immersion classes do not deteriorate. From a number of sources, it seems that Tapa Russian Gymnasium is a very problematic school, where learning outcomes are catastrophic, where there is an unacceptable situation and where there are other indirect and direct complaints to this school. I would like to point out that Tapa Russian Gymnasium is a good Estonian school, where work is done both in the completion of the national curriculum and specifically in national language studies, including language immersion, has received attention and deserves praise. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U101	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Inquiry, Mrs Käosaar's words from the verbatim of the parents' meeting are mentioned: "It is usually claimed that no more than 10% of children listen to the teacher. ' I have a firm opinion that this is a fiction to secure my position somehow. I would be very grateful if you could tell me where such a thing has been claimed. Can you even call a teacher a person who is listened to by three of the thirty students, day after day? Or has the Ministry carried out some kind of study that reveals that only 10% of children in Estonia really listen to a teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U103	I do not think that the phrases torn out of context will help us solve any substantive problems. I can assure you that, of course, the teaching process in school is crucially determined by the teacher and his words, but just as important as what the teacher says is the atmosphere that the teacher creates, the relationship between students, etc. So the learning and education process in school is much, much more complicated than the knowledge mediated by the word of the teacher. I believe that's what Irene Käosaar meant. It coincides with what I've heard from educators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U104	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am sincerely sorry that your reply included a political assessment of my actions. We tried to avoid these assessments in our inquiry. Even the defense police couldn't prove that I had arranged anything there, so Mrs. Käosaar couldn't possibly do it either. But that's it. I'm afraid you're not familiar with this, but I'll ask you this, just in case. Here were praised for the results of the mathematics examination of students at the Russian Gymnasium. Are you aware that it is not quite right to talk about mathematics right now, because mathematics is taught in this gymnasium in Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U106	I think that this focused raising of language issues, the opposition of Estonian to Russian and the opposition of Russian to Estonian are not constructive. I believe that very good work is done in Estonian schools. This is done in schools where the main language of instruction is Russian and is done in schools where the language of instruction is Estonian. As for the opinion that this issue has been politicised, it has not been claimed by either Irene Käosaar or Irene Käosaar, but by people from the same place as Tapa from the Russian Gymnasium. I think we could respect their views.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U107	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U108	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, If you are told that the results of learning in Estonian have improved in former Russian upper secondary schools, this is the same shit that is said in Latvia. If you go to a school like this in Latvia, as a foreigner, you will be shown no fear of how everything actually goes on in Russian in the same schools where the Latvian transition has taken place. That's it. If the Ministry of Education wants to deceive himself, let him cheat, but he can't deceive either the students or their parents. I am talking about a particular subject. When Irene Käosaar met Tapa's parents, a voice from the floor was recorded in the verbatim record of this meeting: "Children simply pluck substance into the head. ' That is true, they have no other choice. I'm in contact with a number of people whose children are now participating in this late immersion. That's exactly what they're saying: kids don't understand anything, they're just banging. Here there has been a huge regress, because thumping was the main element of school education before the mass appearance of books. It was just because there weren't enough books. Until the 17th century, cramming was the basic teaching method. The revolution was committed by Komenský in 1656 when he replaced the banging with didactics. But that does not mean that all over the world, including Estonia, this matter is understood. The downside is that since the material is not understood, it is not possible to use the knowledge obtained correctly if it can be called knowledge at all. At present, students in higher education are provided with a huge amount of study materials. The windmill's never gonna understand them, he's never gonna make it. Twisting tires, thumping is what makes the learning process boring. I'm afraid that's why children lose any interest in learning. The effect of memorizing information masses is to forget such materials just as quickly. Knowing what is really happening in the Estonian-language classes of Russian upper secondary schools, I can say that one of the two is correct: whether the Estonian education system has returned to the level of the 16th century or whether we are currently at the level of religious schools where one school memorizes the Bible and another Koran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U109	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U110	Madam President! I sincerely regret that the Minister does not take this problem seriously. That's what I got. I think it's a big mistake. First of all, I was amazed that Mr Aaviksoo, speaking of the success story of the immersion, did not divide the immersion into early and late. Those are two completely different things. No one disputes that the early immersion generally works very well and is a wonderful thing. But if children who have been studying Russian for five years are 33% of the hours in Estonian since the sixth grade and 76% since the seventh grade, it is much harder to learn. As for the fact that Mrs Käosaar met with parents at the same school during the summer and none of them raised the problem of children not being able to cope, it is not normal for parents to dare to speak to an official about their problems. The other option is that the official does not want to admit that the problems were up. The claim that all graduates of this school continue their studies is, unfortunately, not true. For example, two students of the previous late immersion class failed the Estonian language exam. Several people had to choose Tallinn Polytechnic to continue their studies, for the simple reason that it is still possible to study in Russian and that they are not able to study in Estonian. I agree with the Minister's assessment that Tapa Russian Gymnasium is a good school in every way. In fact, it is an honest school where the parents of students do not want to play Potemkin village and ask the state for help. But they don't seem to get that kind of help. As regards the results of the mathematics and Estonian language exams, on which the same study of the success of the late immersion was based, this school was a pure Potemkini village, because mathematics is taught there in Russian and so it cannot be said in any way that the study of subjects in Estonian is of benefit to these children. When it comes to the results of the examination, which you mentioned in your reply, Mr Minister, saying that the test centre is saying that everything is very well, it is not, in fact, the case. For years, three exams have been passed by the graduates of the Russian Upper Secondary School of Tapa, two of which, Estonian language and mathematics, are compulsory. The third exam is Russian. They choose the Russian language exam for the simple reason not to fail in other subjects. As for the study you referred to, this is one, I'm sorry, fog. It compared schools by five positions: learning outcomes, student forms, parents' forms, teacher focus groups interviews and student focus groups interviews. In the case of the Russian Gymnasium, two positions were excluded, namely, the student and parent forms that distort the picture were not taken into account. As far as interviews with focus groups are concerned, I am very sorry, but three teachers and six students participated in this study, and a meeting with these teachers and students was organised through classroom leaders. You don't have to think long about who's chosen to represent the school on these occasions. Lastly, as regards this study, if the results of the exam are compared with those of the immersion class and Russian language in the class, and if it turns out that the result of the state examination is 85.3 points in the immersion class, but 55.9 points in the normal class, then it probably means that all smarter and stronger children are in the immersion class and no one is doing much of it with others. If one school is taught by the same educators that there are 30 points between exams, this is not normal and this school needs help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U111	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U112	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Eldar Efendiev, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Kadri Samson on 14 November. a request for information on the abolition of the grades of educators. I would like to ask my colleague, Mailis Reps, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U113	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister for Education and Science, Today, a number of questions have been asked by Minister Jaak Aavikkogu regarding teachers' salaries and the funding of education in 2013. Firstly, there is the question of teachers' grades, the question of wages followed, and finally, we are talking about support services and special needs issues. The principles of modernising the educational organisation drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research aim to have a minimum teacher wage of at least EUR 700 from 1 January 2013 and an average teacher's salary, depending on qualifications and performance, at least 10% higher than the established minimum wage. This means that the current system of minimum rates of pay for primary school and upper secondary school teachers does not apply. If we look at the objective, it has become clear from both this document and the media (this topic has been repeatedly touched by the Riigikogu Committee on Culture) that the current system of teachers' grades and accreditation will be changed and replaced by a system of invitations. It is planned to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and its implementing acts. The aim is to change the concept of teacher, teacher's duties, work organisation and workload issues. It will also provide teachers with a future salary corresponding to their general working hours, covering the performance of all their duties. It replaces the existing system of premiums, the premium for the head of class and so on. Since certain changes have not been introduced into the Riigikogu Act, even more so, the Government of the Republic has not transferred the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school to the Riigikogu, it is unclear what will become of raising the salaries of teachers planned for 2013 in the state budget, whether and to what extent the salaries of the various grades will rise, and whether the work of the teacher and the teacher with a methodological teacher and a senior teacher, or teacher with experience, will still be appreciated in a proper manner. Consequently, we have a number of questions. I'm not going to read them here because the Minister will. We want to understand what the Ministry of Education and the Minister's goal is for the abolition of grades, how and to what extent these stages will remain in force in 2013, how this will be reflected in teachers' salaries and what plans will be made for the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. I would like to ask the Minister for the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U115	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioner and other ambassadors! The first question: 'On the basis of what analyses has the Ministry of Education and Research decided to lose the ranks of teachers? ' The current system of accreditation and the basic arrangements for the tarification of the remuneration of the teachers involved date back to 1985 when the Soviet Union's central authority introduced such a regime. This is still valid to a significant extent, despite the adoption of laws in the Republic of Estonia that organise the educational life of Estonia on other ideological and pedagogical grounds. These include, for example, the Professional Act, but also the Employment Contracts Act. Consequently, a number of partners have concluded that the current system of accreditation does not sufficiently support the professional development of the teacher and is too central to the formal requirements. These problems have been referred to by the broad-based working group set up under the "Estonian Teacher Education Strategy 2009 to 2013" and by the working group on the transformation of the teaching profession set up at the beginning of 2012 by the Ministry of Education and Research, involving representatives of the Estonian Association of Elders, the Estonian Association of Students Representations, the Estonian Teachers' Association, the Foundation Youth School, the Estonian School Leaders' Association, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the Estonian Chamber of Occupations, the Estonian Association of Cities, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn. The central idea is to transfer the qualifications of teachers to the same bases that have been transferred to the assessment of other qualifications in the Republic of Estonia, and not to hold on to the historical heritage that currently determines the basis of the teacher's professional progress. Those are the reasons. The above also referred to the analysis on which this decision is based. Now I'm talking about more substance. Since such a system is substantially reflected in the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the abolition of this system can only be achieved by means of a legislative amendment. This amendment will still reach Parliament this year and will be processed over the next year. This means that in 2013, the grades will remain, and the minimum wage rates corresponding to the grades will remain, which will have to be established by the Government of the Republic on the basis of this law. So everything that concerns 2013 will in principle remain on the basis to date. However, as of 1 January 2014, we want to switch to the assessment of the qualifications of teachers on the basis of professional standards, professional law and everything else related to professional organisation in Estonia. The second question: "How does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to recognise teachers who are committed to their profession and willing to share their long-term experience with others? ' I believe that, like us, all teachers are committed to their profession and, to a greater or lesser extent, willing to share their experiences with others, especially with younger colleagues, but not only with teachers. Who and how should this practice be recognised? As in other disciplines, first recognition comes from teachers' own colleagues and employers. If it is a local government school, it is from the local government and its representative, i.e. the headmaster. When it comes to public school, it is from the state and the headmaster appointed by the state. There will certainly continue to be public support for teachers' salaries, although changes are also needed here. Above all, care must be taken to ensure that the money paid by teachers really reaches the teachers, no matter what other temptations there are to use that money for other purposes. So, above all, this recognition should come from the employer, but it will certainly continue to be recognised at national level. The Ministry of Education and Research does so by mentioning outstanding teachers by the name of the teacher of the year and at many other national teacher recognition events. The Ministry of Education and Research also presents many Estonian service teachers for national decorations. I am pleased that many teachers have received this recognition. The third question: 'The organisations representing teachers have offered for several years that there should be more than four grades of teachers and that there have been 6 or 8 offers. Why was it decided to choose a post instead? " This is a mistake. No one has chosen one, two, four or 76 grades. The logic of grades is intended to be abolished as a whole as a system rather than replaced by a four-stage system with a one-step system. As has been said, as of 1 January 2014, a hierarchical system of professions operating under professional law, corresponding to the European Qualifications Framework, should take its place. It is generally an eight-step system, but for teachers, there are sub-levels within certain stages. In total, these qualifications could be based on the current perceptions of the month, which correspond more or less to what has been mediated to you by the teachers' representative organisations. I believe that such regulation will be laid down, and such a ladder, if you would like to say so, will remain in force in the future, although I hope not on the basis of Soviet tarification. Question 4: 'The teachers' representative organizations have offered that the pedagogical methodology as the highest level should be eternal after the second appointment. How does the Ministry plan to highlight pedagogy methodologies in the future? ' I've already told you about the highlight. As has been said, if the system of grades is replaced by a qualification system with a general framework of eight levels, but there are six levels for teachers, there is certainly also a place for teachers with the highest qualifications. So recognition of qualifications will continue to be maintained. The question now is whether the qualification could be fixed-term, or whether it should be open-ended. In my opinion, it is not reasonable to require formal qualifications to prove that there is no camel. However, I do believe that there is a legitimate approach that teachers, and not just them, should constantly improve their professional skills in order to keep up with the changing times. Understandably, such companionship is not feasible for anyone, regardless of the profession, for example, as a teacher. It is appropriate to understand that some qualifications may lapse if they are not renewed. Decisions on the length of time and future qualification levels need to be taken before the qualification status of teachers is confirmed. I hope that the views expressed here on the current level of qualification of the methodological pedagogue will also be taken into account. Last, fifth question: On what basis will different pay rates be set for teachers in the future? ' We in the Ministry of Education and Research agree that, regardless of the proposed changes, teachers could have one national minimum wage, one national minimum wage. From 1 January 2013, this minimum is expected to be increased by nearly 17%, so that the pay rate of teachers with the lowest pay will rise from 1 January to at least EUR 715 or more than 17%. Such an increase in the minimum rate should also be planned for the coming years until it is gradually approaching the national average wage rate. That is, at least, our political will. As regards the level of pay for each particular teacher, it is still a matter of agreement between the employer and the employee and should be removed as such. However, I very much hope that the guidance materials prepared at the Ministry of Education and Research, on the basis of which the principles of the organisation of the school's salary should be developed and agreed at each school, will also be helpful in concluding bilateral employment contracts between the employer and the employee. I have repeatedly emphasised and I would like to emphasise here that the minimum wage should be 20% higher than the teachers' average wage. But how much bigger it is, it depends on a specific agreement. It is quite certain that wage arrangements must have a clear place in the teacher's qualifications, which will be awarded in the future by the Chamber of Commerce under the professional law. As has been said, there could be a six-step scale. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U116	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Apart from the ideological aspect, I must say that I did not hear an adequate explanation as to why the grades should actually be abandoned. But when you come back to the ideological part, it is all understandable: it is necessary to give up the ranks, because they have been established, as you say, in 1985 and, in other words, they carry some Soviet ideology. As far as I know, there was also a Minister of Education in Estonia in 1985. Perhaps now the office of Minister of Education should be abolished. Perhaps an agency with this name also has some ideological content that has something to do with communist ideology?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U118	Please ask a question first. It's time for questions. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U119	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U120	I, too, did not know how to find a question in this speech. This interesting statement must remain in the report of the Riigikogu. I don't know how else to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U121	I asked in very clear Estonian whether the position of the Minister of Education existed during Soviet Estonia should now be abolished. That was my question. How can you say I haven't formulated the question? I did it in 57 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U122	I'm sorry! An inquiry is about the loss of the grades of educators. We are not currently discussing whether there should be a position as Minister of Education in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U123	Thank you for the clarification. I would like to remind the Highly Honoured People's Envoy that there is currently no Minister of Education in the Republic of Estonia; in the Republic of Estonia there is a Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U124	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U125	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. How do you feel about the idea that, in the future, the pay conditions of teachers and the basis for their appointment could be determined by a framework collective agreement between the Ministry of Education, the associations of local authorities, the association of school leaders and the association of teachers, and which would form the basis for collective agreements in specific schools and municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U126	Thank you. I am not a very big believer in the miraculous power of collective agreements, although I understand that such multilateral negotiations certainly have a positive content. Unfortunately, education in Estonia is a situation where teachers and other educational staff have different employers. Unfortunately, once upon a time, there has been no success in complying with the law's provision, which still provides for multilateral negotiations. That's for one very simple reason. My better knowledge and, at the very least, the negotiations that have taken place with me, the local authorities have not been able to put together a delegation that would have the power to make any binding commitments on behalf of local authorities as employers. It seems to me that this is a pretty fundamental restriction. As regards the wage conditions of educators working in public schools, including teachers, and the negotiations between the Ministry of Education and representative organisations representing these teachers, where both school leaders and other social partners could participate as third parties, this is certainly a more practical mechanism. But the biggest problems, as has been said, are not with public schools. It has been quite easy to solve wage issues, even though there could always be more money. The question is that the state is not an employer for local government employees, despite the fact that according to the law, the state supports specific local authorities with wage resources. What local governments are going to do with these salaries is a difficult problem that we have been talking about here and maybe we will talk about it again today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U127	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Education! Is the cost of this Soviet heritage that the hope of senior teachers and Methodologists that their pay will rise next year will remain merely a dream because, above all, the wage of junior teachers will increase next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U129	This certainly does not mean that not all teachers should have to raise their pay, but it is planned to move towards a single wage rate. But how school leaders make decisions, I can't take responsibility for that. As has already been said, the wage fund allocated from the state budget to local authorities is increasing by more than 11%. This 11% covers all teachers, both those with a minimum wage of less than EUR 700 and those with a salary of more than EUR 800, amounting to EUR 890, as for methodological educators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U130	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U131	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, In fact, education costs will not increase next year. I understand you're making a choice for the school leaders. They have to raise the minimum fees, but they have to do it at someone else's expense. It is likely that it is the Methodists who may discover next year that the director will have no choice but to reduce his salary. Is that why these steps are being abolished?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U132	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U133	First of all, the claim that the pay of Methodologists is falling is speculative. Obviously, it is not unknown to you that I have repeatedly confirmed that no wage rate, which has been set, will be reduced, nor will it be the pay rate of Methodologists. Your second claim was that the local government support fund would not grow. I confirm that the Fund will grow, including an increase from EUR 143 million to EUR 160 million in teachers' salaries. I very much hope that our negotiations with the local authorities will take a constructive path, and we can be sure that all this money will be left to the teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, It may seem that everything is right and that the vision of the future is right. But my question is that schoolteachers recently came to the street with their demands. When you think about what they said, you can see that they have turned their minds to the future. How do you rate it? Teachers not only demand a higher salary, but they want their work to be respected and valued. It is a pity that the prestige of a schoolteacher has decreased and that there may be a shortage of teachers in the future. There are graduates, but there are no teachers. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U135	It can be said that although there are not enough teachers in individual schools for positions of less stress, we do not have a shortage of teachers as a whole at the moment. We have structural problems relating to teacher follow-up, in the sense that we do not have enough young people to come to school, but there are a lot of experienced teachers who have been carrying this cart so far. As far as the recognition of teachers is concerned, we can all do this, too, in this Chamber. This must not only be the sole responsibility of the Minister of Education, but also the importance of wider social recognition. I have said that the remuneration of teachers is a priority for the Ministry of Education and Research. I hope that this is also Parliament's priority and that the proposals to raise the pay of teachers in Parliament will receive support. I hope that it will also be supported that all the teachers' salaries will reach the teachers and that all their tasks will be included in the reform of the teaching profession in order to bring the actual workload into line with those laid down in the law. I do not see any contradiction here, rather the need to cooperate more and to seek affordable solutions. As has already been said, this should not be done in contrast. There is no need to see in the proposals of the Ministry of Education and Research a desire to trade someone's salary lower or otherwise discredit the teaching profession. In your questions, such an attitude was at times evident. This has certainly not been my intention and I do not believe that this would have been the wish of anyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U136	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, From what you're saying, it's gonna look like the headmasters are going to be put in a tank. You've made promises that the pay will rise, but they'll have to start sharing that little money. Could you repeat again, please? I still don't understand how it's possible that education costs are the same, but teachers' salaries are up 11%. Where exactly are you gonna take that money from?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U138	It's hard for me to help you if you can't find an increase in education costs in the state budget law. The Ministry of Education and Research's budget is growing. The general education budget is growing, the budget for higher education is growing, the VET budget is also increasing. The problem, just as the education budget is not growing, is very difficult for me to understand. I'm not gonna waste any time trying to explain this. I can show you from the state budget law after these amounts and indicate exactly how much the budget will increase in which area of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U139	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Let's say, frankly, when it comes to losing the ranks of educators, you and your team want to have a full revolution in schools. But my question is about higher education. There too are people who could be called educators. Are you going to be just as strict in higher education in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U141	Good questioner! This question is quite pertinent. As we know, there has not been a system of grades in Estonian higher education institutions, nor has there been a system of grades today. Despite this, all Estonian higher education institutions, both public universities and universities of applied sciences have been able to introduce pay scales and hierarchys that take into account, in one way or another, the qualifications of pedagogical staff and teaching staff, their performance and all related aspects. This is a pretty good example of how, even without your preferred grade and tarification system, it is possible to put together well-functioning pay systems. With regard to minimum salaries, I mention that there is no minimum wage rate in higher education institutions. This is the same as for all other civil servants, which is much lower than for teachers, while salaries in higher education are somewhat higher than in the general education system. So neither the system of grades nor the minimum wages actually provide sufficient income, which is guaranteed by the right management decisions at all levels and the corresponding resources. Since 2013, local governments have 11% more money at their disposal to pay teachers than this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U142	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U143	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister for Education and Science, I believe that most teachers have a slight reluctance to change, but their main and first question is this: 'Okay, a new system of professional standards will now be replaced by a new system of professional standards. The name is European and everything is great. But how will my salary depend on it? I work hard, organise all kinds of national events and physical counseling. If I'm developing and I'm doing well, I'm going to be in the fifth or sixth grade, or I'm going to get out like the few people who are now Methodists. So is my salary 20% or 30% higher? '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U144	This is a question of how much we want to formalise the indicators that should guide the head of the institution in determining the level of pay. In most areas of life, Estonia lacks formalised procedures, for example, that so much is given for seniority, so much for qualification, so much for learning foreign languages, much for some performance indicators, and then they are added up, and the addition results in a wage rate. In most cases, it still looks like the employer's and employee's wage negotiations, which take place on taking up employment and with reasonable regularity, at least once a year, will consider all the inputs that affect wages, their qualifications, performance at work and other indicators, and will result in a decision on whether or not to increase the wage rate in initial negotiations. In some, it rises by 1%, in some by 6%, in others by 2%. This will depend on the opportunities identified by the budget and economic progress. I think there is no reason for us to formalise all this more in the case of teachers. I understand that the current system has been clear about the stage of qualification, but I also know that many school leaders, as well as teachers, are rightly criticising this system. The reason is that if an employee does more in school than his duties require, he spends more time in performing tasks that are not directly reflected in the qualifications framework, his salary does not depend on it. But if a person directs his activity out of school in order to qualify as a Methodist, his salary automatically rises. I think that a flexible system that takes into account all the issues related to the output of the work is more sensible. Although valuables can never be completely avoided, we have reason to trust Estonian school leaders. They probably do all of this in a reasonable way and do not betray teachers' trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U145	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U146	Madam President! Thank you very much to the Minister. Now I know you must always be called the Minister of Education and Science. After all, you have made it clear to me why the number of children in school is falling dramatically, why wages are not in line with demand, why there are no textbooks, why the school system has been turned into a complete mess, and why the grades are responsible for everything. If you ask why they're guilty, the answer is because they're from 1985. Our Minister of Education and Science has fought against communism and socialism for the rest of his life. He didn't achieve anything during the Soviet era, and he has every right to claim that some five words that are completely neutral and used everywhere in the world where education is even a little carried out are to blame for everything. Everything I've heard just now gives me great pessimism. I thank God that almost no one is watching these transfers from here and hears the Minister. It's embarrassing when you think people should listen to something like that. There's also depression, like in the next story. One night a ship drowned, and in the morning only two survivors floated in the waves. One of them was a sailor. Another survivor asked the sailor how far this land was now. The sailor answered from the gloom that two kilometers away. The other survivor asked if it was to the right or to the left. The sailor showed it was straight down. With about the same optimism, we are solving these problems here. Ladies and gentlemen, What's the point of asking if there's a shortage of teachers? How can there be a shortage of teachers when the number of children in schools has fallen in 11 years? There were 218000 students, but this year there are less than 135,000. How can anything systemic or logical be required here when we just heard Irene Käosaar tells us that you don't need any textbooks? That means you have to tuck in. But this year, according to memory, somewhere in the early spring, the Minister of Education and Science announced that there was no need to know the facts. When it comes to history, we just need to know ideologically the true course of history. The Minister and his subordinate speak completely the opposite. You're lucky nobody analyses what you're doing and where you're wasting your money. No one wants to listen to us Russian children's parents, because it's easier to start believing in crap when you listen. Today in this hall, you were actually telling a direct lie when you spoke about the Russian Gymnasium. That's too bad! But this behavior has never led anyone to victory in any matter. It always ends in death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U147	Thank you. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U148	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister for Education and Science, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! So what did we look at and analyse on this item? Firstly, when we talk about the 2013 budget, to which we will come when we discuss the next item on the agenda, it must be said that almost every debate on this issue will bring out different figures. At the same time as we look at the negotiations on the annual education money, or the working group of local governments and the Government of the Republic, which will coordinate or not coordinate the positions of next year, the amount allocated to local authorities to finance education in 2013 is just as large as this year. An explanation has been given that certain amounts will decrease, i.e. they will leave the education money allocated to local authorities, and there will be an additional 4.7% increase in the pay of teachers in the education money. However, the argument that the educational funding allocated to local authorities will increase next year is not correct. The amount put on the table by local authorities is just as high as in 2012. When we look at the dispute with grades in 2013, the first news on this issue was that one grade, with a salary of EUR 715, will be approved for next year. After that, of course, it was very difficult for teachers to understand further news. Today, it has been confirmed that since the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has not been amended, the minimum wage rates for the senior teacher and the Methodist teacher will be fixed this year in addition to this rate of EUR 715. Stand by. But one way or another, the confirmation from this remote control that the income of these two grades is actually increasing is not true. Now for the next question. If we lose our ranks, assuming that the Riigikogu reaches such a decision (I hope it doesn't, but maybe if the coalition has decided so), what do teachers expect from the new system? It's basically the same. They expect and expect that if they upgrade their professional skills and receive the next degree, then the next, etc., they will be rewarded for this in some way, because the next degree will not be sent simply, but will need to be improved, it will be determined on the basis of seniority, work experience, etc. So if we look at the abolition of minimum wage rates, it is not a question of whether we like these names or not, whether or not we like these approved steps, but the question is whether the currently recognised senior teachers and Methodists can expect a higher minimum rate in the future and whether their experience will continue to be taken into account to a greater extent. Moreover, in the case of methodological teachers or methodological educators, it is important to stress that we have perhaps, over the years, unfairly expected such work from these people, which has been extremely necessary, for example, for practical advice, training, the preparation of methodological materials, but also for these people to support the Ministry of Education and Research in taking various initiatives. It will certainly be necessary to highlight such activities in the future. It is clear that the Riigikogu will not amend the law before 1 January 2013. These debates, whether and to what extent this law should be amended, are still ahead. We hope that in 2013 the minimum pay rates for the senior teacher and the Methodist teacher will actually rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U149	Thank you, Mr Mailis Reps! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. But, ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the next question, I will give you an important message. Pursuant to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Riigikogu will convene additional sessions in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. The first additional meeting will be held on 7 December 2012 beginning at 13 a.m. The sitting shall be open until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 12 noon on 8 December. Secondly, if not all the drafts on the agenda of the first additional sitting can be discussed, the second additional meeting will take place on 8 December 2012 at 4 p.m. The sitting shall be open until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. on 9 December. All those drafts which were not discussed at the first additional sitting are on the agenda of the second additional sitting. Thirdly, if not all the drafts on the agenda of the second additional sitting can be discussed, the third additional meeting will be held on 9 December 2012 beginning at 6 p.m. The sitting shall run until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 9 a.m. on 10 December. All those drafts which were not discussed at the second additional sitting are on the agenda of the third additional sitting. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U150	This is not the board's conscious policy. It is a conscious policy of one party who thinks it is better to discuss drafts at night. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U151	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Would you explain to the members of the Riigikogu why you are assigning extraordinary sessions to the time of the night? I see you've left breaks between sessions during the day and set up an extra working night. Is this the board's conscious policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U152	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Centre Party has said that ending night sessions is in the hands of the IRL and Reform Party. This will only require a joint decision and a reduction of the electricity excise duty so that the electricity price increase will not be so high next year. Then we wouldn't have any need to work at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U153	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Let's keep going. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U154	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I didn't get it. If this week's agenda is exhausted by Thursday, will these additional sessions that you have announced still be held? So what's their agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U155	One of these announced sessions will certainly take place, with five new drafts on the agenda. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U156	Thank you. I will continue with Mr Allik's question. What are the five new questions that come on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U157	These are the following: the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Second reading of the Act amending the Law amending the Law amending the Law amending the Law on study grants and student loans and the Law amending the Law on the organisation of taxation, when the second reading is completed; the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on environmental fees initiated by the Government of the Republic when the second reading is completed; the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Financial Management of the Local Government Unit and the Law on the organisation of local government, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the amendment of the Estonian Reform Party and the Law on the Police and Border Guard of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union on 21 November. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U158	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. This last draft, which you mentioned, has not yet been handed over to the Riigikogu. Is this about losing police pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U159	This bill has been handed over, you just don't know it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U160	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Is this bill about losing police pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U161	No, it's a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act. I can't tell you exactly right now. But this bill has been processed because it has also been assigned a number of 326. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U162	I heard, Madam President, that the third reading of the draft law on student grants and student loans was also on the agenda when the second reading was completed. The Committee on Culture today did not take any procedural decisions regarding the third reading. I was at the committee meeting until the end. Can the Board of the Riigikogu itself, without the Commission's proposal, put the drafts on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U163	Yeah, the board can make the agenda itself. We have agreed that the Committee on Culture will make the relevant decisions. [[Laughter.]] Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U164	I say one more time: the third reading will take place when the second reading is finished. These decisions may be taken after completion of the second reading. Okay. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U165	Thank you. As a member of the Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu, I would like to say that the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, which was put to third reading at the extraordinary session, was today subject to procedural decisions regarding the second reading. Amendments were tabled for an hour's working time, but no longer. There has definitely been no decision on the third reading. I was at the meeting from start to finish, and I can say that the decision that this draft should be on the agenda of this week has not been made in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But now you are calling an emergency meeting to discuss what the Commission has not decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U166	Madam President! On the basis of which item of Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure or point of law can the Board of the Riigikogu dictate to the Commission the results of a procedural decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U167	The decision of the additional sitting and its agenda are prepared by the Management Board of the Riigikogu. We have already had negotiations with the committees. They asked for a third reading. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U168	I do not understand what you mean by the fact that you have been negotiating with the committees. The Commission has not discussed this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U169	Look, we have it written here, in case the second reading is finished. This means that the Commission can also meet after the second reading has been completed and then take new procedural decisions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U170	Of course, he may come together, but the Commission will make a procedural decision. You cannot put this draft on the agenda before, because perhaps the Commission will only decide to do this third reading next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U171	Then we'll just take this bill off the agenda. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U172	Thank you. We had a draft 326 on the pensions of policemen and border guards at the committee today. The Commission decided that this draft would appear on Tuesday, not Friday or any other day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U173	Okay. It is, unfortunately, very difficult for me to say when these drafts have been put on the agenda. Perhaps my colleague, Kaia Iva, can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U174	Thank you. I believe that the members of the committees are pleased to see that it is possible to process the drafts more rapidly. It could not have been known to the committees that an additional hearing could be held. Now, as this opportunity opens, it is possible to speed up the work process of the Riigikogu. I think that's a very good option.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U175	I say once again that third readings of these drafts will be on the agenda of the additional sittings when the other readings are closed. It is very often the case that, after the completion of the second reading, an extraordinary meeting of the Commission can be held at which procedural decisions can be discussed. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U176	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Have the opposition representatives been excluded from the work of the committees? Also, some vice-chairmen of the Commission do not know that the Commission has re-examined its procedural decisions. Who, then, has said this on behalf of the Commission if neither the members of the Commission nor the vice-chairman know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U177	Dear Kadri Samson! I repeat, it is said here that the third reading will take place when the second reading is completed. After completion of the second reading, the Commission may meet and take a new procedural decision. But if it doesn't happen, it won't happen. That is the right of the Commission. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U178	Please repeat what time the Bureau made that decision today. Then I know if our committee chairman would have done the right thing if he had given us the information that this was the plan. What time did the board make that decision? The meeting of the Committee on Finance was held today 11 to 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U179	That decision was made today. The board met at 3.48 p.m. Look, this is how it is written: the third reading will take place when the second reading is finished. If, after the second reading, the Commission does not take such a procedural decision, it does not appear on the agenda. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U180	Chairman! Would you please enlighten us? We adopted this week's agenda at 15:12, but 36 minutes later you decided to add to it. So what happened in 36 minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U181	The agenda was supplemented or further sessions will take place mainly because the Centre Party wants to discuss all draft laws very thoroughly. The law requires an additional hearing to be announced three days earlier. We made this decision in consensus in the Bureau. When all these draft laws that are currently underway are discussed, there will be only one brief additional session. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U182	Thank you. My colleague, Mrs Iva, is not even a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs; she cannot say what we in the Commission are delighted about or not. It's not a hundred meter run. We are interested in quality, not such an aimless storm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U183	What kind of aimless storm? I'm sure you've had time to discuss the bill. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps, then, you will give some idea why committees should even take procedural decisions in the future if the Bureau can come together and all the procedural decisions taken by the Commission are completely discretionary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U185	I will try to explain to you once again that decisions on the third reading can also be made after the second reading. Also because the sessions of the Riigikogu have been stretched, new decisions have had to be made when the draft can be discussed again. These decisions have been very numerous lately. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U186	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. After 15.48 I came to talk to my benchmate here in the Riigikogu, who is known to be part of the Riigikogu's board of directors. You said a consensual decision was made at 3:48 p.m. He said, however, that the decision was not made because you did not know what you were putting on the agenda. So at 3:48 p.m., when there was a ten-minute break, this consensual decision could not be made. So when was it made? During a ten-minute break, you did not have an emergency session on the agenda and this decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U187	The agenda for the extraordinary sitting was simply not yet precisely formulated. We talked about which drafts are coming to the debate in exceptional circumstances. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U188	Did you make a decision before you knew what was on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U189	No. It was just a little complicated because we didn't have that decision on paper. But we showed you which drafts will come on the agenda. There's a agenda. However, we provided that, if the debate on all draft laws continues for as long as it has been the case so far, we would probably not be able to go through this week's agenda at one o'clock on Thursday. As you remember, when we wanted to take a decision last Thursday to continue the debate on Friday, it turned out that the notice period was too short. Now we're going to give you more notice. If the drafts that are on the agenda today cannot be discussed, there will be further meetings. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U190	I'm sure you do. I said that the Commission can always meet exceptionally between second and third readings. I'm sure it's possible. Once again, if the Commission does not meet or take such a decision, the draft will not be on the agenda. At the moment, these five points have simply come up. However, the main point is the agenda for the additional sitting, which will probably include those drafts that cannot be discussed at regular sittings. That's the main thing. We already know how much time it has taken to discuss previous drafts. If the debate is taking place more quickly, there will be no further sessions. That's it. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U191	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe you'll help me out a little, because I'm confused. I don't know how to behave. My understanding is that before every reading, the Commission must state its position. Does the Commission not need to state its position before the third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It did not make any sense to me that when the Riigikogu Board decided, as if by 15.48 p.m., to convene an additional session, did you have a full agenda at that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U193	At that point, we had a full agenda, but it wasn't just put on paper as needed. It's okay now. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U194	I'll explain it one more time. We have seen for the last two weeks that one party is discussing all the drafts very thoroughly. I think this is very good, except for ten-minute breaks, which I do not support. But an in-depth debate is, in my opinion, excellent, in terms of both questions and presentations. We looked at how much we have not yet discussed the drafts because the discussions have been very lengthy. We understood that during the regular sessions of this week we simply do not have time to process them all. That is why we have an additional sitting on the agenda of all those drafts that we cannot discuss during the regular sessions. There will be no further hearing when we get there. Okay. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U195	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. You have said many times today that the reason why an emergency sitting is needed is that the Centre Party has drawn attention to the need for a reduction in electricity excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U196	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U197	I'm a member of the Committee on Culture. On Wednesday this week, the second reading of the draft law amending the Study Grants and Student Loan Act and the Tax Administration Act will take place on the 12th agenda item. How, and therefore how long are we discussing this 12th point, does it relate to the fact that the third reading of this draft must definitely take place in an additional session? The third reading has always been scheduled for the next week, hasn't it? How does the length of the second reading this week affect the fact that the third reading must take place this week?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U198	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. As a member of your oldest Riigikogu, you are certainly an example of how we must comply with the rules imposed on us. That's why I've got another idea right now. You mentioned that additional sessions have been convened on the basis of a consensual decision of the Riigikogu Board. Would it be possible to see right now the minutes of the Riigikogu's Executive Board, which have three signatures? You too must follow the rules in an exemplary manner. Can I see the record of three board members...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U199	I'm sorry, but the protocol always has one signature under it. The President of the Riigikogu shall sign on behalf of the Executive Board. But we had an agreement with Mr. Ratas that he would accept an additional hearing. By the way, if we go to the end, it must be said that it was Mr. Ratas who was the initiator that we made this decision known today. We would have come up with this tomorrow. I don't know what he told you. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U200	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. I come back to our beloved draft law amending the law on student grants and student loans and the Tax Administration Act 236. You said that the drafts put on the agenda for an additional sitting are those that will not be able to be dealt with this week. The third reading of Bill 236 was not on the agenda of this week until you proposed it. How does the pace of the second reading depend on the need for this draft to be discussed at an additional sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U201	The main debate will probably take place at second reading, usually with a very thorough debate. As two political groups proposed some draft legislation, which could be read in a further session, the Bureau put these drafts on the agenda. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U202	Mr. Ratas saw the agenda, but he certainly hasn't seen the final option. However, he agreed that further meetings would take place. The agenda will be sent out later. It was e-mailed out. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U203	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to clarify: did Mr Ratas accept the agenda for these extraordinary sittings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U204	Thank you, Madam President. I ask once again: can, in principle, the Riigikogu Board put some drafts on the agenda, even though the Commission has not discussed it? After all, this puts direct pressure on the Commission to discuss this draft very quickly and to take a decision that is appropriate for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U205	Sorry, but we did not put on the agenda anything that the Commission has not discussed. It was suggested that it would be possible to make a third reading. You know very well that the longest debates are taking place at first and second readings, the third reading is, in fact, already a final vote. Once again, the third reading will take place when the second reading is completed. Perhaps the second reading will be interrupted and then there will be no debate. There have been very many cases when it has been decided at second reading that reading must be interrupted and that is it. That is why this is a written condition: in case the second reading is completed. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U206	Thank you, Madam President. Did I hear correctly that if we can process all the drafts on the approved agenda, this draft law on student grants and student loans will no longer be in a hurry at the third reading on Friday, and we will not discuss it this week?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U207	That is already up to the Commission. If he decides so, we can take it to a different time. Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a serious problem with the legitimacy and clarity of our procedures. There was a statement that the Reform Party of the Committee on Culture and the members of the IRL agreed, and then three points came forward. Does this mean that there will be group action in the committees, where part of the committee will go together separately? That they go together, I know, but has it really gotten so bad that they can talk on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U209	No, it's not that bad. Once again, we have not written here that there will be a third reading. We have written that the third reading will take place when the second reading is completed. Of course, there must also be a Commission decision in the meantime. If the Commission does not decide that, it will not be on the agenda. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu state that if the Board of the Riigikogu convenes an additional sitting, there must be a agenda for this sitting. I still understand that when the board made a decision, at least one member of the board was not aware of the agenda. Consequently, the decision was not consensual. I think that if the Bureau's decision is not consensual, it is necessary to put the vote immediately in this Chamber on whether or not to hold an additional sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U211	I cannot say that this decision was not consensual. This Bureau meeting came at the initiative of Jüri Ratas, who wanted us to come out today with a message that there would be an additional session. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U212	Madam President! On Monday, the judge says that on Friday, the defendant must be shot if the prosecutor proves his guilt on Wednesday. You are offering us to accept a decision made on the basis of the same logic. I support the opinion that has now been heard that such things, if consensus has not been demonstrated, must at least be put to the vote. Then, please, command the committees and let them do as you wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U213	I'll take the chairman's ten-minute break and the board will meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U214	Please, let's begin! Please, colleague Peter Võsa! I want to tell you all first... Oh, please, your question first!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U215	Thank you. That's my question. The break was over, but there was no work here. In such a situation, what does the law provide for what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U216	I'm sorry! I should have taken a longer break. I hope you'll forgive me. What happened here is not illegal. Let's continue. Next are the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev... Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question and my colleague, Mr Tammel, was: what happened now with the additional sessions, what is their agenda and what did the Bureau decision actually say?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U218	I have read to you when the additional sessions will take place. The agenda for the additional sittings is all those drafts that we cannot discuss at regular sittings, plus the five other drafts that I have told you about. The agenda for the additional sitting is prepared by the Riigikogu Board. If the committees are unable to fill in any item on the agenda, there will be no debate on this item. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U219	The next question is the question of the increase in the pay of teachers submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Mailis Repsi, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali and Kadri Samson on 14 November. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U220	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Dear Minister, 14 members of the Central Party Group, including Kadri Simson, the Chairman of our Group, have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science about the increase in teachers' pay in 2013. By going around Estonian schools, talking to school principals and teachers, it is clear that everyone is looking forward to an 11% wage increase. The reality is, however, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the increase in wages. It is said that money is 5.4% to 5.5% of the wage increase, it is said that 7.5 million euros are spoken of and that more than 8 million euros are missing, namely 8.2 million euros. So where does this 11% raise come from? I have personally asked a number of high school or upper secondary school directors whether his school will provide all teachers with an 11% raise next year or whether, for example, a Methodist who is also the head of the class may reduce the real income in 2013. The directors have replied that yes, it could happen. This raise has caused quite a lot of confusion. We want to know whether or not the salary for all levels of teachers will increase by 11% next year. There are also two national self-government associations in Estonia: the Association of Rural Municipalities and the Association of Cities. If you ask for a position there, they can't tell where that 11% raise is coming from either. Dear Minister, It has turned out from your public statements that this 11%, or EUR 15.7 million, comes from various sources: this EUR 7.5 million, savings, changes in the share of training money, changes in investment, and some extraordinary funds, which are more than EUR 4 million. These questions have troubled us. Let's be honest, we've been in trouble at a lot of meetings with answers. I have asked four questions with my groupmates. We ask you to answer them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U221	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Education and Science of the Chair Jaak Aaviksoo to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U222	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners and other ambassadors! I start by trying to repeat, first, what I've said and, second, what kind of words you're trying to put in my mouth. The employer pays the salary to the employees. In local government schools, this is done by the local government, in state schools through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the state supports local governments in paying the salaries of teachers, directors and teachers. That's what the law says. In addition, the Act states that the Government of the Republic sets minimum rates of pay by grade for all teachers. So, what can the state do? The state can set minimum wage rates and allocate support to local authorities to pay wages. Salary is paid in municipal schools by the local government, private schools by a private owner and public schools by the state. How much is paid to each particular teacher cannot be decided by the state, except in public schools. Now, what the Minister of Education and Science has promised, what the Government of the Republic has written into the draft state budget on the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research, and which I hope will also find your approval. In the 2013 budget, the following changes have taken place in relation to local government education support compared to the 2012 budget: In 2012, the Fund amounted to EUR 200,8 million. In 2013, EUR 200,9 million will be allocated to this Fund. These amounts are very close, but if you read the materials attached to this bill, you will understand that some of the expenditure previously borne by local authorities is now in the budget of the Ministry of Education. Firstly, the school lunch grant, which is EUR 0.4 million. This applies to all private schools to which grants are granted directly in 2013 and not through local authorities. This is due to the fact that several private schools have complained that local authorities do not transfer the state budget support to them on time or in full. For this reason, the Ministry of Education and Research has considered it reasonable to ensure that teachers' salaries are also available to teachers in private schools, directly through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. This also applies to the remuneration allowance (EUR 0,4 million), the grant for the acquisition of educational resources (EUR 0,2 million), the investment aid (EUR 0,02 million), the additional training facilities (EUR 4.5 million) and a number of other amounts. The total amount of the amounts is 12.4 million kroons. Thus, for 12.4 million kroons, sorry, for the euro, the Ministry of Education and Research will assume the commitments that were in the local government budget for the coming year. In total, an increase of EUR 12.4 + 0.1 million means that in 2013 the local government will have EUR 12.5 million more to carry out the same tasks. In addition to this, it is not intended to reserve education grants from which up to 4.2 million kroons were distributed to local governments to cover various costs on the basis of applications, and the fact that the amount of further training is 4.5 million kroons in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research and 3.5 million kroons in the supplementary training, all of this together allows for an increase in the teacher's wage subsidy of 15.9 million kroons. Thus, comparable amounts are set at EUR 149,8 million this year and EUR 160 million in the coming year, or in 2013. On a comparable basis, the increase is above 11%. I would like to emphasise once again that this is an additional sum to be allocated to local authorities. Now there is the question of how much money can be received from each particular municipality. Not all local governments can get exactly 11% more money. This is due to the fact that the number of students decreases in many municipalities. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act states that the allowance depends on the number of students. If the number of students decreases, there will also be a reduction in support. If the number of students falls by more than 11%, the total amount may also decrease, despite an increase in the overall level of funding of 11%. I hope that explanation was understandable. If it wasn't, I'm ready to explain it again and again until it's clear. Now I will go to another subject that was touched on by Jüri Ratas and that is not true. The Ministry of Education and Research has not planned to withdraw investment aid of EUR 3.2 million for local authorities in 2013. This grant is available for the current year and will also be available for the following year. It is true that in the amendments to the comprehensive school and upper secondary school law that we are preparing, we consider it reasonable to replace this investment aid with a public investment programme of more than ten times the amount. I would like to ask for further dissemination of information on the basis of the actual situation, not rumors. But now specific answers to specific questions. The first question: 'If teachers' salaries include nearly EUR 4 million, which you say is the result of a drop in the number of students, which places of savings do you have in mind? How many teaching positions and how many schools are going to lose to save EUR 4 million? " You first asked, " What are the places of austerity? ' It is not a question of austerity, but of the formula for financing local authorities, where local authorities do not need to be allocated resources in the past, as the number of students is decreasing. There is no need to look for savings in this regard, because this money is simply left over and will remain this year. This surplus belongs to teachers, and the Ministry of Education and Research plans to channel this money into teachers' salaries. That is why it is not appropriate, but misleading and regrettable that you are asking about teachers' positions and the abolition of schools. The Ministry of Education and Research does not intend to reduce the number of schools under its control. What decisions are taken by local authorities or private schoolchildren, we ask you to contact them on this matter. The second question: 'How much will the 11% increase in teachers' salaries increase the spending of local governments on maintaining schools? " There is no way to imagine that higher salaries for teachers could increase the spending of local governments on maintaining schools. Therefore, forgive me, I cannot answer that question. The increase in teachers' salaries does not entail additional burdens for local authorities, as the state budget has also allocated them the tax resources. Therefore, an increase in wages cannot lead to additional responsibilities for local authorities in my better understanding. The third question: "Do you consider that the minimum wage of EUR 715 and the still lower income than the average salary are sufficient to motivate young people to choose the teaching profession? ' Firstly, the wage rate of EUR 715 is not the strategic objective set by the Ministry of Education and Research. However, in the current economic situation, where the increase in the state budget is approximately 2.2% and the increase in the local government budgets is nearly twice as high, but still only 4.3%, the increase in teacher's wage fund support of 11%, including the lowest minimum rate of 17.6%, is a rather long step in the direction to which the Ministry of Education and Research and the Government of the Republic have decided to move. I hope that this step will encourage young people to choose the teaching profession and we can continue to raise the salaries of teachers in the Riigikogu after the successful processing of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I would like to emphasise as an important step that it is necessary to ensure that the support granted from the state budget goes specifically to teachers. Question 4: "In what year will the salaries of educators reach the average wage level in Estonia? " Good questioners! Teachers' wages and the salaries of educators are two separate things. We have so far concentrated on raising and analysing teachers' salaries, particularly with regard to teachers working in the general education system. There are many more educators. Education staff also include kindergarten teachers and teachers working in higher education institutions. These include all auxiliary staff, guards, cleaners and other people who work in educational establishments. This is why the issue of raising the pay of educators is more complex. As far as I am aware, neither the government coalition nor I personally nor the Ministry of Education and Research have set such a goal of raising the wages of all educational staff to the level of the average wage in Estonia. I also do not know that the opposition has made such proposals. However, we are willing to discuss how the salaries of educators in general could rise. At the moment, I have limited myself to explaining the increase in teachers' salaries. As has already been said, the State grants more than 11% more support for this. We very much hope that all this money will reach the teachers' accounts as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U223	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U224	I have a note for the sake of the verbatim. The rapporteur spoke several times about the kroons. I want him to make it clear that it was still euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U225	The rapporteur corrected himself, he named the crowns, but he corrected and said that he meant the euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U226	Thank you. It seems to me that our cooperation on this issue is indeed extremely fruitful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U227	Can we go to the questions? Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U228	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Education and Science! You have repeatedly said that the local government has used the salaries of teachers for purposes other than paying the salaries of teachers. Mr Minister, list those municipalities where teachers' salaries have been misused. If you don't have that list, maybe you'll apologize to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U229	I'll start by saying'misuse or illegal use'. I have not said that it would have been used illegally, and I have not said that it would have been misused. If you read § 82 (3) of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, you will see that the education allowance is intended to cover the remuneration of teachers, directors and teachers. This is an exhaustive list. The law does not provide for other categories of employees as subjects of public support. The decree of the Government of the Republic, which provides for the use of educational support and the local government support fund, really also allows it to be used to finance the work of support specialists. It is estimated that the wage subsidy for local governments is calculated as the salaries of school leaders (total EUR 14.8 million in the current year) and teachers' salaries (total EUR 149.8 million). Several local authorities have argued that the wage level of the school manager set out in the book model is too low at EUR 910 and that the salaries of school managers are in fact higher. They have admitted that part of this money has been taken from the teachers' payroll fund. The law does not prohibit this, but it is not intended for school leaders but for teachers. Similarly, several local authorities have argued that they have made use of the possibility, by decree of the Government of the Republic, of taking money from the remuneration fund of teachers and school leaders to pay support specialists. At the beginning of this year, we turned to all the local authorities to provide us with information on the extent to which this has been done. Some of the municipalities answered us. I'll give all these answers to the good questioner. Then you can see specific municipalities who have clearly stated that such an opportunity provided by the Government of the Republic's decree has indeed been applied. I beg you not to interrupt me! I'm trying to explain to you calmly what the situation is. My aim has always been to ensure that there is clarity about where the state's money is spent, that this spending is as transparent as possible and that it is in accordance with the law and regulations, and that when we prioritise the increase in teachers' salaries, all the additional resources go to teachers and nowhere else. That is why I believe that these appropriations should be earmarked for the future. Once again, I have not argued that this is a violation of the law. I would like to say that the law, together with the regulation, provides such an opportunity. However, the law exhaustively lists the subjects for whom state support is provided. I hope the explanation was understandable. If it wasn't, we'd have to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U230	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U231	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, When I get there, I'll try to ask you two questions. Even if you have not said that there has been an illegal act, then the media have interpreted your words in this way. For what reason did you not find the opportunity to contradict these media claims, the words that were put in your mouth? But my second question is that. You said that not all municipalities would get a single 11% increase because there are too many teachers in some, but there are few students. What formula is used to calculate this, and is there a line that provides for the concentration of teachers through the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U232	Answer to the first question. I've always rejected the words they put in my mouth, including by the people in this room. It has just been argued that the investment aid will disappear in 2013. I would like to stress once again that I will not disappear. But if people want to put words in their mouths, under the conditions of freedom of expression, they cannot be overly blamed for it either. Unfortunately, it doesn't help understanding each other. As regards the granting of State aid and the accounting basis for it, this basis, which was established in 2008, has been drawn up in cooperation with the local authorities. There's been some improvements. The distribution between local authorities is also currently being discussed on the basis of the 2013 financial accounting model. I find it difficult to predict what positions are being reached today. However, it is quite understandable that under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, this allowance is allocated according to the number of students. If this is done on the basis of the number of students, it means that if there are more children, more money will be allocated, and if there are fewer children, less money will be allocated. It's as simple as that. If there are no children at all, the money will not be allocated because there is no need to teach anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U233	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U234	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from the draft state budget for next year, and I am interested, in particular, in the grants granted by the state budget to local authorities to cover educational expenditure. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. In this year's budget, this grant was EUR 200797158 for municipalities, the following year being EUR 200939108. This means that the increase is 0.07%. I understand from your answers that you think there could be money to raise teachers' salaries, and you can save on it if the students are down. But I can't imagine how one school can save a lot if there's one less child in one class than last year. Can you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U235	I've already explained it to you and I'll explain it again. They are likely to be too complex and too large. In view of the fact that the grant granted from the state budget to private schools located on the territory of the municipality will not be paid through this local government in the coming year, but will be paid directly from the Ministry of Education and Research, this reduces the responsibilities of the local government. Is that understood? The overall reduction is EUR 12.4 million. EUR 12.4 million fewer commitments, but there is just as much money, or 0.1 million more. Thus, local authorities have 0.1 million + 12.4 million, or 12.5 million euros more, on a relatively similar basis. This EUR 12.5 million can be added to the reserve that still remained, i.e. EUR 4.2 million. All this money can be used to raise teachers' salaries. That is the EUR 15.9 million. In addition, the commitment (€5.7 million) to the state budget and the EUR 160 million in the local government support fund have been taken over. The increase may be from EUR 149,8 million to EUR 160 + 5,7 million. You said that if the number of students decreased by one, the costs would not be reduced. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides not for cost coverage but for wage support. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the state does not cover all the costs but supports schoolkeepers in covering the remuneration costs of teachers, directors and teachers. He supports, not covers, the costs, so the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act states and does so again according to the same § 82, based on the number of students. If the number of students is higher, then the support is higher if the number of students is lower, then the support is lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U236	Thank you. Can we move on? Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U237	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to begin by thanking you for your thorough and pedagogical presentation. I didn't understand anything about it, though. Unfortunately, one minute is too short for me to be able to question everything from you, but I do want to clarify one little thing. At the beginning, you said that there were teachers, lecturers and directors. Towards the end of your talk, you said if I was not mistaken that there were also cleaners and wardrobe aunts whose wages did not rise, even though they were part of the educational staff. What, then, happened to their directors and vice presidents, whether or not their pay goes up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U238	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U239	The salary of the head of study and the director is a matter for the employer to decide. In this respect, the State has no obligation to set minimum wages, upper wages or other rates. As the headmaster and the schoolmaster agree, so much will be paid by the director and the headmasters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U240	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Complicated, let's be honest, it's a system. But I'm interested in the subject of teachers. Can you dispel how the continuing training of teachers will be financed in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U241	According to the Adult Education Act, 3% of the wage fund is provided for further training in the state budget. In previous years, this 3% has been allocated to local governments. It is expected that this allocation has reached schools for local authorities and has also been used for further training. Given that it is reasonable and appropriate to use further training aimed at centralized objectives, we have proposed that future funding for the further training of municipal school teachers be provided in such a way that 1% is allocated through the budget of local authorities and 2% through the Ministry of Education and Research. This draft budget has also been handed over to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U242	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U243	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Does the question we are discussing now include upper secondary school? Why would I ask that? There is such information that in the future, perhaps in the coming year, upper secondary school funding will change and directly by the ministry. That is why I would like to clarify how this will take place next year. Does the amount you're talking about concern upper secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U244	Thank you. The question is extremely relevant. I was talking about private schools that are funded directly from the Ministry of Education and Research budget. For the sake of simplicity, I did not stop at the fact that there has also been an increase in the number of students studying in state secondary schools and by this the obligation of local authorities to provide general secondary education has diminished. Before 2012, there were state secondary schools in Estonia, which were maintained in full from the state budget in terms of both economic costs and teachers' salaries. The law did not provide for a settlement obligation for local governments when students living in their administrative territory entered a state secondary school. The draft law on basic school and upper secondary school that is being prepared does not intend to change this procedure. Perhaps in the coming year, children who are going to study in state secondary schools will study there at the expense of the state and local governments will not have any extra costs in this regard. There is one exception. In 2010, a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Education and Research and the City of Viljandi. In connection with the establishment of Viljandi State Gymnasium, Viljandi City has committed itself to providing additional support to children studying at the state gymnasium from the local government budget. We are negotiating with the city of Viljandi how to proceed with this agreement. There is a written commitment. However, with regard to the general ideology that state gymnasiums should not be covered by the local government, the Ministry of Education and Research is prepared to review this written agreement. In principle, this trend should continue in the main county centres for the establishment of state secondary schools. There are people interested at the local government level. In all these cases, the financing of children's studies in state secondary schools and the maintenance of these schools will be completely transferred to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U245	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U246	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! I remember one of your comments or answers that you gave, that you didn't shut schools down, that is, schoolkeepers, towns and municipalities do it, that is, you're just less and less funding, and that these schools are finally going to go to their own demise. Here's exactly the same thing as strangling: I didn't kill the person, he couldn't breathe anymore. But I'm gonna ask you about the class manager's bonus. From the following year, the work of a class manager will be counted as a teacher's duty, i.e. the premium paid for it will be abolished. This means that the teacher, who currently has a minimum wage of EUR 644 and receives an additional salary of EUR 64 will earn EUR 715 per month instead of EUR 710 from next year. 11% wage increases are allowed, the workload of the teacher doesn't change, so far he got 710 euros, now he's getting 715. Is that a 11% raise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U247	Good public representative! If you really think about schools and their fate, then, I think, we all come to the same conclusion that schools are closed because there are no children. The problem is unborn children. We can discuss how much our personal contribution could be to the production or reproduction of these children, but we can hardly get very far on this road. Local authorities make reasonable decisions on the basis of the law. If there really are no children, then it does not make sense to support the school. If there are fewer children, the costs will be lower, and if there are more children, the costs will be higher and public support will increase in the same way. It's all in the basic school and upper secondary school law. Nothing new country has done here. Please read the basic school and upper secondary school law again! The only basis for granting the grant is the number of school pupils. This is an exhaustive list. Now for the class manager's bonus. I don't know where you're gonna find that the class manager's bonus is no longer in 2013. I'm having a hard time understanding you. I assure you that the class manager's premium will be maintained in 2013, at least until the Riigikogu has amended the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The premium for a class manager is provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Government of the Republic are appointed on the basis of the Constitution and consequently for the implementation of the laws issued. That is also what we intend to do with the class manager's premium. If the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act are approved by the Riigikogu, since the entry into force of the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the head of class may indeed be included in the teacher's basic salary, which I consider reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U248	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U249	Thank you. I will continue at the same time as I did, and I will talk about other issues that have been dealt with earlier. It was a story of Soviet experience. Turns out our teachers are very experienced and maybe old people. They probably remember that in 1974 they talked about a big raise, which ended with the fact that when the singing teacher went for the salary, it turned out that he would receive half as much as he was now working in circles. In this sense, it is important to take down fears and show that there will be no such thing that the same work will be called something else and people will be paid less. That fear is great. The principal of a school in Tartu told me: 'I am getting less pay than the new year for a Methodist, because we must guarantee minimum wages, but we have serious problems with the others. 'That's what the headmaster says, Director. So the problem is in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U250	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U251	Good people! I guess there's a lot of fear in here. In a regrettable way, too, it is true that many fears have been made worse for political reasons than there really is a reason. I have denied two misinformations in this Chamber today. First of all, the fear that has been spread from this hall that investment support will be lost. Well, don't disappear! Just in answer to Mr Tobal's question, I confirmed that the class manager's premium will not disappear. If we discuss this calmly and do not increase our fears in this Chamber, I think there will be less of these fears. Without any leverage, there's a lot of fear. As for the fact that the teacher's work is called something else, teachers are forced to supervise circles, etc., here too, I think, fear has big eyes. In the end, I confirm what I can tell you: local authorities will receive 11% more money to raise teachers' salaries. If all this money goes to teachers, the teacher's average salary will rise in Estonia by at least 11%. If this money is not used for other purposes, the salary will rise even more. I call on you to make a joint effort to ensure that all the money you approve in the state budget reaches the teachers. In this regard, problems arise, such as the remuneration of support professionals, which should be discussed and regularised by the legislator, together with the additional tools that I wish you success in finding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U252	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! There have already been wider questions, I ask you specifically: if in any school, whatever the name of this school, the school is paid the salary of the logo beet allocated from the state, is this, in your opinion, a non-targeted use of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U253	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U254	What can I say? I can say what the law says. The Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act states that the State supports the payment of the costs related to the remuneration of teachers, directors and teachers. Period. I understand that under existing laws and regulations, logo beets are not teachers, directors or teachers. I admit that the Government of the Republic's decree also allows this money to be used for the remuneration of support specialists during the current year. However, there is no limit to who are the support specialists. This is why it is regrettable that there is a real risk of increasing teachers' salaries that we are carrying water with a sieve, because the extra money that is allocated to teachers' salaries does not actually reach the teachers. I am far from questioning the need for support specialists, but I would stress that, under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, ensuring the service of support specialists is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper and, under § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, it must also cover the costs associated with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U255	Mr President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As a former head of local government, I am terribly frustrated and offended that local authorities are constantly accused of not having enough pay for teachers. I have dealt with this problem in depth and I am well aware of it all. I don't know local governments who would have used teachers' salaries to repair rooftops or something like that. Yes, teachers' salaries have been used to pay salaries to support specialists, but there was an agreement between the Minister of Regional Affairs and the Municipalities' Cooperation Council. To accuse local authorities of not having enough teachers' salaries is, in my opinion, wrong. In my opinion, the Minister should dismiss this charge. The other thing that really bothers me is that teachers and other people who give lessons are now being opposed. These are support specialists, kindergarten teachers and interest school teachers. We have only focused on one group that fits under the name 'teachers', and we are thus trying to fulfil the IRL's election promise to raise teachers' salaries by 20% or more. The Minister said that not all municipalities receive an increase in wages of 11%, as the number of students decreases. Wage growth of 11% may occur only in large cities, where the number of students has not fallen. We will see how many percent of the higher pay will start to become teachers in smaller municipalities, where, unfortunately, the number of students has decreased. To the question of how much teachers will actually get paid in the new year, we can come back at the end of January or February. Then the moment of truth is at hand, and we can tell you how much a particular teacher actually gained from one school or another. I am saddened that those teachers who have completed further training and have received additional training, both senior teachers and methodological teachers, will probably not receive a minimum wage increase from the new year, because the salary is simply not enough. It is particularly difficult for schools that do not have junior teachers who are highly qualified teachers, since the grade of junior teachers is above all increased. The minister could be interested in how municipalities can raise the salaries of kindergarten teachers and teachers of interest. I remember the time when there was a program under which the state gave extra money to kindergarten teachers to keep their pay at the same level as the minimum wage for junior teachers. I think that there are very few municipalities that can maintain this level across Estonia now. Are there any of them because this extra national money has been taken away? I do not understand if everything is reduced only to the fact that the local authorities are paying for it, because that is their job. The income base of the local government is secured primarily by the Government of the Republic. If there is no recovery of the income tax received by the municipalities or the road money and, as we know, 15 municipalities will lose the tax on the land they own next year, I ask where the money comes from to the local government. I think that the confrontation between the local government and the state should be stopped and, together, solutions should be found so that teachers' pay can actually rise next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U256	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U257	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Dear Minister for Education and Science, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, the Minister spoke here about the amounts that should ensure an increase in teachers' pay in 2013. I have followed very closely the statements made by the Minister of Education and Research on television as well as at Tartu meetings and elsewhere. Unfortunately, these figures have not always been exactly the same. Perhaps, as the Minister emphasised here today, there have been different interpretations, perhaps people have simply misunderstood, but I dare say that the reason has not been that one person or another wants to see the bill differently for political reasons. However, today's debate here has been useful. I hope to be wider, but to me personally, I'm sure. Finally, I understood what the Minister of Education and Science was based on. This is a fundamentally different education policy approach for teachers. At least in the last ten years, but perhaps longer, it has been based on the responsibility of the state for wages and wage increases, as the state ensures a level playing field for qualified teachers through its partners, public universities, and also provides adequate means of payment. Speaking of wage increases, in order to ensure good teachers everywhere in Estonia, the state has raised minimum rates. Negotiations have always taken place at the level of the minimum rates. Of course, this has been supplemented by a so-called looseness or a certain percentage by which the local government and the school have been able to raise wages or supplement the wage increase. Yeah, it's gone for extras. As the Minister said here today, on many occasions the remuneration granted to the head of school has not been high enough or the local government has wished to clarify it. However, the minimum has been what has been guaranteed everywhere. These ministerial statements, which may have been misinterpreted in the media again, that if the average standard of living in one municipality or another is low, the teacher's salary may also be lower, in principle means abandoning the starting point which has so far been that the minimum standard must be guaranteed everywhere in Estonia. The second thing the Minister emphasised today was that it is only support. This is basically a new concept, because support can eventually be moral, it can be relatively small. It's a retreat. Yeah, right now we're handing it all over to the local government, maybe a little bit more, a year or a half more, but there's already a problem with the local government and the director if he doesn't have proper teachers or he can't guarantee the teachers' pay increase. The Minister certainly knows that such a decision has already been made in the field of education. A few years ago, interest education was allocated from the state fund, handed over to local authorities and told that the state would continue to support them, but there is money here and that is now their own responsibility. How much do we actually remember about the foundations, coefficients and product of the funding of recreational education in various hobbies? The state washed its hands of this and there is currently no general funding for recreational education. Many music schools at local level are in a very poor position. Now we are saying that public support should come back in order, for example, to keep music schools at the current level in the future. What is the problem with this support and the fact that in future there will be only one minimum threshold imposed by the State? These are not political delusions, they are revealed in the development plan of the Ministry of Education and Research, the starting points of the Ministry and the Minister's various statements, and all of this is said to be in the future draft law on basic school and upper secondary school. This is exactly what it is: the work of a class manager goes into general working hours, the investment component is covered by the general funding of education, and the remuneration of support professionals is part of the overall component and one minimum level is set. They're not political delusions. Here, too, it has repeatedly been said that these are future amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which are being made to increase the teachers' payroll. What are the concerns of 2013? Teachers still have no confidence. The payroll may even increase, but the pay of teachers will depend on the number of students. If there is a drop in the number of students in the region and the minimum level is set at only EUR 715 plus the pay rates of the senior teacher and the Methodist on the basis of 2012, for example, is the senior teacher actually paid out even at this year's rate? Is there enough money in the budget for his class manager to be paid out to the extent that he has been so far? We did not actually get an answer to that today. The minister says yes, the money is there. We are processing the 2013 budget in the Riigikogu today, we are still processing it for quite several days, hopefully a few more weeks, but we have not seen the amounts in the 2013 budget in the light of the Minister's statement today either. Perhaps it is possible to send some more memos to members of the Riigikogu. At least the Minister of Finance has not answered these questions in this way. Secondly, teachers ask that if the salary increase remains dependent only on the local government, who will eventually give them confidence. If there is one school, one mayor and one director, what are the choices of this teacher? You are certainly aware that very many forums speak of so-called coercive teachers. In the case of minimum rates, the teacher had rights because these minimum rates were legally guaranteed. But if he doesn't have such a back, and the only negotiations are between him and the headmaster and the mayor, then what? I'm sure you're familiar with what's happened to kindergarten teachers' salaries, where there are differences, let's say, considerable. Does the Minister really want the same very big pay gap to reach school? I hope not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U258	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U259	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You know, the two most important people in every person's life are the first teacher and the last doctor. Teacher, this is the salt of the earth. He's always been respected. As far as I am concerned, teachers have been given free trees during any regime, but all kinds of other advantages. When the teacher talks, everyone listens. Even now, I listened to a presentation by a teacher, professor, and academician. That was instructive. It was presented by instilling a feeling like opening a skull box and putting those words in it. I remembered my period of study. Then teachers spoke on topics such as scientific communism and dialectical materialism. Even then, they spoke with quite conviction, and then they remembered one thing and another. After that, however, it became clear that things were not quite the case. But I guess that's something to understand. Teachers, including professors and academics, often speak as the party and government command, but often they also teach us the things we need. At school, we were taught sinuses and tangens. I've never been hit by a tangent in my life on the street. If he had met me, I wouldn't have recognized him, he wouldn't have met me either, because we rarely met in school. But I guess all of this needed to be learned, too, because it's brain training. You know, everything the teacher does, he's still doing for the student. It is a great pity that we once had to endure the teachers' invasion of Toompea Castle here, that we have been talking for too long about the rise in teachers' salaries, that the discussion is still going on and that this discussion is taking place here and now. In my opinion, the ruling coalition should have long been able to raise the pay of teachers to the level required by teacher status. Because there's a great deal to depend on a teacher. Makes very careful when the remote is told that it is not quite clear whether this money is going to get to the right place, and suddenly the local government puts it somewhere else. I understand, of course, they mean the bad central government, yes. But they're pointing the finger at everyone. When we are told that there are some malicious logo beets that can accidentally eat this money, it means that the government coalition itself is not quite sure about its own affairs. It is also said that there are directors and lecturers, for whom it is not clear what will happen to them. At all, when people say that all of this is an employer's thing, you know, it really reminds me of how after the medical strike, it was decided how to change their salaries. This time, the tank employer was also rejected. The subject is interesting. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U260	You have this opportunity. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U261	Thank you. Then it's good to blame the employer for giving the money, but not enough for all the employees. Now it's said that maybe God will give you less babies, then you'll spend less money. There are fewer babies. But who is to blame for having fewer children? You know, a person is a mammal like any other. Humans are like animals, they're born when there's good conditions. In Haabersti, which I represent here in the Riigikogu, there are six municipal schools and one private school. There are many children there, and these children often go to the zoo. There are animals like meerkats in the zoo. They were brought there several years ago. They're South American rodents that are very funny to look at. Six of them were brought there. Haaberst's children, who go to the youth center, took up the meerkats. They began to collect money, and the meerkats could eat better. And what did the meerkats do? They began to reproduce. There were six at first, but after a year there were 26. The zoo also had such wonderful events as meerkat days. The children of the youth centre and the employees of the district government came. I was the district manager at the time, and I went a few times on meerkat day. Then the children were told that they were so good and that they collected money, that the meerkats could now eat well, that they were warm and enjoyable, and that the children should see how many of them there are. The devil's meerkat listened attentively to what the district elder said, and climbed on to the other; he immediately began to show the children how it was done. It was quite a shame to watch. I stood in the way of not looking at the babies. But that's the way it is. You know, if we raise all the excises and if we can't pay the electricity bills, then the darkness that comes will not increase the birth rate. Still, a high standard of living is what makes a person happy and happy and then comes to love. Of course, the island of Tammsa was right to work and work hard, but you must also taste the fruits of your work. You know, good friends, I remember my teachers who taught me good and smart things. I remember my first teacher. Of course he's long gone. But I also remember my faculty at the university. If you ever meet your old teacher on the street or at the store or somewhere else, ask him, "Teacher, how do you live? How are you? " He, a modest man as he is, will certainly answer you, " Thank you for asking! There's nothing wrong with me. " They are modest people. We here must take care of the teachers who have once done their best to make sure that we can sit here today and pay them our debt. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U262	Thank you. Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U263	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister's presentation and the answers to our questions made me think about this more broadly. It was mainly the need to close schools and the debate around this issue that led to thinking. We are constantly hearing representatives of the government coalition from this remote area, as well as the Minister, talking about the absence of children and therefore the need to shut down schools, no patients, and that is why we need to lose pharmacies and family doctors in the country and close some county hospitals. We hear that there are no passengers on the bus, so we need to close the bus routes, especially in the countryside. We hear that there are no customers available for land post offices, that's why these post offices need to be closed. I was sitting here thinking that all of this was actually a consequence. It's a consequence when you have to close the school. This is the result of closing a pharmacy or family doctor's station or closing a county hospital, etc. In fact, it is not the causes that are addressed, but only the consequences. Why aren't there kids? Why is there no bus drivers in the country? Why do land post offices no longer have customers, or why do there are no more patients in the country who can be treated by family doctors? Or more broadly: what has the Government of the Republic done in the last three or four years to keep people on the ground so that people remain in Estonia at all? In my opinion, issue 1 is emigration. First they come out of the country, then they come to Tallinn, then they cross the border to Finland and finally go further. In fact, the issues of job shortages, low wages and high home costs are important. It is said here that wages will increase by 4.4% on average next year in the government sector. We know very well what has recently happened to home expenses that have happened at food prices. In the last few years, home costs have increased by 20%, food costs by 21%, wages by an average of 4.4%, and this 4.4% increase is certainly not all. Speaking of teachers' salaries, the Minister didn't convince me today. I rather believe in the calculations made by the analysts of the Estonian Association of Cities and the representatives of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and local governments, who each day actually deal with the issues of paying salaries to teachers. It seems to me that the promise to raise the salaries of teachers by 11% is another lie of this government and actually means hanging local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U264	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U265	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I have one table where the funding lines that we are discussing here all the time have been broken down one by one. But I left it on my desk on purpose. The various parties have expressed their views. There is no need to repeat everything we have heard to comment. It will not help if we start looking for someone who should read morality to whom. We heard from the minister that there's been some scary talk going on in this hall. We could answer by saying that there were clues to one or the other's competence or expressed an opinion in style that one person has already answered this question very accurately somewhere. Such speeches actually sounded from both sides. But if I went on in this style, it wouldn't do any good. You also complained that we were going far from education and that we were going to politicize. I fully agree with this reproach. I believe that everyone in this Chamber, wherever they sit right now, is interested in our educational life going towards life and not death. But in my opinion, politicisation is precisely that the government has decided to declare a very concrete promise that teachers' salaries will rise by at least 11%, and this is said even if the circumstances do not provide proof. Of course, it can be proved with elegant theorems and talked about the ideal model where something like this could be possible. Unfortunately, that is not the case in real life. Let us look at the situation in society at large. It is not the task of the Riigikogu, in particular, to check the invoice or lines in one law or another, or to lay down any rules. The difference between law and legislation is that the latter is aimed at the harmonious, comprehensive and balanced development of society, not at resolving one particular issue, as we often see in the case of laws. Right now, we're trying to make a nicer soup on one side of the pot. This has so far proved to be a relatively barren undertaking. The previous composition of the Riigikogu began with the talk of administrative reform. Then it failed or couldn't do it, or it didn't really start. Then, under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, administrative reform began. Well, according to the peasant's wisdom, it's a plow in front of a horse. Even now it tends to be that one side makes promises, but then it says that municipalities must now do this, the other, the third, the fourth and the fifth. I understand Tarmo Tamme emotionally, it's still getting in the collar for the local governments. The biggest problems in Estonia are that local governments do not have sufficient resources to carry out these tasks in a high-quality manner and are independent of the central authority. It therefore seems a little wicked when it is said that fears are not justified. You know, these fears are very well founded, this coalition and the government have given quite a lot of reason. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U266	I remember when the same government was in trouble to adopt a law promoting youth work and sports, but there was no money in the budget. It was then suggested that it should not be budgeted, but that the municipalities should be given the right to deal with it more. It was the same coalition that did this great thing. I would like to return to the fact that, in theory, it is possible to do with this money exactly as the Minister promises. I think it's theoretically possible. Only all the questions that have already been asked are left unanswered. If the money is given by the number of students and if there are 24 students instead, let's say 18 students, what does that mean? So we're gonna pay the Honourer 25% less, and let's say that's a raise, or what's the logic? Taking one thing at the expense of another is inevitable for this powerful new wage increase. And they take it pretty bad. Do we preach, for example, the work of semi-social circles in music teaching or sports? It's a real threat, because where else do you take the money from? The fact that further training, which has been considered extremely important, gets banged and starts squealing is also a reality. There were some Soviet-era memories. I see us trying hard to copy the experiences of the day, especially in these very drafts. Years ago, it was asked how a Soviet person could be identified, for example, in the centre of Stockholm, even though he could be well dressed. Mostly by shoes. If someone had older shoes and had not been cared for, then he was probably not from Sweden. The Soviet era was built, but was not maintained or improved. The same thing that a person goes to college but lacks further training will continue to live in our educational life. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that education can be improved. I believe that the idea of this draft is also to improve the well-being of teachers, and I am convinced that if the government had not put the atra in front of the horse, it would not have been encased with a propagandaist of 11%, and it would not have had to roll failures on the authorities, it would be much more productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U267	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U268	Thank you. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U269	Good President! Dear listeners, I will start with the speech by Mailis Reps. It seemed to me that his interpretation went a little bit out of the way, although there is a great deal of justification for where we are going with our education arrangements, particularly as regards basic education in municipal schools. I would like to state clearly two points of view and reject the speculative opinion that sounded in this presentation. First of all, I understood that the Ministry of Education and Research and I, just as I was accused of not even providing minimum rates for all local authorities in the future. There is no such intention! We have repeatedly stressed that the estimated salary for a teacher's position should be 20% higher than the minimum set, but in any case minimum or minimum rates should be guaranteed. I think it's gonna be that way. There is no point in giving people a signal from this Riigikogu panel, as if they are expected to be in a situation where even at the minimum wage cannot be paid out, because the bad state has taken away the money and is not giving it back. Secondly, I realized that Mailis Reps saw some cardinal change in the education policy that the Ministry of Education and Research was carrying out in supporting municipal schools. There's no such thing! This wording of the basic school and upper secondary school law was written long before I became my minister and is likely to remain there for a long time after the minister changes. We haven't made any changes. I would like to stress once again that executive power cannot do anything other than what is required by law. The law states that the state budget provides for support. The word'support' is written there. I have not made it up; I have not changed the previous ideology of spending or support, but it has always been in law. Such a speculative debate will not, in my view, help us further, either by understanding each other or by improving the situation of our teachers. Aadu Black also said twice here that further training would be abolished. Nobody loses additional training. Its volume, I dare say, is increasing rather than shrinking. The amount on which budget line there are additional training and how this funding is organised, the fact that money does not go directly to school in total, but some of it is distributed centrally, does not mean that this money is not foreseen. No one plans to lose further training; further training will remain in its former capacity. Hopefully, I can also confirm that all the resources foreseen will reach where they have to go, perhaps to organise further teacher training. These three misleading, speculative positions I was happy to disprove. You've just invited me to disprove my misconceptions. I was happy to do it now. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U270	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the negotiations. There's no more calls. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U271	Let's move on to the next question. It is number 223 and was presented by members of the Riigikogu Aadu Must, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassiliev, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korb, Karel Rüütli, Rein Randver, Jaan Õunapuu, Kalvi Tul, Indrek Saar and Inara Luigas on 14 November 2012. The inquiry is about the future of veterinary training at the Estonian University of Life Sciences. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, responds to the inquiry. I ask Aadu Must, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I don't think there's much to talk about. At least it makes no sense to read the whole text of the inquiry, because it is a problem that has been said quite a lot in the press. Let me make this brief. The vet faculty of the University of Tartu is concerned about its future. It is claimed that money is not enough to keep up with the requirements of time and to modernise the study to the extent that it guarantees a positive accreditation for the upcoming accreditation. The rest is mostly emotional. It is claimed that the University of Earth has no resources of its own. It is claimed that this is a chicken in peasant languages, which lays eggs and therefore should not be made into soup. It is also claimed that sometimes our higher education landscape really needs extraordinary resources, even stagnation or maintaining old levels can cause us to become more and more behind others. So you have to run really fast. In this regard, the questioners have asked four questions, which are unlikely to be read out, because they will be discussed in the course of the answer. On the subject of the previous issue, I add that squeaking and losing are two completely different things. If we put words in each other's mouths, let us not misinterpret them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U273	Thank you. Please ask the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo of the Riigikogu to answer his questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U274	President-in-Office of the Council. Good listeners! Veterinarian training is indeed extremely expensive. This is also the reason why in developed countries, one vet faculty per ten million inhabitants has been found necessary. There are much less than ten million inhabitants in Estonia, and the population of the three Baltic States does not reach 10 million. Nevertheless, we have been making efforts for decades to maintain and develop veterinary training, including by investing more than EUR 16 million in rural university infrastructure from various sources. As a result, Estonia is one of the few countries in Central and Eastern Europe who have been able to develop the conditions for this study and have received international accreditation. From this basis, it is possible, in my better understanding, to develop veterinary training in international cooperation in a sustainable manner, ensuring both national footage in the Republic of Estonia and veterinary services prepared in international cooperation for neighbouring countries or countries further away. Now I will answer specific questions. The first question: 'For what reasons was the Estonian University of Life Sciences refused to allocate additional funding for veterinary training? In 2013 the Estonian University of Life Sciences received an additional amount of EUR 371129 in the state budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, of which EUR 51129 was allocated for the practical training of veterinary students and EUR 320000 for the bank loan for the construction of the Märja cattle table. These additional resources are important for the development of a relatively small specialty. As a result of the higher education reform, funding for higher education institutions will increase by more than 10 million euros in the 2013 state budget. An important part of this money goes to the Estonian University of Life Sciences. We hope that the Estonian University of Life Sciences, giving priority to veterinary training, considers that it is justified to allocate these additional resources to veterinary training. Question 2: "How does the Ministry of Education and Research see the future of veterinary training in Estonia? ' As has already been said, veterinary training is expensive and it is more expensive than ordering this study from abroad to meet the needs of the Estonian market. Given the investments made and our competence, together with the Estonian University of Life Sciences, we have considered it possible to take veterinary education on a strong international basis, offering instruction in English in parallel with Estonian language, based on the international price level of this study, thus finding additional money to support the clinical base and, above all, to cover the costs associated with the large animal clinic. I am convinced that if the Ministry and the University of Life Sciences set priorities in this way, it will continue to enable veterinary training to be organised and done at a level consistent with international standards, alongside other specialties in Estonia. Question 3: "How do you assess the impact of this problem on the reputation of Estonia as an international educational centre? " I am convinced that the curriculum of veterinary education in English improves Estonia's international reputation in the field of higher education. Internships have shown that we have been able to achieve this in teaching Finnish students. I have no doubt that opening up the market to students from other countries will rather improve Estonia's international reputation and cause more problems, as could be understood from the subtext of the questioners. Question 4: "Why has the Ministry of Education and Research not yet solved the problem of under-funding veterinary training? ' As has already been said, over the years the Ministry of Education and Research has devoted an extremely large amount of additional resources to veterinary training. We very much hope that the University of Life Sciences will also set its internal priorities and, at the expense of teaching these specialties, which are taught in dozens of higher education institutions in Estonia, will pay more attention to veterinary training. International cooperation, setting the right priorities and continuing the current state support in the future are, in my opinion, sufficient guarantees that the training of veterinary surgeons in the Republic of Estonia with regard to international quality will continue. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U275	Minister, thank you. You have a few questions. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your explanation was very sympathetic, precisely in the sense that alternatives were made very clear. Let me get this straight: you are continuing this, I say again, the most sympathetic idea that the so-called service area of our veterinary faculty could be Scandinavia, in addition to the Baltic States, and in this case there is no need to make a choice: is there an endless horror or a horrible ending? It has been stressed that if we try to keep veterinary medicine alive artificially, it could damage other professions. But now I've gone to too many things. The question was this: is the solution an 'additional' Scandinavian occupation of the educational market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U277	First of all, it is certainly not the Scandinavian market alone. Veterinarian training, as has already been said, is costly and the development of quality here is quite an investment. I see room for growth, especially in the Baltics, although it must be said that Latvia and Lithuania are also making desperate efforts to launch internationally accredited veterinary training. But I want to be quite frank and say that we are actually talking about international division of labour in higher education. If we want to be taken seriously internationally in promoting higher education, we must realise that if we make it a priority and want to teach students from neighbouring countries, we must be prepared to give up teaching some specializations in the Republic of Estonia so that this training takes place in some of our neighbouring countries. The extent to which we are actually prepared to give up a specialty is a question of its own. I believe that when this topic comes on the agenda, we will be able to see very heated debates here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U278	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U279	Thank you. Good minister! Thank you very much for this very balanced and analytical report. I'm Chairman of the Board of the Alumni Council of the University of Life Sciences. I have been approached over the last few months by many people who are equally concerned about the fate of veterinary training. I spoke to the field university faculty today. They clearly argue that, in terms of higher education reform, their area is in an unequal situation. Can you tell the 220 students who signed this letter to the Rector and also to the lecturers that the Ministry considers this subject important and that veterinary education does not disappear from Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U280	The final confirmation of all matters will certainly be obtained from the church, not from this Riigikogu hall. Times and circumstances change, and giving final solutions forever is almost impossible. However, such a decision that there should be a veterinary education in Estonia in the future and that there should also be sustainable solutions in international cooperation. Understanding between the University of Life Sciences and the Ministry of Education and Research is good enough to claim it. I want to say one thing very clearly. We have to make choices, even the University of Life Sciences has to make choices. A small review should be carried out among all the disciplines that have been further, further and further taught in recent years. Once this review has been carried out, it will appear that the savings achieved can support the priorities. That's exactly what we have to do. It certainly does not discriminate against the University of Earth. Such clear priorities must be set by all Estonian universities if they want to provide internationally competitive education. As I have already said, it may be necessary to decide in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that in some areas higher education needs to be stopped. Nothing can be done, 1.3 million cannot cover the entire spectrum. I think that a country as small as Estonia has even performed very well. I don't know any other country so small that could cover such a wide spectrum in higher education, in the native language. Iceland, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, Brunei, who are many times richer than us, offer several dozens of narrower spectrum in higher education. It's a harsh truth, unfortunately. But I'll come back to the vet. We have such a long historical tradition, we have a renome. Most educated people in Estonia know what time it was when a veterinary institute was established in Estonia in the middle of the 19th century, and what was the significance of the emergence of this institute for the entire veterinary profession in Imperial Russia. I think the reason is not that no one would want to or would take a hand, rather it is because the problem is really complicated. We've taken on a task that goes ten times over our weight in gross lines, but if we've decided so, let's do it. But know there's a price. This price may have to be paid in some ways when making other decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U281	Colleagues Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U282	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! This debate on the financing of veterinary training has been going on for quite a long time. One of the problems that you certainly know and which is the subject of a dispute between the Ministry of Education and Research and the University of Life Sciences is who, and to what extent, should also support the clinic. If, as a result of this very long and big debate, we have agreed between the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Insurance Fund and the University of Tartu Hospital, there is no agreement on the extent to which the 24-hour emergency clinic is supported. What is your position on how to proceed with the financing of this clinic so that the 24-hour emergency clinic stays in veterinary training?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U283	The question is to what extent do we need this constant surveillance in Estonia for so-called agricultural purposes or for other, private-interest purposes, especially in the large animal clinic. The maintenance of small animal clinics on a commercial basis is more or less organised, but it is problematic to cover the costs of a large animal clinic. I am not convinced that taking the full amount of education bread bag for all these costs would be a sensible solution. Let us be realistic: in today's agricultural production, treating large animals in certain critical situations is not economically meaningful. Therefore, rather than paying quite high medical fees to heal some productive animals in the private sector, a second solution is usually found, unfortunately not to treat the animal, but rather to find an economically reasonable end to the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U284	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U285	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You said there was an urgent need for an audit. In part, you already answered my question, but still, if you sum up, what directions do you necessarily need to be reviewed? There may already be little time for that. As far as I can tell, you also believe that this issue is topical and it is not pragmatic to delay this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U286	If I understood this question correctly, I would say that I had in mind an audit on study programmes in various higher education institutions. We've had a pretty open conversation with the University of Earth about economics and business education. It is offered in a large number of higher education institutions. The University of Life Sciences has said that they teach agricultural sciences specifically in this regard. The real life may be a little more prosthetic. At least when you look at the subject of Bachelor's thesis, you have to admit that understanding agricultural sciences is quite broad-based. I think there is plenty of room for cooperation in teaching environmental sciences at the University of Tartu, Estonian University of Life Sciences and Tallinn University of Technology. There are other overlapping areas where specialisation would release resources for areas that no one else in Estonia deals with. It should even be said that no one else in the world is involved, because it is probably never possible to find veterinary education in Estonian from anywhere other than a country university. But, of course, I know that making these decisions in universities is not easy. I would not like to start putting time pressure on universities to do so within a month or two or a year. But in any case, we need to move in this direction, because the issue of underfunding is not exclusively raised by veterinarians; the Ministry of Education and Research has tens of applications to stop underfunding. Veterinary is just one area that has been politically capable enough to bring this issue into the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U287	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U288	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Human medicine and veterinary medicine are in many ways intertwined or similar. As stated in the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, many young doctors leave after graduation, but several European hospitals would be willing to pay for their studies here because it is so much cheaper than elsewhere in Europe. I believe that it is far cheaper for us to study veterinary medicine than elsewhere. If, for example, it was taught in English, then suddenly it would be Eesti Nokia. These professionals could be increasingly trained and, if there is a need for veterinarians elsewhere in Europe or even in Australia, let them simply pay for this training. Have such projects been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U289	Thanks for asking. As for Estonia's Nokia, if you look at the fate of Finland's Nokia, you might be able to take the winds out of the search for Estonia's Nokia. But I was trying to tell you that paid English tuition could be an economically reasonable way forward in veterinary training. This would certainly not only have a material dimension, but would also have its own academic dimension. This would increase our international visibility and reach. I think it would also improve the prospects for Estonian higher education in general. However, it must be acknowledged that the full payment of this training, 100% commercialisation, is still quite questionable. Although there is theoretically a world-wide demand for fiscal power, it is not easy to reach all those people who are far from Estonia. So, yes, international cooperation and paid-for English learning in the amount that is objectively and with this infrastructure possible is one solution. That's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U290	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U291	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I wasn't gonna ask you a question. But since you gave an inflammatory speech on education in English, I, as another speaker of the great language, wonder if you have thought of such a thing in the direction of the Russian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U292	Even though Russian is the language of a large nation and there are quite a few Russians in the world, the ability of the Russian language to compete with English on the international training market is still modest. Considerable tax-intensive demand for a Russian-language curriculum has been assessed more modestly, not only in the Ministry but also in the University of Life Sciences. I think there is no need to forget this issue. Knowing that at least the older generation of lecturers can speak this language, it is not insurmountable in linguistic terms either, but the practical conclusions that I have discussed with the Rector have remained where they are: English is currently more of a lingua franca than Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U293	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I don't see any negotiating requests. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U294	Let's move on to the next question. It's the seventh question, and it's number 242. The inquiry has been made by Mailis Reps, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toom, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Esemaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhin. The inquiry was submitted on the 15th day of November. a. The information provided is about learning opportunities for children with special educational needs. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, responds to the inquiry. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Mailis Reps, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U295	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Mr Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! As I said today, by introducing the first question on education, we have a number of issues under discussion in this area. We have now come to teaching children with special educational needs. The previous Riigikogu discussed the basic school and upper secondary school law for almost three years. One of the most important changes was that children with special needs were allowed to study at school or, more specifically, this possibility was improved. It was emphasized that the parent chooses the school in which he or she wishes to put his or her child to study, regardless of the child's special needs. Thus, students with special educational needs are no longer treated as pupils in special schools, but as pupils who need special training, regardless of school. All students, including students with special educational needs, had the right to study with the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, especially at the school of their place of residence. There was no common definition of the concept of'special educational needs' until the adoption of the new basic school and upper secondary school law. The Minister also knows that the Riigikogu had quite long and thorough disputes about what this concept means, what its purpose is, and to what extent children with special needs can be adequately supported in the school of their place of residence. Unlike other students in the same class, children with special educational needs also require different work programmes or teaching arrangements for different reasons. As a result, a number of so-called small classes and even smaller classes, as well as individual training, were created. It is therefore important that each school has a range of support services. Moreover, the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act introduced the position of a social pedagogy in addition to a logopaedic, psychologist and special education teacher, and this is a new requirement for schools at the level of the Act. This was added precisely because after discussions in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and in the Committee on Culture were found, looking at social problems in society, that without additional support, students and teachers may find it very difficult to devote themselves fully to teaching. It was agreed that schools should be able to use the help of specialists to identify, explain and organise the special educational needs of the student. Today, too, there has been talk about how this law has been applied. In the 2012 negotiations on funding with local governments, it was found in connection with the Riigikogu debates that the state also finances or supports support services through the educational provision. It was written into an agreement between local governments and the state. We are interested in how the Ministry of Education and Research currently assesses the learning opportunities of children with special educational needs and how the schools of the place of residence have been able to meet this requirement. After all, EHIS data includes specific educational needs, corresponding classes and support structures. We are certainly also interested in the 2013 and 2014 plans for support services, whether they will be specified and whether all of this will be rewritten into the cooperation agreement between local authorities and the state. There is a little ambiguity in the way it sounded here today. In these schools, which already deal with children with special educational needs and which have more than one or two small classes, there is a serious question of how this work will be financed. At present, it is financed not by a mandatory 20 or 30 hours, but only by eight hours. This has created great difficulties for schools dealing with children with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U296	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo of the Riigikogu to answer his questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U297	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners! We are now talking about learning opportunities for children with special educational needs. I do not know to what extent everyone in this Chamber is aware of the number of students we are talking about in this context. According to the educational information system, special educational needs have been recorded for some 24000 pupils, but we have about 140,000 students in total. So statistically, there's one in six or seven students with special needs. This in turn means that children with special educational needs are present in all Estonian schools. Skills to cope with special educational needs cannot therefore be limited to a few qualified professionals, but must be integrated into the day-to-day learning process. Special educational needs are nothing special in the sense that they only occur under special conditions in special schools and special classes, but students with special educational needs are present in all classes. Answers to specific questions: "How does the Ministry of Education and Research assess the opportunities for children with special educational needs for learning? " Mailis quite rightly pointed out that in recent years quite a lot of attention has been paid to the learning conditions of children with special educational needs, and this has been done at both legislative and executive level. Support structures have been set up, improved curricula have been developed, reasonable or more reasonable solutions have been sought to organise education for children with special educational needs, etc. There has been a fundamental shift (though it has not reached everywhere) so that children with special educational needs should generally study and could and could study in mainstream schools and mainstream classes. Only in truly justified cases should this training take place in classes for children with special educational needs, which are smaller and require special conditions, both educational and pedagogical, not to mention specific social conditions, and in this case may take place in special schools. In the Ministry of Education and Research, we have developed the concept of education for children with special educational needs, on the basis of which a number of organisational decisions must be taken in the coming years. I think these opportunities are better than ever, even though we have a long way to go, both on a general philosophy level, to see, understand and support children with special educational needs around us and on organisational issues. The second question: "To what extent are schools prepared to teach pupils with special educational needs? ' I use more or less the same words: they are growing ready. The problems faced by pupils with special educational needs are increasingly integrated into teacher preparation, as well as in retraining and further training. The number of teachers who have received this training is gradually increasing. In some schools, 50%, 60%, or 70% of teachers have been in-service teachers, although the average rate is between 12% and 20%. There is therefore quite a room for improvement in continuing education. Question 3: "What support structures do you think are necessary to train children with special educational needs? " It is certainly not only that ordinary teachers are specifically prepared, but also people with more specialised pedagogical training are also needed, whether they are logopaedics, psychologists, social pedagogues, or representatives of a more limited profession. When it comes to support structures, we can talk about organisational issues in particular. The same concept that we have developed and agreed in the Ministry of Education, or, rather, what we have agreed, must be taken into account, because this concept has not yet received final approval. These support structures are the classes of children with special educational needs, which are the structure of the school organisation, but also, if necessary, the schools of children with special educational needs, which we already have historically, but the division of roles of which obviously needs to be reviewed more clearly. Students studying in special schools really need these special conditions in justified cases. These schools do not have to solve other, predominantly social problems. In addition, in order to meet the needs of a large number of smaller schools, it is probably reasonable to set up support centres where there would be competence to provide a wide range of small-scale support services in a situation where the creation of a separate position in a school is not justified. Given the fact that in many of our schools less than a hundred children are studying, the creation of independent positions is probably not always the most sensible. These structures are basically designed, assembled and developed, and a clearer determination of responsibility will be ahead in the coming years. Question 4: "To what extent does the education allowance granted by the State cover the salaries of support specialists in 2013, what are the plans for 2014? " First of all, the money allocated by the state fully covers the wage needs of support specialists in public schools. I can't imagine any other way. This was the case in 2012, so it will be in 2013 and 2014 and beyond. With regard to support for local government schools, this is still foreseen today. In order to teach children with special educational needs, educational support funds are much higher than for ordinary children. Here is one clarification: the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act does not provide for specific allocations to cover the wage costs of support specialists. The additional costs for teachers' salaries are foreseen, which will be allocated both in 2012 and in 2013 and 2014. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, I think we should really talk about the subject of support specialists. Despite the agreements between the various people and institutions to which Mailis Reps referred, it must be said that the rule of law can still be based only on the laws, not on the good faith agreements of the good people. That is why I think that we need to come back to this subject at the level of basic school and upper secondary school law. If the Riigikogu considers it necessary to cover the labour costs of support specialists working in municipal and private schools from the state budget, this regulation must be provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In addition to this commitment, additional resources must be allocated to cover these costs. According to the current law, it's the job of a schoolkeeper. There's no point in looking for accusations or reproaches on someone in my position, rather it's just a statement. The law is supreme for the executive and conflicting with its provisions is not the solution to the problem, but the postponement of the solution. I call on you to discuss this problem and also to take a decision on the additional resources that would certainly be needed to improve the learning conditions for pupils with special educational needs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U298	Minister, thank you. You have a few questions. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U299	Thank you. In society, there were two changes to one ideology at a time. One was that children with special needs were taken from special schools to general education schools. It must have been the only way to make them full members of society. At exactly the same time, it was also found that these so-called adults should not be in separate social homes or, God forbid, in ghettos, but should be scattered around the city. This second option has led to huge setbacks. Apartment cooperatives are unable to clean up from behind these people and are unable to train full people from them. There are already very enthusiastically rumors that they should still be put in places where they are more guarded and so on. In schools, by the way, it has been said that since a very large proportion of students are towboats anyway, who are willing to sit there, but are not very actively involved, there is a new problem: does the other side of dealing with children with special educational needs not mean creating special conditions for particularly talented children, so that they do not just get caught up in weak schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U300	I think that it is inappropriate to compare children with special educational needs with their fellow citizens who behave in an antisocial way. At the same time, I am convinced that the good colleague Aadu Black did not think that way. Rather, it was a metaphorical comparison of children with educational difficulties and behavioral disorders who need serious consideration of the extent to which their families would be involved in their problems in order to ensure the safety of other people and sound learning conditions for children. But these children make up a much smaller proportion of the people we are talking about, or 24000 young people who have special educational needs for different reasons, whether for health or other reasons. I think creating a black and white picture would be misleading. There are certainly young people, children, students who, and their families, have the best solution to have a place of study and also a place of residence in a special school with care and education in the amount that is reasonable and capable. It has never been a question of directing these students to a normal school of general education. No one's going to do that either. Speculation and intimidation of such decisions, I think, is not appropriate. Special schools for children with special educational needs have around 2 000 places of study at the level of public schools. This is currently the required rate and will remain more or less the same in the future. So there's no reason to speculate that now everyone is being sent, sorry for the expression, the antisocial children in regular schools to break the peace of learning. These schools, which are intended for children with special educational needs, will certainly continue to be needed, and special classes will also be needed. However, we should be more specific about the indications. We now have children in these schools who could do excellently in the normal class, but for various, predominantly social reasons, they have graduated in the nearest special school. It is worth being more flexible here and looking with parents for opportunities that can be offered through socialisation. Perhaps special schools stigmatize many children who, without this stigma, would be able to develop into more competitive members of society. I think we're doing our best right now, trying to create clarity. Creating special conditions for children with special needs is certainly part of this solution. There's no plan to make anything smaller here, let alone lose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U301	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U302	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'll give you an example of Narva and just Narva Paju School, which you must know. It is an ordinary school, one of the regional schools of the city, but also a school for children with special needs. There's also a kindergarten there. Over the years, a good institution with a friendly climate has developed. Socialization in this school is taking place, specialists are very good there. Students go on to study there and come back to school to teach. But this school, on the one hand, is measured like a regular school. That's right in the sense of the law. But on the other hand, he is a special model, which is also of value. How does the Ministry judge such an experience? What can you do to keep it from disappearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U303	There are many schools that do very good and even outstanding work in training children with special educational needs. These include the Narva Paju School and the Old Town Educational College. There are quite a number of such institutions, especially in larger municipalities. Children with special educational needs have also been taken into account when financing or supporting them from the state budget through the local government. The practice of such schools is valuable. It has also been supported. Whether enough or not, that is a question of its own. You helped with your question to come back to a subject that Mailis Reps touched a little bit and I did not answer. This is a funding of 20 individual hours. I don't know why it had fallen between the chairs before. I've been asking you to sign up for 20 hours on the funding model. That's not a lot of money. The only problem is that we want to make sure that the indications are really justified. The initial assessment of the training of children requiring training focused on teaching one student was 20 children. Now it turns out that the number of these children is constantly increasing, and no one can tell how many there are. We should not create uncontrolled problems for ourselves. Where the matter is under control and the indications are justified, the full amount of funding should be as foreseen in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U304	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U305	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I wanted to talk about it because we actually had a fifth question. But thank you for coming to this. As I understand it, in 2013, you are prepared to make up for this deficit, which is quite large for schools, but in terms of the state budget, it is not that much. I hope we are still talking about 2013 already. That was certainly one of the reasons that prompted me to ask this question. We've made huge plans with the law of primary school and upper secondary school. We've been discussing for several years, inviting specialists and analyzing. But when we go to practice, the few schools that have been front speakers and advised everyone to apply small classes are the ones who get the most of their fingers. It is likely that their desire to encourage other conventional schools to create small classes in Tallinn, for example, is hampered by this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U306	I guess that's right. However, I say here in the Riigikogu Chamber that we also have to understand in education where there is a limit to reasonableness. In one way, I was pleased to hear the words of my German colleague's praise after a visit to the Old Town Educational College. He was indeed surprised at the quality of the work done in the Old Town Educational College. Then he asked me where this activity was financed. I said it's all in the state budget. He replied that the German state was not so rich that it could offer it all. I am not calling for these decisions to be reviewed or reversed, but I call on all decisions with which we sincerely want to do good always to consider the price of decisions and whether we can actually cover all the direct and indirect costs that accompany our good decisions. To be honest, one of the most difficult tasks of the Ministry of Education is somehow to redeem all these statements of good faith, whether verbal or some kind of protocol commitments with no legal or budgetary cover. The result is that people have done well in good faith, they have tried to do their best, but in the end there is a quarrel in the house because resources are not responsibly planned. Then people feel deceived, both those involved, who organize it in local governments, schools or the Ministry of Education, not to mention parents who in many cases seem to have found a final and excellent solution to their concerns, but the practical result is far from expected. Then the disappointment is justified and the reproach for irresponsible decisions is, in my opinion, well founded. We better share fewer promises, stick to everything we have promised, do it, and we will find a budgetary financial cover for each new promise from the first moment. Otherwise, we will act with a good heart, but we will cause problems for people. Neither does this tension between the Ministry and the local government come from anywhere other than in good faith, but to the end with unthinkable decisions. So I'm going to sum it up. But I hope there is, however, an understanding that this problem cannot be solved unilaterally in the Ministry, the Riigikogu or local governments. It is still necessary to sit down and find a solution and formulate it in a way that everyone understands in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U307	Thank you! Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U308	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, When we associate with kindergartens, we often hear that there are more and more children with special needs. There's a fear this is going to get worse. Is there any kind of prognosis in the ministry that this need may be greater in the future than it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U309	This is such a very difficult question. You stated just like the fact that the number of children with special educational needs is increasing. I understand that logic myself. If there are posters on the streets, "Note and acknowledge the difference," then in the end we are all with special educational needs, all, one hundred percent, and it would be best for the taxpayer to give us one lesson. But you do realize that there are certain reasonable limitations to this beautiful request. Indeed, there is a medically predictable range of specific educational needs that are indicated. Some of those genetically induced are statistically pretty predictable. This is shown by the fact that their number is quite constant in different populations. I would take the view that the number of children with special educational needs is increasing, and that is a huge problem, very calmly. Part of this growth is because we are better able to diagnose or determine a specific need, and part of the fact that, since there is a lot of money being given to teach children with special educational needs, there is also a temptation to find and write down a great deal of them. But I think that in education we can deal with these problems, just as we can elsewhere. I don't see any trouble in all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U310	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have some familiar families where children have attended special school. I was watching that study develop there. I must acknowledge the work that teachers do with these children. But when these kids graduate from school and go under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs, you know, it's like this job that these kids did for ten years or a little bit longer is gonna run like sand because they're gonna have a lot of trouble finding a job. Do you not think that this system should have the first, second and third stages in the whole country so that these people are constantly under the radar of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U312	It's time for the evening, but the question is extremely serious. When these children run out of compulsory education, they must enter a normal life where social benefits are indeed modest. These are many times lower than the amounts we spend in the education system. You can turn the matter around and ask whether the funds provided in the first seven years of life to support their students or children are at a reasonable level. We see that even before school, these sums are much more modest. Let's think a little bit about psychology and all the questions we should have the answer to when we talk about being a member of society for people with disabilities in a narrower sense. Are we reasonably allocating the money that we are currently spending on these people's pre-school, school and rest of their lives? How could this comprehensive public support look, and are these decisions reasonable or not? There is an enormous amount of room for improvement here. I understand those parents who are quite upset about how the state behaves at times. But on the positive side, as Minister for Education and Research, I can say that the part of the three cycles that is the responsibility of the state, or compulsory education, is at least the best covered financially. That's probably a fair argument. I do not want to say that nothing can be improved, but there is quite a lot of room for improvement in the broad sense, as you have raised this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U313	Minister, thank you. Unfortunately or luckily, there are no further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U314	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said in the introduction, education for children with special educational needs was discussed by the Riigikogu Committee on Culture and, at times, the large hall was indeed quite thorough for several years. Certainly, the Minister knows that on several occasions the question arose from the perspective he was dealing with today in the Committee on Culture. Whether, at the time, this so-called third chapter is actually financed in that extent, in terms of the volumes and responsibilities which the State and the schoolmaster assume. Despite these questions, the agreement was finally just as stated in the draft. The reason for this major dispute over support services was that the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provided for a number of new obligations. In addition to logos, special pedagogues and school psychologists, the Government of the Republic concluded an agreement in the name of the Minister of Regional Affairs and local authorities, represented by the Association of Cities and Rural Municipalities, that in the future social pedagogies would be financed from education support, due to the new draft, additional commitments and mutual agreement. This talk, as if education support should not support support support services, is a new interpretation according to which the state finances only teachers, classroom leaders and school leaders. This is a legally quite interesting debate. For years, however, there has actually been an agreement that, in addition to the minimum wage rates, there is a financial limp in educational establishments. It is now asked whether this hindrance can still be used to finance support services in 2013, especially in view of what the Minister has stated here, that in the case of special educational needs, such as learning in a small class or in a smaller group (formerly referred to as a higher coefficient), support services have already been included. Another important issue is that those regular schools working with children with special needs and with small classes or individual training received great surprise after the so-called clarifications of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, how one or the other group will be included in the EHIS data, when you find out that funding has changed, politely speaking, weaker, or some schools were faced with deficits. The Tallinn Old Town Educational College has been mentioned here today. However, I have asked about this in quite a number of schools with small classes or individual learning, and I can assure you that this problem does not only concern one school. It is simply in a school where there are fewer children with special needs in proportion, that the school is more easily prepared to compensate for these disadvantages by internal relocations and money transfers than in a school where the percentage of children with special educational needs is much higher. We certainly do not want to withdraw from the promises that were made in this Chamber when adopting the basic school and upper secondary school law and from the signals sent to both parents and society. However, if we agree with the Minister's or the Ministry of Education's view that education for children with special educational needs cannot or will not be financed to this extent, then the basic school and upper secondary school law should definitely be renewed. It must not be said that this is a problem for local governments or schools alone if the obligations that the law requires are not met in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U315	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-03_U316	Good fellows! Now everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a performance in a free microphone after a hammer hit. I look forward to active participation! No calls, so there's no free microphone today. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 20.51 a.m.
