ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the competition law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, the draft law amending the Food Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder when processing this draft. Thirdly, the draft law on ratification of the amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Kristen Mikcal when processing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten Social Democrats, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Minister of Culture Rein Lang regarding the propaganda films of the Reform Party funded by the MISA. I remember last week, I went over an inquiry on the same subject to the Auditor General, but during the public discussion that arose, no person concerned was able to take responsibility for what happened. Moreover, according to the statements of various individuals, the following picture emerges, rather inclined to humor: first, MISA did not know that Inforing was going to film reform parties for taxpayers' money; second, Inforing did not know that he was filming reform parties, but was filming just nice people; third, reform parties did not even know who was filming them for and for what money, and Ossinovsky, who was simply offended by the fact that he was not filmed. Based on the explanations given by reform party members, MISA and Inforing, it may seem that this was just an unfortunate case. However, looking at MISA's governance structure and project evaluation of the Commission's composition, such an explanation is not plausible. I would like to remind you that both the Head of the MISA and the Chairman of the Council are members of the Reform Party, and in addition to three party experts, there were two members of the political party and both of the Reform Party members of the committee that evaluated the projects. These include Laine Randjärv's advisor to the Riigikogu Olga Burmakina and Evgeni Žurjari-Ossipov. It cannot be said that the Head of the MISA Integration Fund is also Kristiina Esop, a member of the Reform Party, who has, among other things, been an advisor to Kristiina Ojuland, one of the film's main characters, in Brussels. Propaganda films were funded to a large extent from this fund. In view of the above-mentioned political leadership of the Foundation Our People in Human Resources Policy and the obvious circumvention of responsibility, we are going to ask the Minister of Culture six questions. We hope that the Minister of Culture will make a clear assessment of the case and will give his opinion on who is responsible for the case and who should compensate Estonian and European taxpayers for the funds misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to grant them to the procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Here's the news. First of all, the Board of the Riigikogu has intervened in the proceedings of the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a Draft Act amending § 177 (8) of the Employment Contracts Act, which was initiated on 7 November, and has appointed it as the commission of the Social Affairs Committee. Secondly, I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. May I have your attention, please? The Finance Committee has proposed to remove from the agenda this week the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is on the agenda of this week on Wednesday 14 November, item 12. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote with this amendment. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, there was no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U6	Let us begin by answering the questions on today's agenda. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi on 26 September. a request for information on the starting grant for young doctors (No 192). I would like to ask my colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, From this year, doctors starting under the Health Services Organisation Act will be able to apply for a starting allowance of up to EUR 15000. The aim of the starting grant is to motivate early doctors to start working in rural areas. Under the current legislation, a doctor who has completed a residency degree and has obtained specialist medical care in anesthesiology, emergency medicine, laboratory medicine, family medicine, radiology and internal diseases or general surgery may apply for starting allowance. The allowance is intended for doctors who start work in local and general hospitals and family doctor practice outside Tallinn and Tartu attraction centre or local authorities directly adjacent to them. In order to qualify for the allowance, you must work at least 40 hours per week. Both the Estonian Association of Young Doctors and the Estonian Medical Association have pointed out that the conditions for obtaining initial support are too unfavourable. Work must be carried out at full load and for at least five years, but some professions cannot achieve full load in rural areas. The parties also consider it important that the amount of support is fixed and not dependent on the number of candidates. This is confirmed by the fact that although the state was prepared to pay the starting grant to a total of 10 doctors this year, no young doctor has so far asked for a grant. Let it be said that the budget for next year also provides for the same level of initial support. In this regard, we are asking why this support does not work as it was intended. We have asked Mr Pevkur five questions, to which we are also waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Mr Hanno Pevkuri, Minister for Social Affairs, to the speaker's seat, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to respond to the question of starting support for young doctors. The first question: 'What may have caused young medical staff's lack of interest in starting support? ' Here, of course, it is possible to propose several versions. Let us begin by saying that the first young doctor has now made a request to that effect, and quite a few others have taken an interest in the conditions. But it is also worth remembering that this is only the first year that we have offered young people this opportunity. We chose this scheme precisely because, first and foremost, young doctors need local and general hospitals. The need is certainly lower in regional hospitals, where young people want to work more anyway. We hope that future work will help young doctors want to go to general hospitals even more. Similarly, I believe that young people want certainty about the services that general hospitals will provide in the future in order to make their job choices. The second question is how possible I consider the proposal by the Estonian Association of Doctors and the Estonian Association of Young Doctors to change the amount of aid. In short, this was the original plan that I had and it is worth recalling that with such a proposal we went to the state budget negotiations last year, 2011 as well. There was a wish for this grant to be EUR 15000 per applicant. Since we were able to plan the state budget for EUR 150000, in order to avoid the risk of more applications, and to avoid that the cost of the state budget could exceed what was planned, the text of the law agreed in this hall was worded so that it would be up to EUR 15000. But right now, I believe that, both this year and next year, every applicant who needs to be, can count on EUR 15000. If possible, I will not rule out that we can fix a fixed amount instead of 'up to EUR 15000'. The third question: "Did the conditions for the starting grant apply in view of the views of the stakeholders or did they not ask for an opinion? " The brief answer is, of course, that they were asked. We sent this draft to the Estonian Association of Doctors, the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Association of Young Doctors and the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu. At the time, our proposals were sent to us in writing by the Hospital Association and the Medical Association. There was also the most meaningful proposal from the Doctors' Association, or most of the comments, some of which coincide with what you mentioned in your inquiry. The Association of Family Doctors, the Junior Doctors Association and the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu did not submit proposals within the prescribed deadline. It is worth recalling that, recently, we changed the procedure slightly under the law, i.e. extended the deadline for submitting an application by one month. The fourth question: "How do you see that it is possible to meet the requirement of full-time employment in every field of study in rural areas too? ' In response, it can be said that a doctor who has completed a residency degree and obtained a specialty in anesthesiology, emergency medicine, laboratory medicine, family medicine, radiology, internal diseases or general surgery may apply for starting allowance. The establishment of starting aid is based on the list of specialties in which general or local hospitals are required to provide'mandatory' services. Thus, in these specialties, full-time work must be ensured in general hospitals or local hospitals. That is why this method was chosen, and we can see clearly that this requirement can be met. As far as family doctors are concerned, it is not possible, as a result of the work manual of the family doctor and the health professionals working with him, to provide general medical care on a part-time basis, and part-time work would not guarantee the quality of service of the members of the family doctor's list. So, in the case of family doctors, that is out of the question. Question 5: "How should the start-up aid system be made more effective so that it fulfils its objective and motivates young doctors to work in rural areas? " Surely we have already discussed a variety of points in the ministry. However, we continue to believe that we want to keep a very clear focus on general and local hospitals and, above all, on the specialties that are compulsory in general and local hospitals in the case of start-ups. If we were to withdraw this claim and say that all young doctors are entitled to apply for this support, the principle of starting a young doctor would change to a very large extent. If we changed this principle in this way, we would further motivate young people to go to large hospitals, not rural areas or county centres. As I said, there are already some thoughts, but when this is over until the end of the year, we will come back, both internally and with stakeholders, to discuss whether and how much we should change this system. Similarly, development plans are currently under discussion, and the development plans for medical specialties may also reveal whether or not we need to change the principles of starting aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U10	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'll try to ask you two questions in a minute. Is it possible that a foreign doctor may also be eligible for the starting grant? I am thinking, above all, of third countries, because we all know that some will be happy to come to work, for example, in Ida-Virumaa. The second part of the question is that perhaps you will talk a little bit more about this single young doctor who has applied for starting support. Who is he, where is he, and why did he do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U12	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U13	Thank you. I'll start at the end. This is a young person who has named Põlva Hospital as her job. I believe that who he is is not important in this case. It is important that he or she fulfils all the conditions necessary to qualify for the starting allowance and that he or she has decided to choose Põlva Hospital as a job. So this is a positive sign. As I said, there have been other interested parties, but this interest is not a formalized request, whatever reasons it is, whether there has been considered a'mandatory period' too long or there is something else. As far as foreign students are concerned, foreign students are subject to exactly the same rules as Estonian doctors. I should do the text of the law and see if we have written that we must be an Estonian citizen. I'm sorry, I don't have the text of the law at hand right now, and everything doesn't quite literally remember. We can review the text of the Act together and then it is certainly possible to say whether this right will only extend to Estonian citizens or extend to all doctors who work in a general or local hospital in Estonia. It is also remembered, however, that there is a restriction as to when the residency has been completed. So it has to be a young doctor. It is not the case that I have graduated from school somewhere in Russia or in Latvia or Lithuania 20 years ago, I come to work at a general hospital in Estonia and then receive a start-up grant. No, it's not, it's clearly linked to the termination of the residency.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few days ago, I spoke to a young doctor. He told me how Tartu was quite hotly discussed with students and young doctors about a proposal that was spoken by one of the professors at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu: to extend the residency by one year. I was asked to take this opportunity to ask you how you feel about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U15	Thank you. I know that such a debate is very lively, and I have also met with the board of medical students and discussed it briefly with them. The truth is, Dean Starkopf has talked about this, too. Let's say here's the choice: either to extend the residency period by one year or to conduct one "old" internship within the current residency. The content would still be that in the first year of residency, a student should go to as many medical institutions and departments as possible, i.e. he would work in the internal department, deal with family medicine, and maybe he could do a few more things for a few months. Elik's young person is given the opportunity to decide, not immediately after basic education, what is his or her specialty, but to try more than one specialty in one year and then choose the one that is most suitable for him or her. I believe that the Faculty of Medicine of the University is debating this subject very passionately and thoroughly and there is a clear understanding of what the best way is. This serves one purpose: to make our young doctors even better trained than they are today. In addition, young doctors can choose the residency that is most suitable for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U16	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a reform of the hospital network. As we know, specialised medical care and inpatient hospital care are concentrated in regional hospitals. Does this mean that a young doctor's starting allowance in the counties may not be needed soon, as doctors may not be needed soon, or will there be much less need for them? In this context, should the procedure for granting early-stage medical allowance change in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U18	Thank you. The truth is that medical professions have given their opinion on how they can see what kind of medical care could be obtained in Estonia. There was a great deal of talk about what kind of service we receive in which hospital. During the strike, the Doctors' Association repeatedly expressed the concern that young people need confidence in which hospital the type of service is provided. It would also allow you to choose specializations. We clearly agree that we need to agree on this as soon as possible to give certainty to hospitals and young doctors who go to basic education or residency. They need to know for sure what hospitals are like as potential future employers. There must also be confidence in patients, the most important thing is that they know what kind of service they receive at which hospital. Whether there is a need to amend the legal provisions on starting allowance, we see. But that should not be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U19	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Glad to hear that this young doctor chose Põlva Hospital as his job. I'm sure it's a good hospital, and I think he made a good choice. But did you give him the assurance that he'll have another job at Põlva Hospital in five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U21	Thank you. A young doctor will probably get a job in Põlva Hospital in five years' time. Knee hospital isn't going anywhere. As with many other hospitals, when we are talking about hospitals in general or county centres, the question arises as to which services are provided there. If you look at what Põlva Hospital is offering now and what it could offer in the future, in time, adjustments have already been made. Since the hospital is a living organism, if that is the case in a transferred sense, it is clear to everyone that the services have changed in time and will continue to change. But it would really be my wish, in cooperation with hospitals, doctors and others, including the public, to give the same young person as quickly as possible the signal that we expect from the hospital in five years' time or ten years' time. I do not think it would be wise to delay these decisions in the light of the fact that maybe we will be significantly richer or twice as many people will come to Põlvamaa. Such a blue-eyed dream would be evil. Given the proximity of Tartu, we need to look at the services that are reasonable in Põlva, and then both patients and doctors can be sure that the services that are there will remain for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U22	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U23	Family doctors, yes. Let's add it to the other side. In addition to the start-up allowance for young doctors, do these two factors give rise to two family doctors in Valgamaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U24	Family doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Some time ago, we dealt with a bill here, which makes health care arrangements out of the county administration's jurisdiction under the Health Care Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U26	Thank you for your question. I'd really hope so. Valgamaa is one of Estonia's counties, where some lists are really free now. But I can also assure you that, in all this general arrangement, whether it is intended for a better functioning of the substitution system or for the lists to be fulfilled, the support of rural governments and rural governments, particularly local authorities, is also, of course, needed. Elik, when we talk about smaller municipalities, we know that municipalities from all over Estonia have come to help family doctors, for example, with premises or other facilities. If local governments are able to do so, of course, this will only make it easier for the Health Board to work well with the county government and local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U27	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U28	The next question is Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas, Priit Toobali and Aadu Musta on 2 October. a request for information on the sustainability of the healthcare system (No 194). Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U29	Madam President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We formalized our inquiry and presented it when the health workers' strike began. October 1st was the first day of the strike, and on October 2nd we reported on the inquiry. That is why the text of the inquiry, or 'preamble', speaks of a time-long strike. Today the strike is over, but many of the problems that the strikers set up have not been solved and are quite appropriately noted in our inquiry. From 1 October, health workers began to strike with the aim of stopping doctors and nurses leaving Estonia, stopping the breakdown of the health care system. Strickers want to set a cap on the workload and increase healthcare funding to make medical care more accessible to patients. The inquiry has said that the parties have not reached a common agreement so far. Not all points have been agreed, and what has been agreed is still a big question mark. In order to ensure the sustainability of the funding of the health care system, additional resources should be found in the Health Insurance Fund's budget, which has been proposed in various ways, such as ending several years of non-compliance and compensating for the depreciation of hospital buildings from the state budget. These questions, which were raised at the time, of increasing the funding of health care, of ensuring better access to health care, remain, despite the fact that the strike has ended. The following questions are raised in the inquiry: How do you, Minister, assess the current state of health in Estonia? What is the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs to prevent doctors and nurses from leaving Estonia? Leaving continues and the current health system situation has not changed much since the strike ended. Is it planned to cover the depreciation of the hospital buildings from the 2013 state budget, as foreseen by the Health Services Act? What opportunities do you see, Mr Minister, to bring additional money to the health care system and thus to improve access to health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U30	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. Minister for Social Affairs, once again, I would like to ask you to speak to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U31	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and others in the hall! Let's get to the questions right now. How do I assess the current situation of the Estonian health care system? Let me count myself as 72% of the Estonian people who appreciate the current state of medical care in Estonia. According to the latest survey, the same number of people also appreciate the satisfaction of family doctors and doctors. If we look at the current situation in parts, I am very pleased that we have lost the ceiling of EUR 12.79 on 50% of the products from 1 October this year. We have had a lot of price negotiations on the pharmaceutical market, which has led to a decrease in people's own participation in prescription medicines for the last three years in a row. As a reminder, in 2009 the share of the purchase of prescription medicines was 36.9%, currently falling to 33.7 according to the figures of the first half of this year, which is certainly positive. Until 2009, unfortunately, we saw only an increase in this area. If you look at any more changes, I am very pleased that the first birds are written in the context of e-visit and e-consultation. Some pilot studies have been carried out using e-mail and the results showed that one third to half of the patients received a specialist visit more quickly than seven days, the parties were assigned additional studies already before the visit, and on average 11% did not need a specialist visit, an e-consultation was sufficient. These latest, most recent developments can certainly be considered positive when assessing the current situation of the health system. And such examples could be given more and more. But if you ask for an overall assessment, I think it can be said that the current situation is good, but it is certainly possible to do better and more. The second question: 'What is the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs to prevent doctors and nurses from leaving Estonia? ' That's what we've been talking about here many times, but let's recount some points in concentrated volumes. For example, the same starting grant that was discussed in the previous inquiry has already entered into force this year. First-level changes, i.e. we could reduce the burden on specialist doctors by doing the necessary work in the right place It is also worth recalling the further differentiation of the family doctors' bounty, the change of the base money and the distance charge limit price, and the increase in the research fund. A new level has come back to the research fund. Similarly, when the research fund is used over, the family doctor is able to ask for additional resources, as did the specialist. We have set up a replacement system, given greater rights to family nurses, and midwifery assistance has acquired an independent outpatient right. It is worth recalling that it tends to forget that the coefficient for healthcare prices finally disappeared in 2012. In January of this year, time flies so fast, it would have been a long time ago, but only in January of this year did we enter into a consensus agreement to be sure of the reception of young residents. We've increased the reception to 145 places of study. It should be pointed out that the wage agreement or the so-called 'pre-existing agreement' for health care workers is currently signed. As far as the strike is concerned, I am not going to argue here whether the strike is correct or not with the demands of the health care system and other, not with the elements of the collective labour dispute. Finally, it is certainly worth mentioning the very large allocation of structural support to hospitals. The last opening wasn't until Friday. It was the opening of the nursing center at Elva Hospital. Third, the question is whether the planned depreciation of the hospital buildings from the state budget for next year will be asked. I would point out that the Law on the organisation of health services provides this opportunity, not an obligation. In the case of hospital buildings, we still need to talk about the fact that there have been considerable European resources to renovate hospital buildings. But it is also true that during this year's budget negotiations, the Ministry of Social Affairs requested an increase in the budget of EUR 7912371 to cover depreciation, but in view of a very large number of priorities, the Ministry of Finance did not grant this request. I say once again that the total amount of resources devoted to the improvement and renovation of hospital buildings, and thus to lower costs, is very, very large, in hundreds of millions. Question 4: What opportunities do I see for the healthcare system to raise extra money? This has been mentioned many times, and I am certainly a fiery supporter of this proposal in order to remove sickness benefits from the health insurance budget and integrate the sickness benefits system into the general disability system. This would make it possible to obtain additional funds for health insurance. Speaking of proposals from outside, the media had a lot of talk last week about the visit fee and the bed pay. But in the end, both the visit fee and the bed-day fee mean one thing: to bring extra money to the health care system. This would provide an opportunity to comply with the wage agreement concluded between doctors and hospitals, and hospitals would be able to pay the various public utility costs that have increased. So it is very likely that Parliament will have a debate on visitation fees and bed-day fees. They would certainly bring extra money for hospitals and the health care system as a whole. If these funds are not available, it is therefore not possible to talk about expenditure in such volumes either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U32	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Of course, we all understand that, as the law allows, health care professionals were only able to highlight wage issues in their strikes. But at the same time, we both know very well that they also made other demands in several forms. A working group on the future of health is currently working, where one possible point of the document is that the day's visit and bed pay should not rise. This has also been demanded by health professionals, but these fees are still rising. Is it your fundamental view that the resources that produce healthcare in addition should come from the pockets of the patients and not from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U34	Thank you for your question. Now I'm gonna have to be a little more specific, even though you're gonna be there in the task force. We've talked about the patient's involvement. The patient's own contribution is made up of a wide range of components, including visit and bed pay, private participation of prescription medicines, dental care fees and other costs incurred by patients. If you look at the patient's own shares, the most recent information shows that last year the patient's own shares dropped to 17.6%. As regards the day-to-day and visit fees, it is clear that 50 kroons in 2002, when these fees were introduced, represented a significantly higher proportion than the average pension or salary. If we also look at the fact that there are still restrictions on when and when the visit fee may not be charged, and that the bed-day fee may not be charged for more than 10 days if the patient has to stay in the hospital longer, then all the general health insurance will be covered, I think that the hospital union application was well-founded and worth considering. I am of the opinion that if this principle is to be changed, it must be done by the great hall of the Riigikogu. But let us admit that when we talk about extra health care money, it will naturally be a sum of money from all of our pockets. Whether it comes from taxes or directly from the patient's visit or bed pay, in any case, we will all pay in solidarity in one way or another, so that we can receive medical care. So there are different ways, but I think it is fair and right from the point of view of hospitals that if the Riigikogu has decided in its time that these two amounts, the visit fee and the bed-day fee will depend on the consumer price, and the consumer price has changed in ten years, this should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U35	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Speaking of the current situation of the Estonian health care system, this summer our group met with the Estonian Arstide Union. Among other things, there was the fact that what you want, in Estonia there is no more or less precise overview of how many doctors we work, figure out people who have been abroad for years, who are on unpaid leave, etc. I don't even know how many doctors we have right now. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U37	I am sorry, with all due respect to the representatives of the Medical Association, that is not the correct statement. There are quite a few databases to look at these things from. If you really look at doctors in the Register of the Health Board, of course there are those who are on unpaid leave, those who have completed medical education but are retired. But we also have another number, these are practicing doctors. This register will be kept very accurately, both at the Health Board and at the Institute for Health Development, which will conduct annual surveys. In addition, we asked the Health Board and the Social Insurance Board to make a comparison of data, not on a personal basis, this year on the basis of which employees who work for a health care provider are paid social tax. The figures were very similar to those pointed out by the National Institute for Health Development. If I'm trying to remember, that number was 4349. The number of doctors in this size has been in Estonia for a very long time, plus or minus a hundred doctors. But yes, we do not know what their burden is, we can only anonymously compare whether or not a person has been paid social tax. I believe that we have data on how many doctors work in Estonia. The more difficult thing is these burdens, because the Social Insurance Board does not look at the burdens, it looks at the payment of social tax. But several doctors, several personal identification numbers are unique, that's exactly what we can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U38	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dental care is a very expensive service, and among our health services it is currently a type of treatment that is 100% owned by adults. The result is a very large number of people who are unable to use this service. Do you think it has to be that way, and will it continue to be that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U40	Thank you. In a situation where we have employees on the labour market, i.e. taxpayers in the size of 650,000, a little below, and those who have been insured are nearly twice as many, we must, in this way, make some sort of choice as to what and how much to compensate for, how much and what kind of health insurance cover to provide. In order to pay doctors a decent salary to provide queues within a reasonable time, the choice made in time is that dental care is one of the types of treatment where a person of working age pays for himself. Whether this changes or not depends first and foremost on whether and how Estonian society as a whole will become richer. And if we get richer, then there is a choice as to whether or not we will go before we cut the queues or go on the way to raise the doctors' pay, whether or not we are going to compensate for any other type of treatment, compared to dental care, for example. These are the choices. In this sense, it is quite simple: if there is more money, it is also possible to make choices that we are going to compensate for. I am of the opinion that, in the present situation, we should certainly stick to the fact that dental care is free for children, that it is compensated to a certain extent for the elderly, and that people of working age can also attend dentists themselves. If we have more money, there are different choices, and it is the Health Insurance Board that has a cross-section of the whole society and who has to make these choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U41	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Can an equal sign be placed between here and the rise in bed and visit fees guarantee the wages of nurses, care workers, doctors next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U43	Thank you. I already answered it in Question Time so I wouldn't put a 100% equal sign here. However, it was also in the preliminary agreement that if a certain wage component for all doctors comes from the health insurance fund, or general solidarity fund, and the doctors have a 6.1% share, then hospitals will also have to find own resources to raise the minimum fees. There are a wide range of options for finding their own resources, but hospitals also need to cover the costs of heating and electricity increases and the sum of these costs is one of the hospital's budgets. It is in this situation that the hospitals have proposed that the health fund's budget not compensate for the rising salaries of doctors. Let's put it simpler. Initially, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund planned to cover the consumer price component for hospitals. As the salaries of doctors had to rise, the consumer price component was written at zero in the Health Insurance Fund's budget to ensure that doctors' salaries were increased through the Health Insurance Fund. Now, in order to cover the cost of the change in consumer prices, hospitals have to find money somewhere, and to do so, they proposed to increase the bed and visit fees due to the change in consumer prices in accordance with the law. This will certainly give them the opportunity to cover the increase in minimum fees in their budgets for those doctors who receive this payment. I hope that explains the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U44	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U45	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Health Services Management Act provides that the Government of the Republic may also cover the depreciation of hospital buildings from the state budget. You said it wasn't an obligation, it was an opportunity. However, everything that is happening recently in the health system is crying out for additional money to be needed in the health system. You said that seven million euros were requested during the negotiations, but it was thought that priorities were others, and the money did not come to cover depreciation. It would be a little childish to repeat here how easy money is sometimes found to be placed in all kinds of EU financial funds and systems. Was there any discussion to cover the cost of the hospital buildings in part?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U46	I would point out that not seven million, but an exact sum of 7912371, almost eight million. I don't want to open this debate. In the same way, the Minister of Education comes here and complains about his concern that the wallet is thin, and you say in the same way, how can we not find the money to raise teachers' salaries, but to give it to Europe? This is not a fruitful debate. I think that what we can do when we talk about the wear of buildings is to look at hospital buildings and investment in them as a single whole. In this respect, let us be honest, we must admit that over the last five years, not hundreds of millions of kroons have been invested in hospital buildings, but hundreds of millions of euros. The amounts are very high. These investments have all been made to ensure that the Estonian hospital buildings are up-to-date, with low energy consumption, so that we do not have to spend as much on electricity or heat as we do on heating old buildings. So I will certainly look at this situation as a whole. And as far as possible, of course, you can talk about the fact that we're allocating something extra to hospitals. However, it is also worth recalling that the so-called capital costs of hospital buildings are also included in the price component of the health care service, i.e. daily repairs and daily depreciation should actually be seen in this component of the health care service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U47	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U48	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, If anyone wants to know what the situation in the country really is, I think they should look more at the website of Statistics Estonia. It gives a very figurative and clear idea of what is really happening to us. In 1990 a total of 1570000 people lived in Estonia, of which 30% were made up of people under 34 years of age, i.e. those who study, who will acquire a specialty in future teachers, doctors, etc. In 2011, this age group was 21% at the age of 0.34. This means that if there were ever 470000 people in this age group, it is now 270000. This means that the number of people who, even theoretically speaking on today's subject, could become doctors will decrease. Moreover, the organisation you have definitely heard about is Eurostat. Eurostat, as they say, knows everything. They predict that this age group will fall by another 106000 between 2010 and 2030. If we look at the second demographic pole, it turns out that the elderly group (60 years of age and older) accounted for 17% of the population in 1990. This group has grown by a third in 20 years. We understand what this means: more and more doctors and nurses are needed in Estonia every year. What's really going on? I have a very close acquaintance, a young lady who graduated from medical school. He lives in England now, works there as a nurse, that's for sure. When he last visited Estonia and wanted to meet his old friends, it turned out that only one person left in Estonia from their entire medical school group. Everyone else is in Finland, Sweden, England, Germany, etc. At the moment, we need energetic moves; now we need to think strategically about the future. What it sounds like is childish. It's kind of a relief cure for a while, but it doesn't cure the whole system at all. The Auditor General has recently complained that he fears that by the time he has received a pension for a few years, there may be a situation where there is nothing to pay. After all, in medicine, we have a situation that goes on for another 5 to 10 years, and then maybe there aren't those who are going to treat us. This problem needs to be dealt with much more seriously than the current government. It's true. If we're talking about this here, it's not because we want to hit the Minister. We want him to pay attention to the fact that society already understands what this is about to end - a demographic disaster for both health care and the population as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U49	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U50	The next question we will have is the question of the social aspects of price increases (No 195) submitted on 2 October by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev and Jüri Ratas. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U51	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The electricity market, which will open from 1 January next year, will mean an increase in the price of the basic tariff of 58%, and Elering has promised to increase the network charges by 13.3%. All of this means that the human electricity bill will grow by 20% in the new year. In this respect, the increase in electricity prices has a relatively higher impact on poorer households, where electricity costs account for a larger share of annual average expenditures than in households with higher incomes. In addition to the surge in electricity prices, food and non-alcoholic beverages have also increased, with an increase of 20% compared to 2010, for example. Housing costs have increased by 21%. It can therefore be expected that the continuing price increase will bring more and more people in need next year. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act for the following year, in 2013 there will be EUR 4 million less for income support than this year. Is this supposed to mean that people can do better, even though all prices are rising? In a situation where real wages in Estonia had fallen 11 quarters in a row until the fourth quarter of 2011, and the increase in electricity prices is accompanied by an increase in the price of many other products and services, which in turn consume electricity, it would be justified to increase the subsistence limit. However, this is still EUR 76.7 per month next year. In this regard, we have questions for you that are known to you. We're asking for answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U52	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. Please, Mr. Minister, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U53	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Then I'll get to the questions quickly. The first question: "What are the reasons why price increases have not been taken into account when setting the limit for coping? Why is the Ministry of Social Affairs not planning to increase the level of subsistence next year? " Let us say at the outset that the effects of rising electricity prices have been taken into account when drawing up the budget for the next year for income support. According to preliminary forecasts, we have calculated that the impact of electricity prices on the income support budget amounts to EUR 662000. This is based on this year's living expenses and the amount of electricity consumed in the total housing costs. The total cost of housing was 16% last year and consequently a calculation was made that the impact of the electricity price on the income support budget for the following year could be EUR 662000. As for the assumption that there will be more people in need next year, I dare to debate and argue with you a little. If the macro forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are correct, we do not see that the number of recipients of income support should increase. For example, if we compare the first nine months of 2011 and the first nine months of this year, the number of applications has fallen by nearly 2 000 in one month. This is, in fact, quite a significant reduction if the number of applicants is in the order of 15% lower than in the same month of the previous year. And if the impact of electricity prices is negative, in addition to the overall improvement in the economic situation and the creation of jobs, there will certainly be a significant positive impact on beneficiaries of income support on the increase in unemployment benefit. If unemployment benefit increases, some people who now receive more unemployment benefit will ask for less income support. In this sense, these are the sizes on the other side of the front line. Very briefly: yes, of course we have taken these effects into account when making our living calculations. The second question: 'When is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to bring the limit of coping into line with the price increases? " It must be said that § 3 of the Social Welfare Act sets out the general principle of promoting the livelihood of a person and a family. The aim is above all to motivate people to look for work and to avoid a situation where living from grants is more useful in increasing subsidies or changing the organisation. Income support is the so-called last straw remedy, as we have discussed several times in this Chamber. If we look at other social security benefits, we take pensions, parental and family benefits, sickness and unemployment benefits together, they will certainly help to alleviate people's condition. I think that at some point in time, the income support will certainly rise, but at what exact moment it is rising, it is difficult to say at the moment. Question 3: How can a family meet other primary needs if the food basket is EUR 85 per question? It should be made clear here that expenditure on food is indeed the most important item in terms of the size of the subsistence limit. The need for essential goods and services for other people is very different. As a general rule, the payment of income support cannot be based on the assumption that everyone who has to apply for income support also has to spend every month on other essential goods. As I said, income support is the last straw, the aim of which is to help people in the event of a shortage. However, if you look at how income support is applied for, for example, it can be said to be a temporary measure. All the statistics show that this is a temporary measure for people. For example, 15% of applicants have applied for income support once every nine months for statistics for nine months this year, and at most about a quarter of people have applied for income support every month this year. Those who have done this two, three, or four times remain somewhere within a tenth. It is a variable size, and in previous years its volatility has been even greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U54	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask a question, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I guess you're not a doctor or a social worker, you're a lawyer. You are an experienced politician, a political minister, and I will also ask you a political question. I've got this commercial that I saw a little over and over a year and a half ago all the time. This clip allowed once utility payments to be lowered, once electricity was reduced by 50%, monopolised, etc. As a politician, can you evaluate, perhaps the current problems, the ones we are talking about, based on the fact that it is a habit of lying to people, knowing that nobody wants to keep their promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U56	Thank you. You're also an experienced politician, I think you know your ads very well. You know what your ads are like that you've managed and wanted to keep under control, what to buy back and everything else. I don't know if we're going to debate here with you, what you think lies are and what doesn't. I believe that what is important, however, is what helps and how people are helped. The Ministry of Social Affairs, where I am doing my day-to-day work now, has the task of making sure that the resources that we have been allocated to help people can also be fairly and properly delivered to people. In this regard, we will do everything in our power to alleviate the concerns and needs of the people most in need. Work is being done every day to ensure that the budget has resources for income support, that the budget has resources for additional child support, the resources for parental benefits and many more important measures that help those who actually need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U57	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U58	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Helmen Küti, Neeme Suur, Kalvi Tõik, Heljo Pikhofi, Jaan Õunapuu, Urve Palo, Kajar Lemberi, Kalev Kotkas, Jaak Allik, Rein Randver and Andres Anvelt. a Request for information on the availability of technical equipment for persons with special needs submitted on 16 October (No 203). My colleague, Helmen Hunt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U59	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Social Affairs! Eleven Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry into the availability of technical tools for people with special needs. And now to questioning. Under Article 2 of Decree No 79 of the Minister of Social Affairs No 79 of 14 December 2000 entitled "Conditions and arrangements for applying for and allocating technical assistance facilities on preferential terms', all children, persons of working age who have been identified as having a loss of working capacity of 40% or who have been designated as having a degree of disability, those aged old age, those who inject insulin, those who have had their breasts removed as a result of breast cancer, and those who have been found to have had hearing loss since 30 decibels. Since the funds allocated by the State are insufficient, there is a situation where the increase in the number of people entitled to the benefit, as well as the increase in the prices of technical assistance instruments, do not allow those in need to realise the rights deriving from the Regulation. People are waiting in long queues for the provision of a vitally needed tool, which in turn makes their daily lives worse and does not guarantee them a decent life. As early as July-August, the sale and lending of aid instruments has been suspended in many counties, and rural governments are in a state budget shortage that does not allow them to carry out their statutory tasks. However, it is particularly worrying that even children with special needs will not be able to buy discount diapers or to borrow the necessary equipment. As a result, eight questions have been asked, which we ask the Minister for Social Affairs to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U60	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Küttt. Once again, please respond to the speech of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U61	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! This time for the last time. The first question: 'When did the Ministry receive information about the problems of selling aids and lending to children with special needs and other people in need? " Just as the heirs, at least some of you, know, have had some problems with aids, especially because of the cost of aids, at least in the last three or four years, if not even longer. We have seen every year that by the end of the year there will be some shortage of aid, and in recent years additional budgets have been trying to find some relief for these problems. This year, we have proposed to allocate an additional EUR 1 million in additional funds from the additional budget. We have also tried every year to increase the amount of funds available for aid in the budget. Now, if you look at this year, the first reports on some of the outlets came in the second half of June. At the same time, it must, of course, be stressed that the situation of counties and sellers is very different. For example, the sale of inco products on preferential terms stopped in the first counties or in some counties at the end of August or in the first half of September, but there are also counties or sellers who still sell them. The second question: 'In many and which counties have, according to you, stopped or made it difficult to sell aids or to rent? ' As I said in answering the previous question, the situation is very different. At least the representative of the heirs knows very well that some have full service volumes, some have stopped selling on preferential terms or the rental has been suspended. There are also counties where the situation is more complicated by now. More complicated, I can say, is in Põlva, Tartu, Harjumaa and separately in Tallinn as well as Võru. But we're trying to provide relief as soon as possible. If the additional budget of the Riigikogu is processed quickly, additional amounts can be allocated. The third question: what amount is to be allocated and when is it planned to be allocated from the additional budget? I have just said that the total additional budget for 2012 is EUR 1 million. Let's hope it's done quickly. We've planned to give you information on the exact distribution at week 46. I hope everything works out. Question 4: Will the actual execution of last year be taken into account when allocating funds to counties? ' Here I'm still sticking to the fact that we're taking the county population as a basis. It is difficult to base actual execution on. As budgetary resources will be used by all municipalities by the end of the year, it is not as if it is fair to say who will spend the first time. It is still fair to look at the most objective distribution, and the most objective one seems to be the distribution by population. We have also looked at the possible distribution by, for example, the number of people with disabilities and the number of older people, dividing by 50% and 50%, or dividing by three: residents, people with disabilities, the elderly. All options have been considered, but the most objective seems to be the total population. Question 5: How is transparent pricing ensured for firms offering aid instruments that are contractual partners? Here it is very simple: the county governments enter into these agreements, and the county governments will certainly exchange information about what prices are in one place or another. In addition, the heirs certainly already know that we are working on regulation of price caps. Some products have price caps on them and we hope to move on with it as quickly as possible so that we can have the same regulation as medicines: there are price caps and price caps are agreed centrally so that separate agreements are not needed in every county. Question 6: Is and when is there a situation in which requests for more expensive aids are examined twice a year by the Free State Commission? Very briefly, we have planned the Commission's work three times a year for next year. Nor do I want to make this time shorter, because expensive tools are of such a nature that the whole background needs to be made clear in order to decide how much to compensate a person. As a result, the Astangu Disability Information and Resources Centre, together with its experts, gives us a separate assessment. So some waiting time is justified. I believe that if we take away this summer's 'hole', it should be enough three times a year. The seventh question concerns the compensation of hearing impaired and hearing aids. As far as this year is concerned, this would have meant an additional cost of over EUR 200000 for us and, for purely financial reasons, it has been delayed. But next year, as I said, we will still move forward with the introduction of price caps. If, in the first half of next year, we have set limit prices for more sophisticated tools, which are definitely hearing aids, then we can already talk about the fact that both hearing people and anyone who needs aids have the same regulation. The eighth question: do I think there is enough money in the state budget to ensure that aid is provided smoothly? If, for very long years, money has come to an end before the end of the year, it is clear that there is not enough. In the budget for next year, as I answered you in Question Time, we have planned more funds and, fortunately, we have gained more. The same logic of the price cap must always go side by side with it, the price caps must come up. Then these two measures, together with both marginal prices and additional resources, will perhaps really produce a result, so that in future we can talk about meeting the need for aids smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U62	Thank you very much. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I had a few questions about the price limit. Firstly, how can any allocations from the state budget be planned if the marginal prices are unknown? Secondly, how long should partners be informed in advance of the existence of price caps? Is it possible to say tomorrow that, you know, the price limit is that, and that's it? In light of the marginal price, do I understand correctly that, for example, hearing impaired people hope that the state will compensate for most of it? Now, if I'm not mistaken, for example, the hearing aid costs about 1,000 euros, and the country pays 280 of it. Do you hope that the hearing aid will not simply become more expensive in the future and will not look through such an option to increase the state's participation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U64	Thank you. If you mention 1000 euro hearing aids, they are already very good, of high quality. Hearing aids can still be obtained with 400-500 euros. The logic of price caps is very simple. So far, unfortunately in Estonia, yes, the limit price logic was not respected for aid instruments. We have depended very much on the discretion of businesses, should have been good faith in the fact that companies that bring or produce aids to the country do not abuse the pockets of people who need aid or of the state. It's our common wallet we're making these payments out of. That is why this marginal price logic was introduced. When we are talking about the limit price for medicinal products, it makes sense that we are also talking about this in the case of individual aids. The price limit must, of course, be announced in advance, as was the case for inco products, sufficiently early. There is also a need for a price cap agreement. There are two options: whether we are going to enter into price cap agreements or whether we will look at the market situation after fixing the first prices and then set the price cap by ministerial regulation. There are different options, but it is clear that the Estonian taxpayer will not be able to proceed without the logic of the marginal price. There will also be a buffer that involves very expensive aids. When we talk about electric wheelchairs, they can continue to be applied for. That is why a special committee is looking at a person's needs, and if this special need is such that a person needs an electric wheelchair or, for example, a thousand euros or a more expensive hearing aid, they can continue to be obtained, but through a special committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U65	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think that all those who have remained in this hall today, and you, too, do not consider a normal situation where many counties already run out of money in July-August, and the county government does not know how to proceed at all. In a very large number of cases, rural government specialists take responsibility for and pass on this service, assuming that there will be changes in the state budget for the current year, which will make allocations. This year's supplementary budget provides for them, this money was received, and if I am not mistaken, it came from the income support line. But it is unclear to me that if there is such a small resource as the reserve of the Government of the Republic, why is there no current allocation of funds for these expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U67	Thank you. The reserve of the Government of the Republic is clearly for unforeseen expenses. When we are talking about the distribution of aid instruments, the distribution of aid instruments needs to be planned in advance, just as there are very many cost lines in many other ministries. I guess we've been asking for more and more all the time. The personal question is that every budget you make has a choice, and when making choices you have to look for ways to cover one line or another. As I said, next year's budget will be planned again more than this year, and it has been more or less so every year. But what is worrying is that applicants for aid are growing, the population as a whole is ageing, and this means that we need to compensate for more and more aids. That is why we are somehow trying to control these prices, because until last year, there was really no state price control for inco products or anything else, except when the county governments really exchanged price information with each other and then signed contracts with companies. It is a job that is still in progress and what must continue to be done to ensure that more and more people really get the tools they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U68	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U69	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank you, Minister for Social Affairs, for your good and thorough answers. But here's the question. Chambers of people with disabilities all over Estonia have also presented very specific, good proposals to be taken to resolve the situation. Is there a round table at the Ministry or a Chamber where these proposals are discussed? I know that the Chamber of Disabled People of Tartu has submitted as many as six proposals that could be taken into account next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U70	Thank you. People are still being discussed. The umbrella organisation of the Chambers of Disabled People, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, has a very close relationship with the logic of the same limit price. We have even agreed with the Chamber of People with Disabilities a memorandum of principles for cooperation on how we share information with each other. If the questioner is interested, you can find it nicely on the Ministry's website. Of course, we cannot make such decisions without talking to the main groups. It is true that switching to the logic of the marginal price may mean that some people are forced to exchange their usual means of assistance for another tool, but from functionality the instrument may be the same. It's the same with drugs. If we were to make a new price cap with the pharmaceutical company, it might happen the way the front of the evening page had one story that the person went to the pharmacy and his medicine turned out to be more expensive several times, but he forgot that he would have bought a generic medicine, the same medicine would have been cheaper for him than it was before. It is also the case with aid instruments that the marginal price logic could make it cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U71	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We are talking about the list of people, the availability and order of technical aids. How many children are on this list?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U73	Thank you. I should have brought those numbers back then. Of course, there is everyone among the applicants for aid, in that sense it does not matter if a person needs a tool. The list is very long, as I have repeatedly mentioned here: Inco products, i.e. incontinent products, i.e. diapers, wheelchairs, hearing aids. The list of aid instruments is very long and there are letters, and there are different queues in different areas. Some tools are better, some are worse. Our goal is, in fact, to have the tools delivered within the shortest possible time. As you have heard of my answers, we are talking more and more about the rental. In fact, we see the need for more companies on the market to borrow aids, in particular technical aids, wheelchairs, crutches, aids that a person temporarily needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U74	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U75	Madam President, please. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! The circle of persons who are entitled to preferential conditions is wide and the target group is growing as age and needs change. According to social security data, there were 133847 people with disabilities at the beginning of this year. Three years ago, this figure was 118365. All children and older people are also entitled to preferential technical aids, and the number is already close to 300000. On 1 January 2012, there were 404525 pensioners in Estonia, and compared to their share of population statistics, it is practically 30.2%. Talking about large numbers of both money and recipients of the service seems so simple and seems to be in order. However, if we consider that many people in Estonia have already been deprived of the help they receive under the favourable conditions provided for by the law from July-August, then things are not okay. These people's normal and decent lives are disturbed. In addition to the committees of rural governments that distribute aids, there are also local authorities under great pressure, because many people need help by purchasing a non-preferential aid instrument, such as the Inco product, have turned to the city or the municipality for financial support. After all, a child or an adult in need cannot wait to use the means needed for everyday life until there is extra money. To be precise: to date, these funds have not yet reached the rural governments. There are only money figures on paper, but in fact, people who need aids are not able to get them. Children, people of working age, as well as the elderly, are both financially and psychologically in a situation where they feel that their country does not care enough about them. And if you add to the problem the percentage of the Estonian people's own contribution to medicines, which is the highest in the European Union, you may think that buying full-price aids and invalids is the most oppressive for those in need and puts them in a difficult position, because they also have to buy medicines in addition to the aids. The planned increase in bed and visit fees only worsens the situation of people at risk. The same problem can also be indirectly linked to the long queue of entitled persons waiting for access to special care. These people are today under the care of their own carers, who are literally slave laboring for 15 or 25 euros. And not only those waiting for special care, but also those who have to cope at home with the help of their own caretakers have put their relatives in a difficult position. The additional burden and effort involved in lifting or other activities there has led to a situation where many of the carers have turned to the municipalities to terminate the care contract. The basic amount foreseen in the state budget for the aid instruments at the beginning of the year has remained unchanged in the last four years, i.e. EUR 5319972. However, compared to 2001, the number of people in need has increased nearly threefold. In the interest of the truth, it must be said that budgetary volumes have also increased compared to 2011. But again and again, we are in a situation where, for three or four years, money has run out in the middle of the year and aids cannot be borrowed, purchased or used. This situation certainly cannot be considered normal. The price caps were expected to be developed by the beginning of this year, and are now expected to be completed by the end of the year. If that's the case, it's great. The organisations of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People have also expressed their willingness to participate in the development of the principles of this solution and we hope then, as the Minister said, that this problem will be dealt with. We thank the Minister for his answers and hope that the problem will be resolved during both the 2013 budget and the substantive negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U76	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U77	The next question is Rannar Vassilyev, Sven Mikser, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Andres Anvelt, Rein Randver, Kajar Lemberi, Kalvi Tõvi, Eiki Nestori, Jaak Allik, Helmen Küti, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Urve Palo, Jaan Õunapuu and Heljo Pikhofi on 2 October. a request for information concerning the management of the State's participation in AS Estonian Air (No 196). I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, Fifteen members of the Social Democratic Party Group have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts concerning AS Estonian Air, its related and future of the company. A year ago, the government approved Estonian Air's new business strategy aimed at creating better air connections with Estonia and improving the international competitiveness of our country. In the autumn of last year, it was also decided that the State would invest EUR 30 million in the company, which would be directed towards the renewal of the fleet, the expansion of the selection of destinations and the strengthening of the timetable. As a result of the new strategy, this year and next year should be dedicated to strengthening the company's economic position and internal restructuring. The company also had to strengthen its position in the domestic market, the Baltic States and Scandinavia. The actual situation has turned out to be quite different: in the first half of this year, the losses of the company amounted to EUR 14,9 million. As a result, the Social Democrats have put to the good minister a number of questions concerning what has already happened and who should be responsible for it and how. What awaits us, or what is the vision of the future, how the company should operate? What is the situation as a result of the weak financial performance of the company and its impact on Tallinn Airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U79	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to correct some of the facts in the introduction to the inquiry. It is stated in the inquiry: "The Government approved Estonian Air's new business strategy in November 2011. 'Estonian Air, however, is a company and its business strategy is approved or amended by the board of a public limited company, not by the Government of the Republic. In the meantime, the Estonian Air Board has decided to adjust the company's business strategy. As regards the role of the State and the Government, the Republic of Estonia took an active role as shareholder of AS Estonian Air since November 2010, when the State's participation increased to 90%. The Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Governor of the shares set two main objectives for Estonian Air. First, to offer air connections from Tallinn to the most important business centres in Europe and, second, to ensure the profitability of the company. According to Estonian Air's business plan, Estonian Air's business plan is based on a business plan prepared by Estonian Air. In November last year, the government took note of the business plan developed by Estonian Air and decided to increase the share capital. There is no doubt that the government is responsible for this decision and I am responsible as Minister of Economic Affairs. If this decision had not been taken, Estonian Air would not have been able to expand its operations and, technically, it would probably not have been possible to make as much losses as the airline has incurred this year. However, the negative result would have been that without this decision we would not have an airline based in Tallinn today, which is still necessary given the Estonian transport connections. In addition, additional economic impacts. In the case of an airline operating in Estonia, it is significant, as I have said in the press, that in one year alone Estonian Air and its related activities have an economic impact of 130 million euros. The Association of Tourists, the Association of Hotels and Restaurants and the Estonian Conference Bureau made a joint statement last week in which they apply for support from the airline based in Estonia, noting that air bridges with Europe are as important and necessary for the life and development of Estonia as domestic transport connections. Now to the questions. The first question: "Is the information about Estonian Air, published in the press, true? " In the press, Estonian Air has been the subject of many claims in recent months, including both accurate and inaccurate. Estonian Air has provided quite open information about its business activities. Estonian Air has also published quarterly financial results since the summer. This was last done on 30 October, when a press conference was held to introduce changes in the company. The information published by the company, as well as the explanations provided by the chairman of the company's board, are correct. Since the subject was widely reflected, I probably don't need to repeat it in this chair. The second question: 'The new Estonian Air strategy allows for the creation of 2 000 new jobs, of which 800 in aviation. How many new jobs have been created today? " First, we need to clarify the facts. These figures come from an analysis of the development of the Tallinn hub. Estonian Air's own workforce has grown by about 30 people, and Estonian Air has not itself allowed more jobs to be created. The figure of 2 000 new jobs mentioned in the question is correct in the sense that, on the basis of the ratio between air passenger costs and the number of passengers employed, the additional flow of foreign visitors due to the hub could in the future employ up to 2 000 people. As far as the second question is concerned, the figure of 800 jobs in aviation is a distortion of information. It was rather a forecast based on the material you are referring to, on the growth of jobs in the entire tourism industry, rather than on aviation. These figures are derived from statistics on the basis of the money that the additional air passengers leave here. As Estonian Air achieved the planned increase in passenger numbers, it is reasonable to assume that the number of jobs this year has broadly responded to the forecast. The Estonian Air business plan was certainly not weak because it was not beneficial to the wider economy and to the tourism sector. I dare confirm that he was, and the airline whose home airport is Tallinn, according to tourism companies, hotels and conference organisers, is definitely still needed. The positive impact of Estonian Air's activities on the Estonian economy can be estimated at 130 million euros per year, of which 70 million euros relate to tourists visiting Estonia and 20 million to other companies directly serving Estonian Air. Estonian Air's business plan did not work out at a higher level of losses than planned by the airline itself. The third question: 'What effect does Estonian Air have on the future of Tallinn Airport, which has a 44 per cent market share of scheduled services at Tallinn Airport? "Estonian Air carried 582000 passengers in 2010, 678000 passengers in 2011, 688000 passengers in nine months 2012, or more than in the previous year. According to the information provided by Estonian Air, Estonian Air is expected to be operating at around 700000 passengers per year if it continues to operate independently and does so on the basis of a thinned flight schedule. This means the same order of magnitude for Tallinn Airport as in 2011, i.e. still a much better figure than in 2010, for example. Question 4: 'Whose miscalculation has led to excessive costs in replacing the fleet and hiring instructors? ' The company's economic activities have been organised by the management board of the company, whose work has been supervised by the company's supervisory board. As we can see, the enlargement strategy contained significant business risks and, unfortunately, these risks have materialised. Question 5: "Did the company's management play a role in the losses of the first half of 2012? " The business plan forecasted the total expected losses for 2012 to be less than EUR 10 million. Losses above this amount can be explained mainly by the materialisation of the business risks assumed. In the case of a company, it is self-evident that the company's board of directors is responsible for taking commercial risks together with the company's board of directors. The sixth question: As your Minister for Economic Affairs, who is also the ruler of 90% of the shares owned by Estonian Air, do you see your own guilt in the difficult economic situation of the airline? " It would be easy to answer that Estonian Air is managed by the board of directors, that the board oversees it and that they are responsible. But I really don't want to answer that. For me, too, the financial results of Estonian Air have been disappointing, and as a minister, of course, I am responsible for the entire ministry's administration. There have been many difficult moments with Estonian Air in the last two years. If the State had not added Estonian Air's share capital, i.e. essentially took over Estonian Air, there would have been no losses in the last few quarters, but on the other hand we would no longer have airlines based in Tallinn. Given the need for air connections for business and tourism, the airline located in Tallinn is not a matter of pride or luxury, but of practical necessity. Without an airline whose home airport is Tallinn, Estonian air connections would be much worse. We have been following developments in Lithuania and we believe that this scenario, despite a certain recovery in passenger numbers, has come true in Lithuania. When we look at the need for air connections, we never just talk about the connection to one city or another. In the case of connections, the frequency is certainly important, i.e. the number of times a day or a week it is possible to fly to the destination, as well as a time travel plan that is suitable for Estonian passengers. It is worth discussing separately whether the financial results of Estonian Air point to some systemic weaknesses in the management of the State's company. The Minister can influence the company's current activities through the composition of the Supervisory Board. According to the Act, as far as is known, half of the members of the Council and the parties to the Minister of Finance appoint a controlling minister. The State Assets Act no longer provides for an instrument such as a ministerial guideline to the members of the Supervisory Board. The general meeting may decide on matters falling within the competence of the Governing Council and the Governing Board only at the request of those bodies. Although it is clear that the Minister cannot and does not generally have to make or control the management decisions of the company, it still needs to be considered whether it would be worth establishing and manning an entity specialising in the management of the participation of state companies, something like that implemented by the Finnish State. The aspect of professional manning is particularly important in this regard, looking at the experience of Estonian Air. No recent compositions of the Estonian Air Council can necessarily be considered weak by members. However, if you ask why, for example, there were no more people from the airline manager's background, then unfortunately, a country with only one significant airline needs to find them abroad, and under the conditions laid down in the State Property Act, this is not possible, especially if we actually need members of the company's board of directors who would be willing to spend half or more of their working time on the board in certain circumstances. It's just the background. I think this is an important lesson that we should bear in mind to improve the governance of national companies, especially those in the country that are in real market competition. Question 7: "What are you going to do to ensure that the taxpayer's assets entrusted to you are better managed in the future and that the economic situation of Estonian Air improves? " The companies known to be under the government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs earned over 240 million euros in net profit on a consolidated basis in 2011 and directly employed nearly 12,000 people. Estonian Air's losses of EUR 17 million are also included in these figures. However, the problems associated with the airline cannot be automatically extended to all companies or other public assets. When signs began to appear that Estonian Air's financial results did not correspond to what was planned or promised, I renewed the Council's membership by adding two people with good management experience and entrepreneurial experience, Erkki Raasuke and Märten Vaikmaa. The formation of the new Council is currently underway. The old Council has announced its resignation, but as long as the new Council is not yet together, they will carry out their duties. I hope that both of these people will be ready to continue in the new Estonian Air Council. Estonian Air itself is currently drawing up a new management plan on how to proceed more effectively. When proposals from the company reach the shareholder, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the government, it is already possible to make decisions on the choices that the board of directors and the management of the company considers to be real in today's economic and market situation. Finally. Aviation as an industry is one of the most competitive, less profitable sectors in the world. Of the world's thousand airlines, few are profitable. It can be said that the work of Estonian Air's new management is complicated, but we think it's not impossible. The plan to grow an airline larger than Estonian Air or the plan to grow quickly did not work. Although the number of passengers increased, as envisaged by the business plan, and the company's domestic market recovered as well, the costs were higher than planned and the revenues were lower. On paper, there may seem to be a simple solution to the problem, so that each ticket could be 10 euros more expensive and the company would be profitable. However, the competitive situation does not allow Estonian Air to apply such simple pricing power and other routes must be sought. Estonian Air must demonstrate that it can be significantly more effective than it has been so far in order to continue operating. This is not just a break for the board and the board of directors of the company; it is certainly clear to all workers and the trade union that, if not everyone makes an effort, it will not be possible to make progress in such a competitive area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U81	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U82	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. To the question of how to finance the purchase of five new Bombardier CRJ aircraft, Tero Taskila replied exactly one year ago that new aircraft would be acquired by means of a capital lease. This means that most of the funding comes from banks, but the planes will be ours, unlike the leasing. It took only five months and the question of how to proceed was that Taskila already replied that the company was not in a hurry to get rid of the three existing CRJ aircraft, the only reason why the expansion of the Bombardiers was not continued was to buy them out. According to him, there is only one bank in the world that finances the purchase of Bombardiers, and its terms were unacceptable to us. What, though, caused this last - minute change in the choice of the fleet? Is it true that Estonian Air supplies spare parts from factories through other airlines?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U83	Thank you. I cannot answer this last part of the question, and I did not even understand it exactly. But in general, the question that you have touched is certainly very important. In fact, the company's board of directors and the board of directors decided to amend it because no agreement was reached with the Bombardiere-producing airline and the Canadian National Export and Credit Agency on the proposed financial terms and conditions. This was certainly one question where there was a real choice before the Bureau and the Council. As far as I have information, yes, the purchase of these aircraft is subject to rather complicated financing conditions, especially when it comes to a company that is not very easy to obtain a loan from the market, and when it was taken over from SAS, Estonian Air was in such a position. I therefore believe that this was one of the most difficult choices before the board of directors and the board of directors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U84	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U85	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! The aviation business is undoubtedly complex and risky, especially in recent years. I have a specific question in this context that much of the current negotiation is like hindsight, but at the same time we must, of course, learn from what has happened. Who signed a contract with Mr Taskila that, although the driver does not perform his duties, he will still be compensated and not paid a small one? It's not basically the way the owner behaves. A person is recruited, given tasks, and if you perform tasks, compensation is paid if there is another reason for dismissal. It wasn't possible to do the tasks here, but even so, the compensation is still being provided. Who made that deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U86	A brief answer: of course the company board. It is the competence of the company board to recruit people. However, since there has been little talk about this in this Chamber, I would simply like to clarify that the board of companies at the time, where some changes have now taken place, has been working very long on the search for the management of the company through personnel companies, because the public competitions did not produce a satisfactory result. This choice was also very difficult for the company board. Today we can say that there was an interesting situation that we should also consider. After all, we have a state property law governing the activities of majority-owned companies, and the company board actually wanted a rather low fee. I am not going to comment here on whether the market was in exactly this state or whether it was a bit different, I suppose it was, I have no reason to doubt the commitment and goodwill of this company's board of directors to find a better solution for the company. In fact, the activities of the company board are very limited by virtue of our law. Ideally, it would have been possible to hire such a man, assuming that he was the best available person on the market, with relatively low basic salary and linking the results of the company to real profits. But what does our Treasury Act say? He says that the management of the company must not be paid more than a certain number of months for a year. If our legal framework had more trust in companies that had to operate in the real market and also in the real labour market, the company board would not be so limited in its activities. It's just an explanation for the background.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U87	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U88	Thank you. Good Minister, can you tell us what the future of Estonian Air could be in terms of how much a country as owner will be forced to expand its share capital in the near future? Is and how does this coincide with State aid rules, especially if the company is loss-making?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U89	Thank you. That's a good question! This allows us to talk about the popular perception in the press that the government is completely free to put money in it, that we are offering the possibility of public competitions, that we subsidise international air connections in the same way as domestic public transport. That's not possible! We were, in fact, already the last time the State took over, but we are now in a very clear position where we need to be very precise about the state aid rules in force in the aviation market. In today's situation, this means that any proposal for a company to come to the state will only allow the state to take decisions in close cooperation with the Competition Directorate of the European Commission to help the company overcome its difficulties. There are various opportunities, depending on the economic situation of the company and which action plan the company proposes. According to current plans, it is a matter of a week or two when a company should put its specific action plan on the table of shareholders, and then any decisions can only be taken in cooperation with the European Commission. Much depends on the action plan and also on the perspective proposed by the company. These are restrictions for the government, and I would point out that, given the state of the European aviation market, the Competition Directorate will certainly be able to hold back or suspend decisions. In other words, we cannot rule out that simply giving money to the company and the idea that it will be possible to bring the company into a long-term sustainable economic position may not be real at all. All of this does not mean that for us the issue of air connections and the development of air connections, given some of Estonia's peculiarities, is not important. This particular feature of Estonia is the need for an airline, which operates from Estonia as a domestic market. In other words, air connections are a priority for the government and the Minister for Economic Affairs; the form of the company is rather a framework and a means to achieve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U90	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U91	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. Has the Council or the Executive Board already signed an agreement with the new Head, or is it the new Supervisory Board to be formed? And when it is concluded, have certain points been reviewed? The press has heard that the new leader's salary is nearly EUR 10,000 less than the former manager's salary, but the question is precisely the severance pay, because the Estonians' sense of justice was certainly greatly affected by this severance payment. I believe that all the inquisitors want AS Estonian Air to go well, improve his economic position and bring us honor and pride, but it's just a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U92	Thank you. I share this desire for justice, but I cannot and cannot comment on precise contractual terms right now. The conclusion of an agreement with the Governing Board is still the competence of the Council and the contracts are usually long. If it is a company in which the State has a share, no matter how much curiosity, our ability to disclose the contract is limited to a certain extent. In such a case, the remuneration shall be public in accordance with our laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U93	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U94	Thank you. Wisdom in hindsight is also called precision science. But if you look back in time and think about the recruitment of the previous manager and recall the bravuring speeches of both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, can you, as a minister, confirm clearly today that the tactics or strategy of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board under the management of the company were driven purely by the desire to improve part of the company belonging to the Estonian state? Or is there a little bit of a passage that maybe the Estonian Air was deliberately trying to put in a difficult position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U95	Thank you. If you look at the Supervisory Board of the company, Joakim Helenius, Heldur Meerits, Head of the Economic Analysis Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs Raul Allikivi, Prime Minister's Economic Advisor Aare Järvan, Member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, I have no reason to doubt their biggest wish that Estonian Air would do well. Looking at many other councils as well, I believe that these are strong staff. I would also point out that the company's losses were planned this year, given the perspective. If you go into the very details, of course there were also a number of environmental impacts that have increased the losses this year. Ultimately, there is nothing dramatic about this loss, because we really need to respect competition rules in the aviation market. It is precisely those figures that we can look at at at national level in answering questions that I have raised here. An airline based on the Estonian market has a significant impact on the wider economy. I dare say that, in the case of the Chairman of the Board, I have no reason to believe that this was what you are referring to, that a malicious mouse had fallen into our vault and had drained it. Absolutely not! I think that there are some things that business still has to do with misfortune, but there are some mistakes here that I think was closest to the truth Jaan Õunapuu where there was a rather difficult choice for this company. In hindsight, maybe we should have taken a slightly more moderate pace. After all, the company was faced with the question that the old Boeings inherited from SAS were unsuitable. The contracts were over, their economic figures were over. The renewal of the fleet was already started by SAS. SAS simply gave Estonian Air part of the Bombardier Agreement and had to proceed from there. Airplanes are expensive and it is difficult for a small company to negotiate with the airline industry. It was quite a difficult choice. The references to Kajaan and Joensuu are, in fact, irrelevant details, which simply provide an opportunity to derogatoryly refer to the company's strategy as if unthinking. It's this place of hindsight. At the same time, it is quite clear that the State took over Estonian Air, as we can see, is also news about SAS today, because no one else was willing to invest capital. We shouldn't have been discussing these things here today, we'd probably be discussing other issues. So here's the deal. I think that the choice of whether to take or not to take -- in fact, both cases are difficult. But I would not imagine that we would not have taken this responsibility in 2009-2010. The second thing about Estonian Air is that if we look at larger airlines, they still have certain capital buffers. If the situation of the company is such that the fleet is completely outdated, empty of the Saabs that fly here and capitalization 0, then the resilience of this company, the ability to work up, stabilise itself, the financial situation is relatively weak. There's nothing specific about this company. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U96	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As a result of the targets set, Estonian Air has one objective: to connect to the business centres. It is therefore, of course, clear that aircraft are needed. As we know, at all levels, as you mentioned in the board, the decisions of the Council that we are going to use Canadian aircraft were taken, and hands were laid on five planes. As we know, there are currently three Bombardiers flying around under the Estonian Air, and there was a rejection of the two at the last minute. I don't think they're gonna change horses halfway. Are the two planes that are currently being brought to court to expect a damages claim, and how much could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U98	Thank you. I've already explained the background a little bit. The company had a choice as to whether to continue its cooperation with the same company. Maybe the financial results would be even worse, we'll never be able to say it. As regards the dispute between the company and Bombardier, this is currently before the Canadian court. The final answer will be given by the court, and before this decision, I have a rather complex comment here as a representative of a shareholder. From a state point of view, since the company has considered the country to be a companion in one way or another, our lawyers say that there is no basis for this request.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U99	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U100	Thank you. For five and a half years, the Minister has such a solid career. But the company is sad. Now, if you look back, where would you say the company board was wrong, and where would you even say the minister did something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U101	Thank you. First of all, you pushed the stage for five and a half years. When I recall 2007, the company had more or less everything, although the effects of the open aviation market were already clear. These effects reached Estonia to a large extent in 2004, many European regions much earlier, we see low-cost airlines and increasing competition here. So, what were we discussing in 2007? We discussed that we are not satisfied with this Estonian Air, that in fact it is still not one of the drivers of economic growth, that it does not create enough connections, that it does not offer enough opportunities. Remember, the time was when it was said that Estonian Air would only carry passengers to SAS in front of Copenhagen, Stockholm and perhaps a little more to Oslo. And actually, it was. I appointed Jaan Männiku as the representative of the Estonian state to the Council. We worked hard to get the company to a more relaxed position even in a situation where SAS had a majority stake. The concern that Estonian Air could not continue to develop was quite limited. I think that, as far as the deterioration of economic conditions, the economic crisis, too, made it difficult for SAS to compete sharply. I guess it was getting to Estonian Air. However, the whole situation I would like to look at is that we are only relatively early in the question of the strategic solution to our air connections. After all, we would be happy if the government had no involvement, if there were a strategic partner who would look at both Estonia and the Estonian market specifically, taking into account our needs, who might have some sort of regional capacity, etc. The main choice made by the state or government, including myself, was still in 2009 when the situation started to deteriorate. The choice was whether to say goodbye to SAS and this company would have gone down or come here before you and say no, we will gradually capitalise this company, we will help them to accept the changes, knowing that the market situation is difficult. It's the biggest choice I've made with the government, and I think it's the right choice. The current situation of unsatisfactory losses is, in fact, one stopover. We need to find a way out of here and give priority to air connections, not to a particular company or to a specific contract. There has also been a great deal of talk in the public about the collective agreement. I really hope that whatever this newer agenda will be, it is clear that the company itself must become much more effective, much more efficient. If we look at the 737s, I am not talking here about pilots or the composition of an aircraft, if we look at how many people there are, given our flight capacity and everything like that, then there are relatively many of them compared to competing companies. It is vital to make this more efficient, flexible. Jaan Õunapuu says that it is not possible, but in fact, the sustainable financial model is also quite complex in this case. Of course, it can also be added that there is no return to a closed aviation market where each country can regulate access, to issue permits when someone wants to fly. That's one. The second conclusion is that this objective consolidation pressure will inevitably continue in aviation. It is our business, of course, to take into account certain peculiarities; I would not use the word 'province' here, but in any case we must think that in this struggle the necessary air connections for our development will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U102	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Let's get on with this. Just a year ago, Estonian Air's business strategy was adopted, which was approved by the government and which, let us be honest, failed. In this respect, I have the question: has Estonian Air made a new business plan in the short term? If not, when will it be, and will life in Estonian Air not go on the way it was until today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U104	Thank you. He certainly cannot go the same way, because the task that we, the government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have set out that the company must offer better air connections to important business centres in Europe and do so in an economically sustainable way is the same. In an economically unsustainable way, we cannot do this. This year's losses show that corrections are needed. Capital reserves are small, so there is not much time to make a correction either. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U105	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. What's your gut say there's still a chance of saving Estonian Air? And if so, what instruments should be used for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U107	Once again, air routes are the most important. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U108	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U109	Thank you. According to the Social Democrats, the situation in Estonian Air is worrying. The aggressive business strategy so far has not justified itself, it could even be said that it has failed. There are therefore a lot of question marks that are about to arise. We certainly cannot overlook the fact that Estonian Air is not simply a state-owned company. The impact of whether Estonian Air is doing well or going badly is significantly wider. This affects the Estonian economy very clearly, on the one hand, through tourist flows, on the other hand, but also through investments. There is nothing to do, whether one country has a proper, normal air connection, can often be a weight language, whether one or the other investment comes to the country or not. In addition, it has a very direct and immediate impact on another state-owned company, where the state's participation is 100%, i.e. Tallinn Airport, which, in the light of today's news or changes, is forced to lay off employees and postpone investment plans. In addition to Estonian Air's situation, Tallinn Airport is also negatively affected by the significant reduction of Ryanair flights in recent times. So in that sense, the situation is complicated. It was good to hear that a new, revised business strategy for Estonian Air will soon be expected. Hopefully, this will provide an answer to the questions raised. Erkki Raasuke, the chairman of the Estonian Air Council, has said that I would very much like to go back 15 months in time and face the opportunities and problems that were then. Erkki Raasuke, who, relatively recently, became Chairman of the Supervisory Board, can say that. Unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who has been responsible for Estonian Air for five and a half years, cannot say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U110	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U111	We are going to the sixth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Urve Palo, Helmen Kütt, Eiki Nestor, Heljo Pikhof, Rannar Vassilyev, Rein Randver, Neeme Suur, Kalvi Kõik, Jaak Allik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Karel Rüütli, Indrek Saar, Marianne Mikko, Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Deniss Boroditš, Kalle Laanet, Inara Luigas, Rainer Vakra and Lembit Kaljuvee on the day of October 10, 2012. The question is about the opening of the electricity market. This is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask Rannar Vassilyev, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give a brief overview of the inquiry submitted by many members of the Riigikogu on 10 October. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, and the subject is the opening up of the electricity market. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association raised the need to reduce home expenses as an important issue before the elections. However, the opening electricity market increases electricity costs, as well as the price of both heat and heating has increased significantly. The question arises as to whether, by making this promise, the IRL was not aware of what was going to happen, or whether it did not care. As a result, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications concerning KredEx's energy saving programmes, how many percent of Estonian households have a positive impact on these programmes and how many people could actually lower their home costs. We also ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications for an estimate of how much electricity bills could increase on average from January 2013. We also ask what the future network service fee will be, whether there will be an increase and if so, how much. We are also asking if he thinks that people are sufficiently well informed about what will happen next year, what they have to do and how this could affect their lives. We are also asking whether and how the larger electricity bills of socially vulnerable families will be compensated and how this could affect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U113	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U114	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear heirs, members of the Riigikogu! There are indeed many questions about this question. I don't read it all out because it would take a lot of questions to read. I'm reading them selectively so you can watch me. The first question was whether the IRL had fulfilled its electoral promises. I will take this opportunity to introduce our electoral programme to the Social Democrats. First of all, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union promised in the elections the 'Home expenses below' programme quite concrete things that we have done and from which consumers will benefit. Twenty years ago, we saw the bankruptcy of the so-called'scheduled economy' system, which ended with a shortage of all goods, including energy, and a thousand percent inflation. Such a future we, IRL, did not allow our voters, even though you have a desire to instill it on yourself and then on your electorate. We promised other things. We offered six steps. Firstly, renovation of the housing fund, insulation of apartment buildings, investments in energy saving and energy efficiency. The insulation of apartment buildings is certainly a central issue here. Secondly, the containment of communal monopolies so that all those who are monopolistic are priced on a cost-based basis and ensure that the Competition Authority, which is here in the role of regulator, has both the legislative and substantive capacity to hold these extremely complex economic disputes and adopt independent economic decisions. We also offered to continue with the home support programme for children's rich families, to abolish the tax on homeland, to maintain the exemption from home loan interest rates and to enforce the law on homeowners' debt protection. These were the six points included in the 'Home expenses down' programme. Last week was an energy saving week. There was talk of energy savings, energy efficiency and many other things that people find relatively difficult to understand. This slogan 'Home expenses down' was born because people find it difficult to understand complex things, it can even be said that depreciation terms that we often use. Energy saving often means living in a dark, unheated house. Energy efficiency, too, is often considered by people to be something extremely complicated. The main way of Loosungi 'Home expenses below' is that our housing fund uses heating twice as much as it uses in Finland, which is far north from us. It's about 90% of homes. Family budgets have the highest cost of spending at home. What have we done? Renovation of apartment buildings has been supported for 24 million euros, in addition, a preferential loan has been granted for ordering apartment buildings, guarantees have been opened. For the first time in spring, private house owners received support for energy saving investments. The Monopoly Restrictive Act extended the competence of the Competition Authority to all heat producers (for example there was a difference) and larger water companies. I don't want to talk about it any further. We know how municipalities have kept the price of water under control. But now we can say that the price of water in Estonia's largest municipality has not risen, which has already left 3.5 million euros in the consumer's pocket. The tax on the land under home will disappear next year. The tax exemption for home loan interest rates is also still in force. More than 1,500 families with child-rich children have received home support to improve living conditions and this programme continues. It can always be said that this is not enough, especially when depicting Estonians as a feeble people, who stand idly by, in an open field, and to whom the government must build social housing and pay constant social benefits. In our opinion, Estonians are not a feeble nation and do not sit still. Up to 45% of all energy consumed in Estonia is used in buildings. People have realized that making their homes energy saving is a good way to save costs. Thus, it is in no way right to look at the matter in the sense that only 2-3% of apartment buildings have been repaired with state support, and there is still a century to wait until the country finds the money for the rest of 98%. Since September 2010, the owners and the state total have invested EUR 58 million in thermal renovation of apartment buildings. More than 500 apartment buildings have been renovated for this amount, with energy savings expected for these buildings up to 40%. This already affects some 40,000 people. But what have you done? National energy saving subsidies are, above all, an additional incentive for those who want to clean up their own house. For apartment buildings with the greatest energy saving potential, this requires not only the will but also the collective action of people. It doesn't always come easy. Thus, at the beginning of the renovation grant, the pace of the renovation of the apartment buildings was held back, not by the running out of state subsidies, but by the fact that reaching consensus, designing, finding the builder and implementing the project necessarily took its time. The second question (I will read the first sentence): 'As your Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, were you aware in March 2011 that Estonia was obliged to join the Nordic electricity market by 1 January 2013 at the latest, so electricity will be bought on the stock exchange? ' As a citizen, I was aware and I assure you that in the referendum in 2003 Estonia decided to join the European Union. In other respects, the question is difficult to understand. Estonia has never been obliged to join a particular stock exchange, but the question is how transparent market price formation is ensured. Estonia undertook to comply with the rules of the Internal Market Directive on electricity in the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. The full opening of the Estonian electricity market is provided for by a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2008 amending the earlier directive on electricity in 2003. In order to establish a fair and clear market price for electricity, an appropriate marketplace, the electricity exchange, must be established. According to the Electricity Market Act, the operation of the power exchange and the possibility of trading in electricity there must be ensured by the operator of the power exchange, who has experience in the organisation of the international power exchange. The requirements of the Act are met by the Nordic electricity exchange Nord Pool Spot, whose trading rules are considered to be the most clear and transparent in the European Union. There is no reason to create a forgery that the price of electricity in the market is bad and expensive and that regulated electricity is always cheaper. The actual market price is variable. The last time the average monthly price on the open electricity market was cheaper than the regulated price in June this year. If Estonia had been granted an exception in the European Union and had not been allowed to open its electricity market at all, the regulated price of Estonian electricity would have risen in the following year, due to the implementation of the new emission quota period, by at least EUR 7 to 10 per megawatt-hour. Perhaps the impact of emission allowances alone would have raised the regulated price to a higher level than the average price on the power exchange last year. The third question: "How many percent do you think people's electricity bills will rise in January 2013? ' Your argument is based on the fact that Eesti Energia's new electricity packages have a basic electricity tariff of 50 to 80% higher than today. Firstly, it makes no sense to compare the current regulated electricity price, for example, with a fixed price for three years, because we know that due to the new rules on emissions trading, the regulated price would also increase significantly from the beginning of next year. Other electricity production costs would also inevitably increase over a period of three years. Since the question started with the price of electricity and ended with the bill, let it be repeated that, on average, the household consumer accounts for only about a third of the electricity bill, which simply means that, in order to calculate the increase in the electricity bill, the percentage of the increase in the electricity price must be divided by three. The actual price increase percentage cannot be calculated without knowing the market price in January. This can be done by consumers who opt for some fixed-price packages, given their consumption. For the remaining consumers, as usual on the market, the price will depend on the market price as a result of supply-demand. Question 4: Was it a surprise for you that Estonian transmission networks need additional investments and are expected to increase prices for network services annually? ' Just because our transmission networks need investment is no surprise to me. If we look at investments in transmission networks, unfortunately, the unpleasant fact is that, in the late 1980s, in the 1990s and also in the early 2000s, we almost did not invest in networks or did so to an extent that makes it impossible to assume that these networks are in such a state that we can even compensate for the depreciation. In addition to making up for investments in networks, there is, of course, a need to make up for some higher investments. Estlink 2 improves our connections to the Nordic countries. In addition, there is a need to build an emergency reserve station, as we will end the emergency reserve capacity agreement with the Latvian core network company and we ourselves must be able to build emergency reserve capacity. It is also necessary to install remotely readable electrical meters. It can be repeated that the network service remains a natural monopoly and that the tariff for the network service is set by the Competition Authority on a cost-based basis. The Competition Authority has its own method of determining additional productivity or profit. There's no point in losing profits. Question 5: "Do you think that people are sufficiently informed about the opportunities and dangers of opening up the electricity market? How does information reach people who do not use the Internet? Who advises people who are not computer users in choosing different electrical packages? ' The situation will definitely get better. While 64% of people knew about the opening of the market in early spring, 79% in summer, according to the latest survey, awareness has increased to 92%. We can see this as a good result, also by looking at the experiences we have had in connection with the euro changeover, as well as other changes affecting almost every member of society or household. The state has so far informed people as follows: Consumers received more than half a million prints to show the market opening in the mailbox during the summer. The state will also issue a second edition, which is more specific in content and instructs people on how to take these simple steps so that nothing bad happens as of 1 January 2013. Summer is an open informative website on the Internet. The bilingual telephone number is open. It is this telephone that should be of great help to those who do not use the Internet. This phone number is 6160160. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has organised an information day in all counties. Information days for our partner non-profit organisations continue. In addition, we participate in dozens of events across Estonia. A goodwill agreement on market opening was concluded with electricity market participants in March. We have individually informed local governments and business organisations, as well as other associations. We're working with national broadcasting. A special edition for housing companies has been issued together with partners. Cooperation will take place with national daily newspapers and county newspapers, between which special publications and leaflets will be published. In view of the above, it can be said that people who cannot use the Internet receive information via national direct mail and the media, as well as calling the national hotline. Question 6: "Do you think it is right that only Eesti Energia can be contracted in post offices? ' The conclusion of the Electricity Contract in the offices of Eesti Post is an additional option for people. In addition, a contract can be concluded with electricity sellers on the Internet, by telephone and at service offices. Estonia Post could certainly offer more options, its service network is suitable for this, but according to current data, no other electricity seller other than Eesti Energia has formally approached them. Estonian Post has assured me that they, as a company, are certainly ready for this. Question 7: "Do you think it's right that the Estonian Energy self-service portal offers the first choice of choice... '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U115	Minister, your time is up. Let's get to the questions. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Last Thursday, in the Estonian Express, journalist Sulev Vedler accused the government or the government of choosing the route to the open electricity market. He claims that the government has acted too harshly and, in some ways, has said falsely that most European countries are already on the free market. In fact, this is not the case, in most European countries there are all kinds of subsidies and tax incentives for different consumer groups. So, what's the situation? Do you agree with the view of this critical article that the Estonian Government has acted too harshly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U117	However, I would like to be the lawyer of the Estonian Government in this chair. It is certainly possible to offer all kinds of tax incentives. There have been a wide range of choices in European countries and they have experience in this area with a wide range of taxes. When we are talking, above all, about managing the people and families of social risk groups in connection with the opening-up of the electricity market, which I believe was the main theme of Mr Vedler's article, I think that it is also repeatedly proven that it is certainly more effective to use taxpayers' money if we pay direct payments rather than make tax exemptions, no matter how we call them a social electricity supply. That has been the principle. My colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, has responded here, and I myself have said that we have provided additional resources for income support if there is a need for them. As far as other steps are concerned, it is difficult for me to comment on the situation in all European countries. In my opinion, there was also such a hidden reference in the article that some countries have not opened up the market. The European Union has 27 Member States. Not only in the electricity market, but also in many of the internal market rules agreed in Europe, it cannot be ruled out that not all kinds of cornering and bypassing are applied. We see this in many areas, starting with road transport and ending with the service market. Estonia is still the country that meets the agreement. After all, we have set the example of the Nordics. We are implementing more or less the same market organisation as Finland, Sweden, Norway (Norway is not a member of the European Union), Denmark. I think they're pretty good examples for us. In a way, it gives certainty. The market is the best we have so far, at least as far as I know. With regard to the various exceptions and concessions, I think that the real offer and availability of direct payments is much better than if we were to make tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U118	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U119	Thank you. You have decorated the term 'home expenses' here quite selectively. As a homeowner, how do you feel about whether the home expenses of Estonian people have gone down and whether or not they will do so in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U120	I certainly did not define this concept selectively. You're poking me on this slogan. I think your slogan was a "new start." What is new here and where is the beginning here? Is the fact that you're sitting there with your hand on your shoulder a start, or is it new? Well, it's not. Same Vassilyev, same Ossinovsky. There's nothing new and there's no beginning. I do not think this is a proper political debate. I understand the criticism of our electoral programme, and I must admit that, for example, our constituents do not see a problem here. But we worked hard to make this idea 'Home expenses down' clear to our voters. In particular, during the election campaign, we worked hard to engage in discussions with our competitors. Competitors usually promised us colored butterflies. The pre-election debate was that some offered colored butterflies, but we talked about the call to the people of Estonia who are, to a large extent, homeowners. We drew attention to the huge problem of high heating costs and pointed out that something needs to be done together so that this big issue can be resolved within a reasonable time. We didn't allow colored butterflies. We promised that we would try to motivate landlords and landlords to invest in their homes so that they would pay less for heating. Isn't that something patriotic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U121	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U122	Thank you! Minister, you're losing it! I was wondering if we'd promised colored butterflies. But I ask question No 10, you can look up the paper: do you intend to take action and what measures, namely, to alleviate the loss of livelihood caused by the rise in electricity prices for vulnerable families? To my comment, you really seem to believe that you are raising the price in order for people to be obliged to start investing in their homes. The problem wasn't that acute before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U123	Thank you. By the way, it was. It's been sharp from the beginning. I think, having made these laws myself, it's been sharp since the 1990s. In fact, there was a lot of talk about it then, because then the reality became clear to us: in Soviet society, transport and energy were almost free, they only paid a little, but that time was hopelessly over with the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia. From that moment on, the question also arose: If a person becomes the owner of his or her dwelling, how can he or she use it in a prudent manner? The understanding that we can simply heat the outside air using ever-increasing fuel, which is still determined by world prices, must disappear. We have not been able to take a clear view in society that this problem must be resolved in one way or another, which is that Estonia is unique and 97% of our housing fund belongs to private individuals. It's a reality. This problem must be resolved. We have often missed the questions of housing and have not wanted to face it all, but I think the time has long come. As regards the tenth question of inquiry and energy saving programmes, I think we should complement them further. Of course, the question is, if there is an apartment building, where there is a family that is difficult to cope with and who is unable to perform their duties in the building management company, what to do. But how should we react? There has been much talk here about older people who have no motivation to invest. How can we overcome this obstacle? In the case of real-life obstacles, it is also possible for the country to meet with some of its solutions. I am pleased that the programme for apartment buildings is also in the next state budget, I hope, minimally covered by EUR 10 million. As far as electricity prices are concerned, we talked about the possibility of providing aid to families that are more difficult to cope with through direct payments and social benefits. I would also not underestimate the fall in renewable energy tax by 20% next year, on which the government has proposed to the Riigikogu. This is an important step, and the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed it today. However, as a representative of the initiator, I had a slight problem. Looks like there's time to process this bill. I have a very big request that members of the Riigikogu in their political groups encourage this bill to proceed quickly so that we can adopt it as a law before the electricity market opens up. We really want to show that the final electricity bill can be influenced by the renewable energy charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U124	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U125	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You talked nicely about how we should create motivating conditions for renovating a housing fund. You also talked about the difficulty of investing in housing funds in certain vital cases, when people are struggling to cope. You also said that the government should find solutions of some kind. Last week, there was a draft for the Socialists and non-attached MPs, which would have slightly eased the lives of beneficiaries of income support, who have to pay a renovation fee that does not count as an inevitable cost when applying for income support. Why did the IRL Group not support this good draft, which should be in line with what you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U126	Thank you. I say quite sincerely that it is very difficult for me to say this on behalf of the group. I assume that this bill has also been in the government, and we have shaped our position. But you have tabled quite a number of drafts on this subject. In essence, it is quite difficult for me to say something, because I do not know exactly what draft we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U127	Dear colleagues, a question can be asked in response to an inquiry. Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U128	There is a strong impression that the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica did a thorough study before the elections, which people want to hear and what their main concerns are. It turned out that the rise in home expenses really was on many hearts, and consequently it was decided to allow these costs to decrease, regardless of how this promise could actually be fulfilled. As far as I can see from the explanations provided by the good minister when he tried to fill in the reduction in home expenses in this remote control, it seems that it would probably have been a more linguistically correct promise: 'Take your own home expenses down'. But that wasn't allowed at the time. All of this is quite worrying for the social democrats and certainly for everyone who has a home. It seems that the state is trying to distance itself from opening up the electricity market and the related one, leaving responsibility primarily to consumers and providers (how these consumers and providers find each other) and similarly to the so-called free market (how all these self-flow routes are going). Several websites have emerged that are independent of suppliers and should help people to choose electricity packages, i.e. to carry out the tasks of the state. Several of their makers have said that creating these pages has been extremely difficult and laborious. They were not given the impression that the State had promoted their activities; rather, they had the opposite impression. It's very sad. Similarly, we have concerns that the amount for income support will decrease by 15% in the next year's state budget. The explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act states that the number of recipients of income support should decrease next year. The fact that electricity prices are rising and consequently the support needed to cope could grow in the same way does not count from the explanatory memorandum. A great deal of emphasis has been placed on energy-saving programmes under this very theme of home spending. But if we look at Estonian households that have benefited from this programme, then their number will remain just a few percent. So the majority of households have not been relieved of this increase in energy prices. Finally. After moving around Estonia, I dare say that people who have a clear idea of what will happen next year, what kind of electricity package to choose in the open market, how new prices will affect each individual's wallet specifically, and what is the optimal decision, are very few, they make up a very small part of the Estonian people. Even so far, people have not understood exactly how these home expenses have decreased or are starting to decrease. We want not only to criticise but also to be constructive. In answer to the question of what we have done then, the Social Democrats are organising seminars in Estonian cities on how people should behave in an open market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U129	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Evgeni Ossinovski, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Since I was unable to clarify my question, I just wanted to remind the Minister with a brief reply of the draft that was being discussed in this Chamber last week. As we know, the costs of renovating housing, including apartment buildings, cannot be included in the costs that are currently unavoidable when applying for income support. This clearly places those members of housing associations receiving income support in a very difficult situation. The Minister said that we need to create the most motivating system possible for people to invest more in housing funds, and at the same time concrete measures should be provided for people who are struggling to cope. To this end, we had a very specific proposal. To remind the Minister that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supported this draft, but it was not supported by the government. In this context, my question was that if this issue is so important to the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica, why did the members of the IRL Group not support this draft in this Chamber, but voted exactly as the government said. I think this question was rightly addressed to the vice-chairman of the IRL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U131	Minister, if you wish to participate in the negotiations, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U132	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a couple of lines. I will start with Mr Vassilyev's speech. Of course, people have to clean up their own homes. You tried to rephrase our slogan as follows: 'Take your own home expenses down'. Yeah, 'Home expenses down' is a call for people to clean up their homes. Now there is a question of what can be done by the state and what can be done by the government. I dare say that the support programmes that the country has launched are quite significant. There is also a completely different view of the world. By the way, from time to time, I hear in discussions the opinion that the country should not be interested in people's homes and the conditions under which people live. I don't share that approach. Given the size of this task, you might ask what we've done. I am not going to read all of this again, but I am going to say that there is a EUR 30 million support programme from which we will pay support from 15% to 35% of the cost of a renovation project, although some world views might suggest that this should not be done. We have offered a "credit resource" cheaper than the loan available on the market, providing public resources for this purpose. 90% of us have supported the preparation of apartment building renovation projects to 90%! In order for housing associations to get through this neck of the bottle. This initiative is often behind the fact that there is no project, there is no understanding of what this project may be like for one house or another, etc. Four million euros is for small houses. This is exactly the same support programme. We are now faced with a choice of how to proceed with this support programme. Another year and a half ago, everyone was skeptical that housing associations would not come with it anyway. But what's there to deny, in the end, it's like it's gotten away from a rock, and the interest in it has grown considerably. In other words, this programme of EUR 30 million is actually covered by applications. We have found a solution in the government and in the state budget next year we have offered a programme of EUR 10 million. We report that the option for the next six years will be the sources of funding for the next European Union. It's going to take a pretty serious discussion. I also call on the Socialists to contribute to a broader consensus in this Chamber. Once again, there is a very'reasoned' notion that a person's home, whether in a private house or in an apartment building, is only his concern. But since I think this concern is so great, it has long been a social and public concern. Therefore, we must implement these programmes. I have more or less a vision of how much resources could be needed to support all the owners fairly and reasonably. It is likely that all apartment buildings existing in Estonia would be renovated, it is quite difficult and somewhat impossible to achieve. 10% of our housing fund probably does not deserve to be renovated and there is no demand for 20% of our housing fund. Consequently, it is 2014. It is necessary to achieve this possibility to move forward with the core programme. It must be supported by other measures. These are the promises of our party and the initiatives of our party. Don't tell me we're not doing anything! We are definitely not going to go live in people's apartments; we are not sending members of our party to these apartments. It was one thing. Secondly, Mr Ossinovski's question. In the case of what you have offered, too, there is a point of consideration. There are other solutions. In my opinion, it must be borne in mind that there is a very clear direction to abolish any tax exemption. Let us not forget that there is also a tax exemption for renovation aid when a person invests in his or her future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U133	Mr. Secretary, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U134	Yeah, if possible, one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U135	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U136	Finally, a few words about opening up the electricity market. I agree with that. But I would put it in such a context that there are changes that affect everyone. In my opinion, all of us here would need a responsible conduct from political parties to help people who are feeling insecure about the future (which is extremely human, by the way, I too have this fear as an electricity consumer) to overcome this fear. We're just going to the phase where people have to make one decision or another. This decision could not be made in March. People are acting very humanely and are not going to do this nine months earlier. I want to emphasise, and this must be said to all people: if they do nothing, then, firstly, electricity is guaranteed to them and, secondly, the law regulates exactly how the price will develop in the general service. There's no way they're letting the consumer down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U137	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. Questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-12_U138	To perform in a free microphone, please register after my hammer kick! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 6 p.m.
