ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Heimar Lenk, please! Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, I understand that the hearing has begun and we have a lot to talk about, because we haven't seen in a long time, but we respect the waitress and respect those who want to listen to the waitress! The trial has begun, but there is too much noise in the hall. Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Envoys from the Centre Party will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Its text is briefly as follows: On Saturday, 3 November 2012, leaders from many countries met in Helsinki for the Tripartite European Commission. According to the Finnish media, about 150 guests from many countries participated in the meeting, including Estonia, including the President of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves. The meeting was strictly confidential, the meeting place was not published. The former Finnish Prime Minister who hosted the meeting, Esko Aho, defended this secrecy, saying that the purpose of keeping a low profile is to allow a free-form discussion of the persons who are the subject of public attention. The trilateral Commission organises two meetings a year, one focusing on Europe and the other on world issues. A previous meeting took place in Finland in 1996. The Estonian media has been inconclusive when reflecting the event. As a result, several people have approached the ambassadors of the Centre Party and have taken an interest in what took place in this session. In 2004, President Ilves said in the Estonian Radio News Programme that the trilateral commission is an organisation where people come together to discuss serious foreign policy issues. In this regard, we have a series of questions for our Prime Minister, who also took part in this meeting. Perhaps, however, he will explain a little about what was discussed there, what the topics were and what the future of the European Union was seen as. And we have a whole bunch of other questions that the Prime Minister hopefully answers nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U3	Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, we all have the name of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. I think, on the one hand, rightly, on the other hand, unearned. I think that Juhan Parts has too much work to do, and it would probably make sense to separate the economy and communication again and create an additional ministerial post so that problems such as those mentioned in our inquiry do not arise. In particular, as many members of the Centre Party Group have decided to make a question to Juhan Parts concerning the problem of EAS. At the Enterprise Estonia, this is a very difficult time. In particular, the European Union audit has decided to start asking operators for money back, as the basic rules for start-up aid have been allegedly violated. For example, quite a requirement, about EUR 700000, concerns AS Paldiski Tsingipada. Being quite familiar with the activities of this company, I am deeply concerned. If the company were to return this money, it would be very difficult for it to do so and this could call into question the existence of the company. However, if the existence of such companies is called into question, the credibility of the business environment of the Republic of Estonia will also be questioned. We are therefore saddened that such things happen in the hands of the Minister. We've got six questions for him about this set of problems. I hope that we will have a very clear answer to them. And I hope we get those answers soon, because time is rushing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to question the Minister of Culture, Mr Lang, on behalf of nine members of the Central Party Group. This question concerns the Russian Theatre. The management of the Russian Theatre was replaced during the summer under the leadership of the Minister. Marat Gatsalov, Russian director, Tõnu Lensment, was appointed as the new artistic director and Ragnar Siil became the chairman of the Supervisory Board. In order to push through a suitable change of scenery for the Minister, it was necessary to change the composition of the theatre council, which was also done. The Minister justified his decision, inter alia, by the fact that the Russian Theatre is at a very low level and there is no point in maintaining such a theatre. In an interview with the Raplamaa Messages, Mr Lang has said, among other things: 'I do not understand why a cheap and unquality Russian provincial theatre should be held in Tallinn, what it has been like for years. It's bad. The Minister has said other interesting things about the theatre. At the same time, we found out and recently confirmed this in the newspaper Äripäev's sister newspaper Delovõje Vedomost, that under the leadership of former leader Svetlana Janchek, the theatre achieved considerable economic success. Visitation increased by 45%, self-income increased by 10% and accounted for 40% of the total income base. Employees' wages increased by 7%, etc. That's where our questions are. There's six of them. Among other things, we want to know what the Minister was on, assessing the level of the Russian Theatre. The final question, however, is what will happen to the little cabin in the theatre yard that belonged to the corporates before the war and now belongs to the theatre. As far as we know, its fate has been burning passions in the Ministry of Culture for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U7	Eldar Efendiev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you an inquiry aimed at the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. In a sense, both yesterday's debate and the first wish of our Committee on Financial Affairs are involved in this. The inquiry was not only signed by the middle party, it is also a matter of interest for the Socialists and just the Democrats among us. On 9 September 2010, the Government of the Republic approved the National Action Plan on Ida-Viru County for 2010-2014, which offers solutions to problems in Ida-Virumaa. This document made it an obligation for ministries to take account of the objectives and tasks of this action plan when drawing up budgets. It was also agreed that, at least once a year, the Minister for the Interior and Regional Affairs would provide information on the implementation of the Action Plan at the meeting of the Cabinet and make proposals for the renewal of the Programme. At the same time, the Regional Minister was tasked with preparing, in cooperation with other ministries, regional-based measures and actions for the use of funds from the European Union's financial perspective 2014+. Already in this year's state budget procedure...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U9	Good co-worker, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U10	We have four questions about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U11	Please let me know what you're asking! Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U12	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I and eight other members of the Central Party Group will welcome you and Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal, to question. The issue of questioning is the control of security authorities. A number of research and research, articles and specific cases written in Estonia on issues concerning the legality of surveillance activities over the last few years point to the topicality of the issue of the legality of surveillance activities. A number of cases have become public, such as suspicions of corruption in relation to officials from surveillance agencies, which received a lot of media attention, and illegal surveillance by intelligence authorities. All of this refers to the importance of monitoring the legality of surveillance activities. The existing control mechanisms are formal and their effectiveness has been repeatedly criticised. More critical comments have been received in the area of criminal intelligence. Discussions have been carried out on the intrinsic boundaries of surveillance activities, expansion of surveillance activities, real necessity, danger, formal control of efficiency and other issues. There is actually no effective and systematic control of security authorities in Estonia. The European Court of Human Rights has recognised that allowing the secret surveillance of persons, which is characteristic of a police state, can only be tolerated under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to the extent strictly necessary for the protection of democratic institutions. In the same judgment, the European Court of Human Rights states that surveillance activities are necessary under exceptional conditions in a democratic society in the interests of national security and prevention of disorder or crime. The aim of the inspection of security authorities must be to prevent abuses and violations and to ensure a balance between the protection of fundamental human rights and national security. On this point, we have five questions for Minister for Justice, Kristen Michal, in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U13	Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I and nine other members of the Centre Party Group have a question for Minister Pevkur. This is about the Nursing Clinic in Õismägi. A nursing clinic was opened in the summer in Õismägi. At the same time, the orchestra and champagne opened up with great pride, and I was there and consumed one and the other. Everything was very festive. In the event of opening, the Government of the Republic promised that, as EUR 3.1 million of European Union money was buried there, further financing would be secured. Now, the story is so far away that this funding doesn't seem to be anywhere. The party's over, and what happens next? Do we have to close this clinic now, and the people can be fooled again, just as they have repeatedly done before? In any case, we are frustrated and the people of Haaberst are frustrated and asked me to make an inquiry. We have the following questions. When and to what extent does Haaberst's nursing clinic receive funding? If medical institutions are built with the approval of the State, will they not be financed with the approval of the same institutions? And at all, if the Health Insurance Fund doesn't sign a contract, how will the Government of the Republic make up for these expenses? Will it really end again with the fact that, once the orchestra is quiet and champagne is drunk, EUR 3.1 million must be returned to the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U15	Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U16	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will refer the inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The subject is an increase in visit and bed pay and another delay in raising unemployment benefit. As we know, the Minister of Social Affairs, Pevkur, has come forward that, since doctors and nurses need to get paid, this money must be taken from somewhere and he believes that patients should be asked for a higher visit and bed pay. For the same reason, he believes that the increase in unemployment benefit should be postponed. A bill of this kind was recently brought to this hall. Accommodation and visit fees are increasing significantly: the visit fee is EUR 5 and the bed-day fee is 2.50. The Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Health Care Professionals' Association and the Estonian Hospitals' Association have confirmed that this is purely wrong, because the advance agreement on ending the strike stated very precisely where the necessary money came from. It was supposed to come from the Health Insurance Fund and the state budget. So the Minister's statements are wrong. The Doctors' Association says that if this doesn't end, they won't sign the minutes of goodwill and cooperation. They don't think it's right that they want to take that money out of the patient's pocket. We have a number of questions here. Why is there still a need to increase the pay for visitation and bedtime if the undistributed profits of the health insurance fund have not been introduced? Why is the growth in long-planned patients' ownership of the strikers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U17	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U18	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address the question of the members of the Central Party Group to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. A little more than a year ago, on 17 October 2011, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts responded to an inquiry in this hall, in which we wanted to know on what basis Nordecon AS and Ramboll Eesti AS were involved without public procurement to investigate the use of oil shale ash in the construction of roads, of which the European Commission's funding was 1.1 million euros, the co-financing of the Road Administration 700000 euros, the financing of Eesti Energia 400000 euros and Nordecon's own financing of 400000 euros. Of course, we raised questions about Nordecon's very good business: in addition to its EUR 400000 project, a further 2.2 million of taxpayers' money was received. After all, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have repeatedly confirmed in this Chamber that European Union taxpayers' money is also budget money. We heard from the Minister's replies that the Estonian Energy Council knows nothing about participating in the project, the decision was made by the project manager and the management board may have known about it. Since many things have happened in the past, such as the trouble with the administration of the Road Administration, which forced the head of the agency to leave, and the problems of EAS in channelling funds for the European Union, we have raised questions. For example, what was the role of the former Head of the Road Administration in the decision-making process of this project now? Inquiries have a number of other questions to find out how successfully this money has now been used in a year and whether everything is as well as the Minister claimed a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U19	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, is very timely. During the debate on the state budget, people often talk about where to find the sources of cover and how to get money into the state budget. At the same time, while the tax on waterways charged from ships is increased up to six times, it turns out that Estonia has not applied a tax at all to heavy goods vehicles. The directive of the European Parliament and of the Council allows this to happen, and Estonia is an exceptional country that does not use it. The introduction of a toll is recommended in the European Union, and no such tax has been introduced in Estonia. As a result, a number of heavy goods companies have been concerned that our companies have been placed in an unequal position compared to other companies. The heavy duty in Estonia applies only to vehicles registered in the Estonian Traffic Register. However, Estonia will not collect a number of tax money for which the infrastructure situation could be improved. The subject is, for example, about EUR 7 per day in Lithuania, EUR 8 per day in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, and EUR 14 per day in Hungary. Some countries also use tolls based on the distance travelled. In Germany, the Euro 3 motor vehicle is subject to EUR 0,224 per kilometre and EUR 0,155 per kilometre for the Euro 5 motor. Freight transport companies using heavy goods vehicles have also ordered their drivers to avoid refueling in Estonia, as fuel is considerably more expensive in Estonia. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. Why has Estonia decided not to impose tolls on heavy goods vehicles? How much tax money is not collected in Estonia? Jne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U21	Now please to the Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been major and difficult problems with aviation in Estonia recently. This question, which I am now presenting on behalf of the 20 members of the Central Party and the Social Democratic Party Group, is about the perspectives of South Estonia and Tartu Airport. Last year, with the support of European Union funds, the modernized and restored Tartu Airport celebrated its 65th birthday. Tartu and other South Estonians are quite convinced that air traffic has a very important role to play in the development of Tartu and South Estonia in general. The development of Tartu Airport is essential to ensure the progress of the city and the entire region. In particular, there is a place at Tartu Airport that works as a train station for Riga, Tallinn and Helsinki Airport, and a great deal of money has been received and spent by the European Union. Very many well-known people have worked hard to develop this airport, even Jaan Õunapuu or the mayor of Tartu, later Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Andrus Ansip and former Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Edgar Savisaar. Now it is said that it is no longer reasonable to keep this airport alive. There's a lot of reasons. One of them, theoretically, is that in today's Europe one airport per region with a radius of 200 km is sufficient. It is sometimes forgotten that if Tartu is really closer to Tallinn than 200 km, then there is no other South Estonia. That is why our questions about this problem arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U23	Now, please, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and nine other members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. The content of the enquiry is the establishment of a pet register. A number of meetings between animal welfare associations, municipalities and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture have brought up a reduction in the number of stray animals and that a pet register should be established under the Ministry of Agriculture and the obligation to mark and register dogs and cats with microchips should be imposed. Currently, it is the responsibility of local authorities to keep records of pets, and it is not prescribed that pets should also be labelled. As usual, it gets caught up in a lack of money. That is where we have four questions. The Ministry of Agriculture claims that EUR 131000 is missing. How long, then, will such a situation last? Municipalities have become, in fact, an additional obligation to keep records of pets, and this is not like the task they should be carrying out. We very much hope that the Ministry of Agriculture, or their administration, has such competence that they can resolve it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U25	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U26	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 13 members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, and this is about reducing home expenses. A little over 1.5 years ago, before the last Riigikogu elections, I conducted a competition in which I asked for the most stupid election ad. The choice, of course, was made by the real-timers. It was unprecedented that the absolute majority pointed the finger at the same ad: these famous slogans that down 50%, tame the monopolies and lower the price of electricity etc. Then it seemed like such a mistake that, well, everything happens before the election. Now the ads from those places where they used to hang have already been taken away. But I got a letter from my voter last week, or I don't know if he was my voter, but that person was curious about where he's gonna get those who promised him all this. How can we talk specifically to Mr Juhan Parts? He had rather simple questions, which I will also pass on: which is covered by this 50% election advertisement, which monopolies managed to tame, how many percent will be reduced next year's renewable energy fee on the consumer's electricity bill. Let's hope the Minister gives them an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U27	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 18 Group of the Social Democratic Party and Centre Party and the Democratic Group of Ambassadors, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimpus. The Hunting Act entered into force on 1 March 2003. The Ministry of the Environment has had ten years to deal with the creation of hunting areas and the organisation of hunting grounds in accordance with the requirements of the Hunting Act. Consequently, hunting areas complying with the requirements of the Hunting Act must be established and the hunting grounds organised by 1 March 2013 at the latest. The main problems arising from the arrival of the deadline 1 March 2013 are that, based on the provisions of § 65 of the Hunting Act, 64 rental hunting areas will disappear on 1 March 2013 according to the current status. This is because for ten years the Ministry of the Environment has been unable or unwilling to carry out the organisation of hunting grounds and the formation of hunting areas in accordance with the requirements of the Hunting Act. Authorisations issued for the use of the temporary lease area shall cease to be valid. There is a very clear risk that more than 685000 hectares of hunters will be excluded from hunting activities. Consequently, we have five questions for the Minister, to which we ask answers and explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U29	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Lauri Laas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Centre Party Group are concerned about the conservation of Estonian fish stocks and therefore submit an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment, Mrs Pentus-Rosimitud. The content of the inquiry is cheap Chinese fishing nets. In Estonia's coastal areas, fishing is a traditional activity with which Estonian people have been able to get food on the table and earn a living for hundreds of years. The decline in fish stocks has made the situation of a large number of coastal fishermen difficult. The victims are honest fishermen who follow the rules and respect the sales restrictions imposed. Unlike Estonia's neighbouring countries, we are allowed to sell Chinese fishing nets and use them for fishing. These are cheap, low-quality nets used by unauthorized predators, as well as professional fishermen who catch traps with smaller mesh sizes than permitted, and also more traps than permitted. As China's fishing nets are cheap, the financial risk for the transgressors is several times lower than for those who catch expensive and high-quality nets. If there is a risk of being caught, the cheap nets will simply be left in the sea, where they will not decompose, but they will continue to fish, thus damaging fish stocks for a very long time. That is why these networks are banned in neighbouring countries. Fishermen estimate that at least 30 to 40% of the nets remain at sea. Enn Keeman, Chief Inspector of the Western Region of the Environmental Inspectorate, has pointed out in a comment published in the Maavaleht on 3 May 2012 that about 1000 gill nets are taken out of the sea bordering Pärnu county alone each year. This also leads to five questions for the Minister for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U31	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, we want to continue the debate on the 'Tartu Tartu has been specifically mentioned since the beginning of this century. The shipping line has been expected to provide effective support for the development of tourism both here and there on the Peipsi side. Already in 2000, after a trial trip, the line was allowed to be opened by the end of the summer. We have heard similar hopeful cheers over the years. For example, Eesti Päevaleht declared in May 2002: 'Tartu was the starting point for shipping in July. ' Tartu Postimees had news in November 2004: 'Tartu was able to start shipping. " Eight years ago, there was a reason to cheer, for the Russian Minister of Transport authorised the opening of the border inspection post at Storožinets. In January 2007, Delfi wrote: "The Tartu can be taken by ship to Pihkva already in the spring. " In December 2008, the Russian government reopened the ports of Pihkva and Storožinets, and the Southern newspaper then wrote in July 2009: "Is Estonian-Russian shipping finally coming? ' On the Estonian side, nearly 1.2 million have contributed to this project, which already in 2003 built a floating border crossing point for the ferry traffic in Tartu. Half of the money spent on the construction of the border crossing point was provided by Enterprise Estonia, the Estonian Foundation for the Development of Inland Waterways added to the second half. In this regard, we have three pertinent questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U33	Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U34	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Mr Parts. This concerns the completion of the development plan for the Estonian housing sector or it would be more appropriate to say that it is not being implemented. The development plan for housing in Estonia is currently in force for the years 2008 to 2013. Thus, the next financial year will be the last year of implementation of this development plan. The Housing Development Plan sets out the state's activities and objectives for the period 2008-2013 to address current problems in the sector and ensure sustainable development. The objectives are to make housing accessible to all residents of Estonia, to develop the Housing Fund to be high-quality, energy-efficient and sustainable, and to ensure the diversity of housing areas, balanced and sustainable development. The main objectives in the housing sector are based on the need to extend the lifespan of existing dwellings, in particular to prevent the inoperability of apartment buildings due to insufficient maintenance and repair, to increase the energy efficiency of housing and to improve the quality of the housing environment, to raise people's awareness of housing management and to increase opportunities for social target groups to finance housing. The development plan has also addressed the provision of municipal and rental housing for certain social target groups. Underfunding the housing development plan measures has led to a situation where housing availability and sustainable housing have become increasingly problematic in society and will lead to a number of accumulated social problems in the near future. In this regard, we have three questions for Mr Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U35	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U36	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry I will make is addressed to Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, the subject of which is the availability of services for disabled people. We have four questions. We ask the Minister whether the Ministry of Social Affairs has data on how many people are currently in the order of rehabilitation and how many people with special needs will be available in 2013. We also want to know how much the Minister considers it sufficient in 2013 to acquire technical assistance for people with disabilities. On the entry into force of the State Budget Act 2012, nearly EUR 6.4 million was allocated this year for the acquisition of technical assistance facilities. The 2013 state budget provides for only 5.8 million. Does this reduction mean a deterioration in the availability of technical equipment for disabled people next year? It should be noted here that the waiting period for publicly financed services is quite long, but neither can the service be provided to those in need. As people need immediate help in order to restore their health and cope independently, many local authorities are forced to cover the costs of special care services instead of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U37	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, Aadu Musta, Kalle Laaneti, Annely Akkermanni and myself, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The inquiry concerns amateur fishermen. For a long time, Estonian fishermen have been frustrated by Latvian recreational fishermen in the Gulf of Pärnu and Lake Peipsi, who are all too often engaged in robbery and fraud. According to local fishermen, various schemes are used to make tax-free money. This problem has been repeatedly addressed. It is written in the press that environmental inspectors have hit the citizens of the Republic of Latvia in such a way that there are hundreds of kilograms of undersized bass in their vans. Such cases indicate that fishing standards and rules are not being complied with. According to local fishermen, there have been many cases where recreational fishermen ignore this prohibition. Some forms of professional recreational fishing have developed. The current situation is severely damaging to the already critical stock in the Gulf of Pärnu, as well as aggravating the situation of local professional fishermen and reducing their incomes. At the same time, the problem is that the fines imposed on Latvian citizens have not developed a way of enforcing them effectively. Consequently, we have six questions for the Minister for the Environment. The questions have been put to give rise to a more substantive debate on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U39	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Olga Sõtnik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have an inquiry into the environment minister, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, but this time about the situation in environmental education. As we know, there is no environmental education development plan approved by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. This project was completed as a joint work by two ministries already in 2007, but it is still in the project phase. It is constantly argued that the value of education supporting sustainable development prevails in Europe, but there are unfortunately no significant examples of progress in this area in Estonia at first. The subject has been raised several times and discussed at round tables, but so far in vain. Europe is well known to appreciate environmental problems and, for example, supports the promotion of the movement of the European Green Capital. This requires an assessment of existing activities in the environmental field, a responsible attitude towards the environment and a high level of environmental performance. Local authorities play an important role in solving these problems and making urban spaces environmentally friendly. The environmental awareness of the population can only be enhanced by involving citizens and fully supporting environmental education activities. Cities and municipalities, however, have to draw up development plans themselves, because there is no state in this respect, and the implementation of these plans must also be financed from their scarce resources. Thus, Estonian environmental education continues to be project-based and funding sources only local governments' budgets and KIC's environmental awareness programme. Thanks to this programme, Estonia has so far succeeded in promoting nature and environmental education at the level of kindergarten and retirement age population. Now, since 2013, the county programme of the KIC Environmental Awareness Programme is disappearing. The Ministry of the Environment has neither substantiated nor informed the public about the termination of the county programme of the environmental awareness programme nor about the reduction of the funding of the national programme. On the basis of the above, we want to find out what happens to environmental education in Estonia and why the KIC environmental awareness programme is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U41	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U42	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. I hereby introduce you to your inquiry, of course Minister Jaak of Aavikole. We are interested in the subject of learning opportunities for children with special educational needs. Recently, there have been quite a number of problems, including the definition of specific educational needs in our media and learning opportunities for such children. There has also been considerable confusion this year with the financing of education for children with special educational needs. In this regard, we have a number of questions. How does the Minister of Education and Research assess the learning opportunities of children with special educational needs? What are the shortcomings? What are the new plans? Now, new development plans are being drawn up. We also want to know which support structures the Ministry and the Minister believe need to be in schools and who should finance them. An important issue for a large number of children with special educational needs already studying is that if the Ministry of Education and Research expects children to study at least 20 hours a week at the level of the third grade of basic school, which is 7. class, for 30 hours, the Ministry of Finance finances the education of these children for only eight hours a week. In this regard, we have a question of how such a big difference should be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted 20 inquiries. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Culture Rein Lang, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimnud, Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaheri, and Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikikogu. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that tomorrow there will also be a hearing in this Chamber, namely the forum '101 children on Toompeal', I ask you to take your materials from the tables. Amendments to the draft budget can certainly remain on the table. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Dear colleagues, we have ten items on today's agenda. So let's get busy processing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U44	Due to the beginning of the Thursday session, we interrupted the second reading discussion of the draft State Budget Act of 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We will continue to examine the amendments to this draft. We have already examined 43 amendments and we are at the 44th proposal tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. After the debate in the lead committee, the Commission's position is to disregard this proposal. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U45	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U46	I ask for the 44th amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U47	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 44. I shall put to the vote the 44th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 48 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The following amendment, No 45, has been tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is to disregard the proposal. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U48	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U49	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 45. Before the vote, the Group of the Centre Party shall take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U50	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning for me too. We will now vote on Amendment 45. I shall put to the vote the 45th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Let us move to the next 46th amendment. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U51	Please! In ten minutes we will be voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U52	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 46 and before that we ask for ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 46, made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 votes against and 40 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 47. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U54	Proposal No 47 will be put to the vote in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U55	Dear Vice-President of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, please vote on proposal 47 and before the vote, please take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 47th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 35 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 48. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U57	We will vote on proposal 48 in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U58	I ask for the 48th amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U59	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 48, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 34 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 49. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U60	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U61	Please! In ten minutes we will be able to vote on Amendment 49.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 49, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to disregard this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. This proposal, too, was not supported. Amendment 50. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U63	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U64	Thank you very much. Quite exceptionally, we have ten minutes to think about proposal 50.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U65	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached an almost festive milestone, which is Amendment 50, which can also be seen as an equator. [[Let's hear it.]] I shall put to the vote Amendment 50, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Maybe there's no reason to play the anthem yet, but I guess everyone has a reason to pat on their shoulders for endurance. We are moving to the next 51st amendment. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U66	Please vote on Amendment 51. Before the vote, I shall take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U67	We will vote on Amendment 51 in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U68	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 51, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 52. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U69	Mr President, the 52nd amendment definitely needs to be voted on. Before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U70	In ten minutes we will be voting on Amendment 52.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 52, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 53: Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U72	I ask for a vote on Amendment 53! Before the vote, I shall take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U73	Thank you very much. In ten minutes, we'll meet again in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U74	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 53, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Steering Committee has recommended that this proposal be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 44 abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 54. Ladies and gentlemen, please be calm. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U75	I ask for the 54th amendment to be voted on. Before the vote, I shall take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U76	In ten minutes' time, we will vote on Amendment 54.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U77	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 54 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. The following amendment, No 55: Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U78	I would like to vote on Amendment 55 and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-15_U79	Ladies and gentlemen, It's kind of a shame to break up, but that's the end of this session and this week's work. Amendment 55 can be voted in the next session, and this is already a whole new week. Goodbye! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
