ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Honourable guests! We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, on behalf of seven political groups. This inquiry is a follow-up to an article published in the press, which stated that the Ministry of the Environment has made favourable land transactions with a funder of one of the Reform Party. The Minister for the Environment has given no feedback on this article. We therefore give him the opportunity to answer questions in the Chamber of Riigikogu as to why he preferred the interests and economic benefits of the private owner to the opinion of the Land Office, and how it is possible that so many methodological errors were made in the valuation of the land. If the comments of the Land Administration had been taken into account, taxpayers' money would have been saved. Was one of the important reasons why the Earth Administration's comments were not assessed also because the beneficiary is a funder of the Reform Party? How does the Minister dispel such suspicions? We also ask why the Land Administration does not have the power to veto decisions that are harmful to the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U3	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Land Tax Act. The concern is that because of § 4 of the Land Tax Act, land tax is not paid from land protected areas, natural reserve and destination protection zone and permanent habitats from land targeted protection zone. The point of our draft is that the loss of land tax will be compensated to the municipalities from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the plenary session, there will be the formation of an Estonian-Morocco parliamentary group in this Chamber. The team is convened by Sven Sester. Good fellows, let's do a presence check! 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Today's agenda also contains clarification. In the debate on today's item, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will make a presentation on the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U6	We will move to the first item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is an honour and pleasure to welcome Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, as a rapporteur in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There were no amendments to the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' submitted by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu by 18:00 on 1 March. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 8 March and unanimously decided that the first reading of the draft decision would take place on Thursday 15 March of the eighth working week of the III plenary session of the Riigikogu. It was also proposed unanimously to terminate the first reading of the draft and to adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-15_U8	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks for the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft have been received. The position of the commission is that today, at first reading, a final vote of 181 should be taken. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 181 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents, no abstentions. Draft 181 of the Riigikogu decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' has been adopted as a decision. The item is closed. Good fellows, thank you. No further item, today's session is closed. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
