ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Minister of Education and Science. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law of the Defence League, in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Mart Laar; second, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws, in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Internal Affairs Ken-Marti Vaher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, on behalf of the Centre Party Group. The subject is the maintenance of state roads. At the end of February, the National Audit Office published a report on the maintenance of Estonia's state roads in 2006 has been published. The National Audit Office found in its report that the problems already identified in the 2005 audit are essentially unresolved and are still virtually identical. According to the National Audit Office, despite the promises made, the Public Road Administration has not been able to produce a positive development in the organisation of maintenance of state roads for five years. This is still reflected in non-harmonised maintenance contracts, significantly increased costs and poor monitoring. According to the National Audit Office's report, road maintenance costs in service contracts with private companies have been on average 8% higher than would have been objectively justified on the basis of the price index. In total, approximately EUR 8 million more has been paid to private companies compared to a reasonable level during this period. In doing so, the National Audit Office considers that since the requirements for the maintenance of state roads have not been tightened up during this period, the reason for the increase in costs is rather limited competition, which is why companies have been able to charge the appropriate price for their purchases and the Road Administration has accepted it on an easy hand. The state spends nearly 50 million euros each year on maintaining state roads. Studies have shown that maintenance costs are mostly significantly lower than the economic benefits of society. Good road driving during the winter period is particularly critical when road safety depends to a large extent on the quality of care. Consequently, we have six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U6	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry for Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. It has been signed by 14 members of the Central Party Group and concerns the price and internal security of motor fuels. The February 27 newspaper Postimees presented to readers the fact that, because of the rising fuel price, the Western Police Prefecture has reduced mileage by 10% each year in three consecutive years, which means a total of 30% over three years. The same is true elsewhere. The maximum mileage limit for the Prefecture of the North has decreased by nearly 33000 km over the last few years. The police are constantly monitoring compliance with fuel limits, so a car in the area of the West Police Prefecture uses 20 working days a month for every working day can travel an estimated 50 km, which must cover all the needs of patrol, procedural work, police operations, etc. Police officers themselves have stated that because of the lack of resources, community-based police work has been reduced, so the limited presence of the police has led to a reduced sense of security. The presence of the police will undoubtedly discipline and provide security even in traffic. However, 2011 statistics show that 101 people died in road accidents last year, which is 22 more than in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U7	On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Bureau will decide on their procedure within three working days, and if the enquiries comply with that law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Environmental Charges Act, launched on 23 February, commission of the Environment Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated on 23 February, Committee on Social Affairs; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated on 23 February, Committee on Social Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 1 March, Estonia presented its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment and use of satellite navigation systems to the European Union Committee of the Regions and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 March 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 83 delegates were registered as present, 18 were absent. Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. May I have your attention, please? First, members of the Riigikogu Deniss Boroditš, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamm, Viktor Vassiliev, Rainer Vakra, Jüri Ratas, Kalle Laane and Valeri Korb withdraw their request for information on the use of tyres meeting the requirements of No 93 submitted by them on 18 January, to which the Minister of Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, was required to answer today's fifth item on the agenda. Secondly, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science, has requested that inquiries by him to reply today be made on the agenda of the seventh (the funding of the school) and eighth (on the school of Vaküla), which will be raised to the first and second points of the agenda. With this addition, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 81 delegates voted in favour of the draft agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U8	Let's start answering questions. The first question to be heard is the question of the funding of the study building of the Estonian Academy of Arts, presented on 18 January this year by members of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps, Viktor Vassilyev, Eldar Efendijev, Yana Toomi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Deniss Borodichi, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Enn Esmaa, Rainer Vakra, Jüri Ratas, Priit Toobali and Kalle Laaneti. I would like to ask my colleague, Mailis Reps, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U9	Madame Chairwoman! Dear Minister, Dear colleagues of the Riigikogu, On 13 January last year Archimedes Foundation decided to fund the design and construction of the study building of the Estonian Academy of Arts with 12 million euros. As a result, the Estonian Academy of Arts has spent five million euros in preparation for the new study building, which would not have been done without positive signals from Archimedes and the Government of the Republic. On 11 January this year, however, Archimedes Foundation announced to the Estonian Academy of Arts that Archimedes does not consider it possible to finance the design and construction of the new study building of the Academy of Arts. The reason was the suspicion that the Academy of Arts would not be able to carry out the project within the period foreseen for the use of Structural Fund support. The leaders of the Estonian Academy of Arts, via Postimees, announced that they would look to the Ministry of Education and Research while waiting for help, as the construction of the new building could probably no longer be completed in such a situation. As Minister for Education, Mr Aaviksoo, you have said that universities and other higher education institutions must, first and foremost, take care of their own buildings and, first, listen to the backup plan of the Academy of Arts. It's been quite weeks since these events. In the meantime, there have been many meetings at the Academy of Arts, the Council of the Academy of Arts, the Ministry, the Government. As a result, the questions we have asked have perhaps improved in some ways. One way or another, there is a situation where the Academy of Arts has announced that it certainly wants the building to be built on this location and has decided at least to start underground works. In response to this, the Ministry has said very critically that such action is not responsible. We hope that today's round of questions and answers will provide an opportunity for the Riigikogu and also the general public to learn more about the vision of the Ministry, which will become the new building from the Estonian Academy of Arts, and whether it will be built at all, and maybe to hear the Minister's assessment of how such a financing decision will affect the future of the Academy of Arts. This is particularly important in the current situation, where the art academy is scattered on very different surfaces and most of them are temporary rental premises. We are certainly also interested in the position of the Minister for Education and Research and the Ministry of Education on how the situation is to be resolved in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. Now I would like to ask the honourable Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners and other ambassadors! With regard to the new building of the Academy of Arts, so many problems have been raised that solving them has indeed become quite a challenge. Unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that, some time ago, if there was a discussion about the volume of the new study building and the deadlines for completion, this is now a much more serious debate on the sustainability of the Academy of Arts and on the continuity of artistic education, more specifically higher education. But I will be happy to answer specific questions and to dwell a little shorter on a more general context. First of all, 'How justified do you think Archimedes Foundation's decision to withdraw from his positive financing decision a year later when the old art academy building has already been demolished and the teaching is largely done on rental premises? ' Archimedes Foundation cannot base its decisions on emotional considerations. It is the responsibility of Archimedes, as an implementing entity, to monitor the purposeful and rational use of the European Union Structural Funds. The decision can only be taken by the implementing entity on the basis of a specific project and the risks associated with its implementation. Unfortunately, the implementation of this project has progressed so that the construction of the new study building started in the previous century, followed by the first transactions, the partial transfer of the property more than ten years ago, the decision of the Academy of Arts to build the building more than six years ago. By now, however, we are in a situation where there is no building permit. The foundation has no assurance that by the end of 2015, the new study building will be completed and can be used in a targeted manner. And this, good listeners, means the risk that the money will be lost not only for the higher education sector of the Republic of Estonia, but even worse: the Estonian state would be obliged to pay back some of the money. This and only this has been due to the law of the implementing unit Foundation Archimedes decision in the hinterland. Secondly, 'Does a negative decision on the art academy mean that the Government of the Republic no longer values art education in Estonia? ' No, it doesn't. Archimedes Foundation makes its decisions independently and solely on the basis of the law and the legislation resulting therefrom. The decision of Archimedes Foundation concerns the feasibility of a specific project within the existing timeframe and does not provide an educational policy assessment. The Minister of Education Archimedes can and should not influence the decisions of Archimedes Foundation. Third: "Which operations preceded the cancellation of the EUR 12 million financing decision of the new art academy? Was the decision preceded by an in-depth analysis? ' The Academy of Arts applied for an extension of the deadline for submitting a building permit on 18 November. Applicants for such investment aid shall, as a general rule, submit a building permit together with the application. By way of exception, the Estonian Academy of Arts had a maximum deadline for submitting the building permit in the decision granting the application, I stress: the maximum deadline. In the financing decision of Archimedes Foundation, there was a reference that the implementing entity would retain the right to cancel the grant application if the beneficiary had not submitted a building permit to the implementing entity within the deadline. Prior to the adoption of the decision, the reason for and one of the reasons for the failure to submit a building permit, were, first, consultations which asked further questions and analysed the answers. Other risks were also analysed. I would like to add that, following an appeal by the Academy of Arts, I have asked for the legitimacy of the academy's activities to be checked in accordance with supervision. We have also agreed with the Academy of Arts that a financial sustainability audit of the Academy should be carried out. Unfortunately, neither of these processes has come to an end. The monitoring report should be submitted to me on 9 March and the financial position and sustainability report at the end of this week, after the Academy of Arts has been able to give it its comments. Archimedes Foundation, after my request, is to re-evaluate existing risks and continue to take the view that the timetable for the implementation of the project submitted by the EEA is not realistic and, to an even more significant extent, the issue of financing the entire project has arisen in the past. I would stress that the potential Structural Fund contribution represents only 35% of the total project cost, i.e. just over one third. Fourthly, where are the funds originally authorised by the EEA to be used by Archimedes Foundation? ' The redirection of funds can only come to decision after the whole process of reviewing the appeal submitted by the academy has been completed. The priorities of the Ministry of Education and Research are the possible financing of other variants of the Academy of Arts study building, second, possible additional funding for higher art education. This money will certainly be used to modernise the infrastructure of Estonian higher education institutions. Once again, the Ministry will submit the corresponding proposals to the Government of the Republic, whose competence is to change the investment plan. Fifth: Is and how does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to help the Academy of Arts in this situation? ' We have met several times with representatives of the Academy of Arts, but once again: we cannot overlook the fact that the Academy of Arts is an autonomous legal entity governed by public law. Unfortunately, many of the steps I consider necessary, partly even inevitable, cannot be carried out as a representative of the state without interfering with the autonomy of a legal person governed by public law. I am pleased that the Academy of Arts has agreed to conduct an independent audit. As has already been said, the audit results will be available at the end of this week. However, I regret to admit, on the basis of the preliminary documents obtained during the monitoring exercise, that significant real estate transactions and contracts relating to the new building project have been carried out in 2007-2012, exceeding the amounts provided for in the budget approved by the Council of the Academy of Arts. The draft independent audit report contains such lines that both the short-term and the long-term solvency of the EEA is considered to be extremely low and the continuation of its activities is conceivable in the case of additional financing. Under these conditions, it is difficult to ensure the financial sustainability of the EEA. According to the forecast operating scenario, the EEA will face a continuous insolvency over the period 2012-2016. The situation is indeed worrying. These signals, which we received earlier from indirect data, have unfortunately proved to be true. I hope that, together with the EEA, we will be able to shape, on the basis of these objective assessments, a forward-looking development perspective that the Ministry of Education and Research wants to help the EEA fully, especially with regard to ensuring the sustainability of higher artistic education. Sixth: "Can the withdrawal of the EAA's decision to finance the new study building mean that another higher education object is more important for the Ministry of Education and that the funding for the EAA will be redirected? ' Good questioners, good Chamber of Riigikogu and everyone who listens to this question! I have not met anyone among the rectors of my former colleagues who would have denied the legitimate expectation of the Estonian Academy of Arts for a new study building in the last two decades. The Ministry of Education and Research has supported this request. The planned funding per student for the 1991-2012 period is higher for EEA than for any other legal entity governed by public law. The readiness to spend all prescribed amounts in support of the higher art education and art academy is available and has not gone anywhere. But the fact is, building this house in that time on the basis of this project is unfortunately unlikely. The decision must also be responsible in the sense that the results are held responsible both at the Estonian Academy of Arts and at the Ministry of Education and Archimedes Foundation. So, good questioners, I hope that in the near future, learning an independent position will help us to resolve this problem further. I also sincerely hope for the support that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Government of the Republic may need when cooperation at the level of the Riigikogu is needed to ensure the sustainability of the Academy of Arts. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U12	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U13	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman. Good minister! True, Archimedes' decision was based on the fact that there was no building permit at the time. At the same time, as Minister, you are well aware that the reason why the building permit was not available was one of the landlords who, as the press has learned, the Ministry has wished to open a forced procedure. First of all, is this true? And secondly, if so, the Minister had the power to influence the process positively, so that Archimedes could still rely on the fact that obtaining a building permit was very likely. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U14	I met Professor Signe Kivi, Rector of the Academy of Arts last year, I think it was October. The issue was raised of expropriation or coercion, and I assured Rector Kivi that the Ministry of Education and Research is prepared to cooperate fully in resolving this issue in such a way that other options have been exhausted. Some time later, the Academy of Arts applied. The Ministry of Education and Research has passed an important part of the procedures necessary to make such a decision at government level. We have not made this move yet because I am convinced that this is only one and probably not the most serious reason for this problem, which concerns the construction of the new building of the Estonian Academy of Arts on the basis of this project and within the limits of the deadlines and financial resources planned for this purpose. If it turns out that all other obstacles have indeed disappeared, there is both a legitimate basis and a moral right to take a decision in the Government of the Republic on the basis of the law on the expropriation of immovable property. I stress: it is wrong to believe that a citizen who defends his legitimate interests is the only and main cause of the situation and that his spitefulness has dragged the whole process to the point where we are today. Unfortunately, there are other reasons which Archimedes has also reflected in its decision and which have become increasingly clear to the Ministry in the procedures or procedures that have been carried out to date.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U15	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will, of course, understand the simplest question myself. Let us say that some local authorities suddenly want to build an object using European Union money, such as a kindergarten. Before this financing decision is made, he will pick up and demolish the old, fully used building, but the decision is made that no funding will be received. There's gonna be so much trouble! Could you give an assessment of what's been going on? What's that signal? Doesn't it make sense to act like this in the future, but are we still going to dismantle? How would you appreciate what happened to the art academy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U17	I don't want to rush into making this decision because the Academy of Arts and his council made their decision in probably the best faith that they would make it to the desired terminal. They must also have assessed the risks involved in such a decision. Now, afterwards, we can see that some risks have materialised and that my story would sound like a hindsight. If I were to begin to appreciate what has gone well and what has gone wrong, there are enough judges in Estonia without me. Today, we have to solve the existing problem, and I think that is what we need to concentrate on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U18	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. In your last reply, you said that cooperation with the Riigikogu might be needed in the future to ensure the sustainability of the EEA. What did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U20	I meant the problems that may arise with ensuring the financial sustainability of the Estonian Academy of Arts as well as with the Estonian Academy of Arts as well as with the legal entity governed by public law, who has been created and operates under the law. In this sense, he is obliged under the University Act to report to both Parliament and his creator, as well as to the Ministry of Education and Research, which acts solely on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U21	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You said that it would hardly be possible to build this house with the money of the European Union's Structural Funds. I ask: is the Estonian state willing to build it for the money of its taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U23	I think that, first of all, a number of problems relating to the construction of a study building at the Academy of Arts should be solved. As has already been said, these problems are not limited to litigation involving one citizen, nor to the time limit for using EU funds. If these problems are solved and the conviction remains that such a building of study must come to the Academy of Arts, I believe that such a decision is quite possible and also justified. For now, however, it would be premature to make such a decision based on the information we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U24	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U25	Thank you. Good minister! You said you wouldn't want to judge the saga of the art academy if you were smart afterwards. But is there anything to learn for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U26	I guess everyone's got something to learn. I would only dare to draw these conclusions from the point of view of the Ministry of Education and Research and, in part, the Government of the Republic. As we know, the decision to include the Estonian Academy of Arts in the list was adopted after repeated consultations, whether the project could not be carried out in cooperation with the University of Tallinn, for example, by combining money and other resources for the construction of a single study building. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected. The Ministry of Education and Research, not by myself, but by my colleague Tõnis Lukas, brought this issue to the Government of the Republic, where the academy confirmed that they were able to complete the project independently as their own building, without cooperation with the University of Tallinn. In my opinion, at that point in time, the heart should have been hardened and these figures and opportunities analysed with greater responsibility than they were then able to do. Apparently, they wanted to be generous, but sometimes good deeds are punished, and in this case the lesson may be that. That's the way I feel about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U27	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U28	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Has cooperation or association been discussed in the light of the building of the Academy of Arts and Tallinn University of Technology? And if there has been, how seriously can these stories be taken? As a member of the Board of Governors of the Technical University, I have heard discussions on this subject. Has that been mentioned in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U29	After all, it is no secret to anyone that cooperation between higher education institutions can be better and deeper. How far this should go is always difficult to answer and no one wants to go into the subtleties here. The Academy of Arts certainly has opportunities for closer and stronger cooperation with Tallinn University of Technology, Tallinn University and the University of Tartu. But I would like the Estonian Academy of Arts to exist in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U30	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Any requests? Hurry up, please! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U31	Madam President, I am sorry, but I am not a cowboy who pulls out his pit in one tenth of a second. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked a question and received an answer that will be remembered for a long time. I fully agree with the Minister's position, which is expressed in the words that afterwards, as a wise person, I do not want to make assessments. Right! Which one of us wants to do it! And that sounded like the Council acted in the best faith and, unfortunately, without evaluating the risks. Why must standing in ruins surely be wiser than before? Why should it be based not on the best faith but on risk assessment? If anyone doesn't understand yet, I'm talking about upper secondary school classes in Russian-speaking schools, because the same thing that has happened to the Academy of Arts is currently happening to Russian-speaking schools. This means that no risk assessment has taken place. They're acting in the best of faith, but that's a very weak explanation for what's going on. And when somebody talks years later, as my memory says three years ago, Deputy Secretary-General Küttt spoke on the council of Narva, where the principals of schools and lecturers met, and he was asked what would happen if this reform of yours led to a disaster, and who was responsible that, after years, someone would be responsible for it, perhaps someone would be denied a bonus or a job, then it would be very sad. Why, looking at these ruins and everything that's happened to the Academy of Arts, we don't want to be smarter now, but not afterwards? Why risk the future of children before someone really appreciates these risks? Because the actual situation is that, yes, the results of the state exams of Russian upper secondary schools deteriorate every year. And if you look at two graphs, one of which shows that the grades of these students have gone down and the other shows how much teaching in Estonian has been introduced in the same years, you will not be able to notice a completely solid relationship • that is a hundred percent link. So I will take this opportunity to turn again to the Minister for Education: try to be smart on this issue now, not afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U32	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U33	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Rannar Vasiliyev, Indrek Saar and Helmen Kütt on 13 February this year about the Vaeküla school (No 111). I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, Three Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Research. This is due to our concern about teaching children with special educational needs, in an example of a school in Lääne-Virumaa, which bears the name of the Vaeküla school. 113 children study there, 90% of them come from the same county. In 2008, it was decided to renovate the school in its entirety, also to build a gym building. The construction work started in 2010, stopped a year later and has not continued to date. The school's future is unclear. The studies are currently carried out in the apartments in the school canteen building and in Vinni-Pajusti Upper Secondary School. Consequently, we have six questions for the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U35	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. I ask the Minister for Education and Science to answer the question again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U36	President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! The Vaeküla school issue is certainly an example of how things should not work. It is appropriate to draw attention to the fact that such a situation should not exist in the Republic of Estonia. I therefore thank the authors of the inquiry for helping to bring the problems of teaching children with special educational needs to the wider public and to Parliament. The first question: 'What is the Ministry of Education and Research's vision of teaching children with special educational needs? ' We have gradually started to adopt the principle of inclusive education for pupils with special educational needs in the re-independence Republic of Estonia, which means that these children will, where possible, be taught in the normal class of the school of their place of residence. This principle is also laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. If it is not possible to provide the necessary study conditions in the normal class, appropriate opportunities will be created for students in the HEV student group, class or school. Today, there are more than 20,000 children with different special educational needs. These special needs include, for example, special talent in some areas, according to the law. It is estimated that 4,000 children, a little over 3%, are students who need special learning conditions to meet their special educational needs, based on both international statistics and Estonian data. It is estimated that half of these, or about 2,000 children, could study in different classes as well as in local government schools, while half could study in public schools. These principles do not materialise at the same time. To this end, it is necessary to develop infrastructure, methodology and launch many other activities necessary for educational organisation based on inclusive education, as well as investment. For many years, or more than a decade, learning conditions for children with special educational needs were unacceptable. If anyone wants to say that, it's catastrophic. When I was in the same position in the mid-1990s, the most memorable of all were the days I visited schools of children with different educational special needs. The situation has now improved. Many schools of children with special educational needs have been repaired or repaired under national aid arrangements, including those mediated by the European Union. However, the plan does not seem to have been sufficiently systematic and ambitious. This also leads to problems, including the Vaeküla school. When it comes to principles, we try to follow the following principles in the Ministry of Education and Research. First, pupils with special educational needs usually study at the school of their place of residence, with the state guaranteeing places of study at the school of children with special educational needs for students whose teaching requires exceptional and very specific conditions. Schools for children with special educational needs specialize in teaching students with special needs in order to ensure the quality of learning and the rational use of resources. Thirdly, the location of HEV schools depends on the number of pupils with special educational needs in the region, the social need, the availability of specialists and support services, the possibility of moving between the HEV school and the student's place of residence and the developed school network. These are the principles that should be taken into account in the 10-20 perspective. The current network doesn't take them into account. The second question: 'The managers of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, the owner of the school building, stated that the Ministry of Education and Research has decided to terminate the contract concerning the renovation of the Vaeküla school, which means that the renovation of the school will not continue. What are the reasons why the Ministry has decided this? ' The agreement between RKAS and the Ministry assumed that the new conditions would apply in autumn 2010, at the beginning of the academic year. Unfortunately, this was not possible and we agreed to extend the deadline by one year. Unfortunately, this building was not completed for the summer of 2011. The difficulties with the builder have led to a situation where it is clear that the cost of construction is increasing significantly, the quality of the construction is not guaranteed and the continuation of the construction may be delayed due to the litigation begun between the RKAS and the builder. In this context, at the end of 2011, HTM informed the RAKAS that it could no longer count on the completion of the Vaeküla school. As of today, it would still take at least two more years to complete the school. In conclusion, the study and living conditions at Vaeküla school do not meet the requirements and this situation must not continue. Secondly, Riigi Kinnisvara AS was unable to repair the school building during the agreed period. Today, it is unpredictable for what time renovation would be possible. The school building has been standing for more than a year without roofs and openings, litigation between the builder and the RKAS. Thirdly, by analysing the change in the number of students with special needs, we have come to the conclusion that the newly completed Porkuni School, Ahtme School and other schools for children with special needs in the region will already provide study places for students with special needs throughout the region in a few years. As the number of students is now higher than the number of places offered, we will ensure that there is an opportunity to study using alternative study places according to the needs of the region. Question 3: Do you consider today's study conditions normal at Vaeküla school? How long will the current situation continue? ' Under no circumstances can these conditions be assessed as normal. At the same time, the conditions of all students are not very bad at the moment. The replacement areas of Vinni-Pjusti Upper Secondary School have 1. The conditions of class students are very good. We are currently looking for all the opportunities in the region, given the need to ensure good learning conditions for other students as well. The new academic year will be placed in Porkuni school with the consent of the parent. Vinni-Põjusti Gymnasium allows students at the first and second level to study, and for students at the third level, we are looking for the best opportunities to continue our studies in the region. The new academic year provides a much better study conditions for all students. Fourthly: Will the Vaeküla school continue as an independent school in the future and, if so, in what rooms? ' For the time being, the school continues on substitute surfaces. From now on, it will be possible to continue school in three ways. First, it continues to operate as an independent school on the rental premises. Secondly, Vaküla and Porkuni schools are merged into one institution. Thirdly, schooling, complete classrooms with teachers, educational resources and funding will be partly or entirely taken over by the local government or local government association. All options will be considered and the best interests of the children will be taken into account. Fifth: "What about 113 children with special educational needs who are studying at Vaeküla school today? ' As has already been said, the new academic year will provide them with the best learning opportunities. I wouldn't be going into that right now. We have made such a commitment, and we will certainly be able to do so. Sixth: Is the Ministry of Education and Research aware of how much has been invested in Vaküla School since 2000? ' Between 2000 and 2004, EUR 667000 was invested there. The Vaeküla School has been a school managed by the Ministry of Education and Research since the end of 2006, since then the Ministry of Education and Research has not invested in the school, as the school has been given to reconstruct the RKAS. The investments made, as you have heard, are significant, including by the RKAS. However, by making these investments, the parties have not had a far-reaching vision that would have ensured the completion of the Vaeküla school or any other solution that would ultimately have led to a more meaningful implementation of the investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U37	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, A month ago, in Question Time, I asked about schools for children with special educational needs. True, the question wasn't about Vaeküla, it was about Vastseliina School. On that occasion, you replied that no decisions have been taken to date, but that the school network for learning children with special needs will be reviewed. Is there any clarity, or is there hope, of finding out the results of the review of this network? Teachers in schools who are very well trained are concerned, parents whose children are studying there are worried, and the locality is certainly concerned. In answering one question, you said that it was regional policy at the end, because there are also jobs at stake. Do all of these people hope that the children's interests will be taken into account in making their decision, or will the money be the most important?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U39	Yeah. Thinking about this last dilemma over, of course, money is only a means. But, unfortunately, after all the important principles have been agreed unanimously and cordially, someone has to pay the bills. So you can't miss money. I have seen the concept of educational arrangements for children with special educational needs. I have made my own comments there, and I hope that in the coming weeks it will be turned into a public document that will allow for feedback. After this feedback, it is possible to make decisions or negotiate with a view to specific schools. I consider it extremely important that there be a concept or principles first, then a debate on the realisation of the concept, taking into account various arguments: the interests of students, regional policy interests, as well as budgetary constraints and opportunities. So the situation is certainly much better than two or three months ago, I do not remember exactly when you asked this question. This is certainly one of the important topics for the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry is among the ten most politically important areas of this year. As I said, the situation is not satisfactory. This situation must receive a fair assessment and honest plans so that people are not in ambiguity, that resources are not wasted and people's nerves are not trampled on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U40	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U41	I'm gonna ask you about Vaeküla school. If the construction work organised by the building owner AS Riigi Kinnisvara had not stopped, would the Ministry of Education and Research still have terminated the contract with Riigi Kinnisvara AS?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U42	I believe that if these large-scale investments had been fully realised, the situation would be quite different. Even if this investment decision and the construction work carried out on this basis were not the most appropriate one, according to me or any other authority, the status quo has always been an extremely strong argument and I do not think that we would be faced with today's situation. But once again: this is all speculation and it is very difficult to give a completely durable answer in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U43	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U44	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Education! I have been approached by the parents of the children of Keila-Joa Sanatorial Boarding School. Their concern is that many children have developed an individual curriculum and now that they can no longer go to this school from autumn, they do not know how to move on to mainstream school. We don't have a system of tutors. What's the plan for kids who need special surveillance to be educated? Often they can't go to school because they just don't get health, but they don't get pardon in regular school.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U45	I don't think we have schools where children can't be spared. There must be grace for all children. In particular, in order to answer this question, I should be a little better informed and therefore I would not go into the details. It is quite clear, however, that coping with children with special educational needs in mainstream schools requires additional resources and is also foreseen in the state budget according to funding schemes. I believe that, with the help of these funds, it is possible to organise this education in ordinary schools in such a way that it meets, on the one hand, the expectations that parents and the public have, and also the opportunities that the Estonian state can offer today. Surely we must not accept that the situation of children deteriorates.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U46	Please, Mr. Taavi in the garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, Do I remember correctly that the construction work of this school did not stop so much because of the RKAS, but because the contractor found in public procurement could not perform the contract and build the school? And that's where the questions came from about the future and perspective of the school. Is my memory okay in that sense? Have all these messes started there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U48	Definitely. If my answers somehow gave rise to a complaint to Riigi Kinnisvara AS, this is not relevant. It's just that the Ministry of Education and Research is partnered with the RKAS, who's running this whole thing. The difficulties of Riigi Kinnisvara AS with builders are largely understandable. Unfortunately, we cannot avoid them in Estonia for many reasons. I believe that attempts to adjust the law on public procurement so as to minimise conflicts and other irregularities have gradually improved this situation in Estonia. Unfortunately, this cannot be avoided to the full. I would like to stress once again that this speech is not in any way intended as a complaint by the Ministry of Education and Research to Riigi Kinnisvara AS.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U49	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U50	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'm going back in time, too. Some time ago, we discussed the same subject in Question Time and you said that the education of children with special needs must be thoroughly discussed, because the redistribution of poverty will not bring more wealth. Can it be concluded that there are several schools that will be closed during the next or the next year of study?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U51	We currently have 25 schools that are run by the state or state schools. There are a number of schools managed by the local government. However, it must be said that the legislator has not laid down with sufficient legal clarity, and apparently the executive power has not until the end been clear about the principles under which some schools of children with special educational needs are a local government, a part of the state. On the basis of this material, which I have been familiar with, I see that it is necessary to restructure quite comprehensively in order to achieve a systemic solution. The idea that this is possible in one, two, three, or four years is certainly written on the water. I believe that we can be satisfied if it takes place in five, six, seven, eight, ten years, not in two or three years, but it probably means decisions to end schools in the coming years. Certainly, these individual schools, which are already aware of their future, will not be the last. However, the situation is that more than 25 schools are obviously too many, both in terms of the quality of this education and in terms of rationality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U52	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a day of simple questions today, but that's it. From my inquiry, I read that teaching is done temporarily in former apartments in the school cafeteria building. This temporarily, as you can see, has been going on for almost two years. I have this question: do the former apartments in the canteenhouse have lighting that meets the standards? Does it work like order and duty ventilation? Are there fire doors installed? Is wheelchair access secured?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U54	Well, what am I supposed to answer that? To a simple question, you will receive an easy-to-read answer: the activities of this school are certainly in accordance with the law and the legislation issued on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U55	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased to hear that the creation of learning opportunities for children with special educational needs will be very active in the future and new opportunities will be found for them. But we do know that as Vaeküla is, these schools are mostly farther away from the major centers. It is likely that there will be major problems with the buildings in these schools. I have already spoken to you about Helme, but there are certainly questions in other regions. Wouldn't there be any faster solutions here so that the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Finance or State Real Estate AS can find an application for these buildings? Otherwise, we will wind up the Soviet buildings on the one hand and create more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U57	Of course, this is a complex issue. I myself see the future in such a way that, in managing and determining the future of buildings which do not prove necessary for the performance of the state's tasks for one reason or another, the direct organiser would be Riigi Kinnisvara AS. In any case, Riigi Kinnisvara AS should have a picture of the needs and opportunities of the entire public sector sector before it embarks on the path of selling or privatising. What are these options, it is difficult to say as a general principle, but the sooner the complex attention is paid to the whole issue, the better. The sooner these opportunities are mapped all over Estonia, the sooner all information will be made available to the general public, including potential investors, the better. Such general principles are easy to formulate, but in practice we know that the issues of managing Soviet property are far from simple. We all know what rather sad images are opening here and there in Estonia, the former production buildings and the objects of social infrastructure are still available.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U58	Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U59	Mr. Minister! Due to Taavi Rõivas' question, Riigi Kinnisvara AS received its satisfact. As a result of this courage, I will put the question in a slightly different light. You mentioned that the current state of Vaeküla school is responsible for not having a strategy for the development of schools for children with special needs that satisfy you. I ask you this: did the construction of the Vaeküla school stop because Facio Ehitus could not carry out its construction work or because there was no satisfactory development strategy for schools for children with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U60	Of course, it stopped because of Facio Ehitus' inability. If you, a good colleague, meant me personally, it is difficult to offer me satisfaction. The demands have been set relatively high, and not because I would like to be somewhat insatiable and highly embossed, but rather because decisions for which the comfort of the moment is more important than the prospect of a distant future always bring many problems to many people. That is why I think it is worthwhile for us to be demanding when we invest in the public sector, including the education sector, and to make painful decisions. It's gonna get better after that. Investing beyond power is one of the most dangerous paths for the future. Everything seems to be going well, but, like taking over debt is also an overachievement investment in the neck of a millstone and preventing other, more appropriate priorities from being realised. That's why I can't get past it in this podium. The low salaries of teachers, ladies and gentlemen, are, to a large extent, due to the fact that we have put too much concrete into their current and future salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U61	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U62	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have actually answered my question. I wanted to ask you about the connection between concrete and teachers' salaries. More than 5 million kroons have already been spent on the Academy of Arts, and a considerable amount has already been spent on Vaeküla School. They're connected, aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U63	Yes, it is. They're more connected than we'd like to admit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U64	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U65	Ladies and gentlemen, There is reason to agree with the Minister for Education and Research that this is a regrettable example of how things have not happened as they should be. And in this respect, there are reasons to be critical of at least two aspects. One aspect concerns the Ministry of Education and Research, where it was decided to start the renovation of the school and to build an additional building, which the school itself did not see much need for. But, of course, when it was offered, they agreed. One and a half years after the construction work had started, it was found that the school was not really needed in the form it exists and should operate in new buildings in the future. Consequently, the future of the school is unclear. This means that the future of all 113 children is unclear, the future of the whole collective is unclear and, ultimately, the future of the same buildings in progress and falling apart is unclear. On the other hand, there is a reason to be critical of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which is located in the government area of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, you can always say that the builder is troubled, the builder can't make it. In general, my view is that the public sector is actually responsible for public buildings. The way he does it is his own problem. With the help of the same problem builder, very many public buildings have been repaired in Estonia; local governments have done so. Of course, the situation has been difficult, but it cannot be said that this would have been impossible. Real life shows something else. And if we now rely on the idea of the RKAS to better manage state-owned real estate, then on this project, we can very strongly ask whether the RKAS is really fulfilling its objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U66	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U67	Honourable Chairwoman! Good minister! Knowing you're busy, I'll be brief. I just wanted to repeat the thought that when we look at the future of children with special needs and their schools, it is true that, on the one hand, the country has been a very poor host. Our average schools for children with special needs are neither beautiful nor modern and do not have enough rehabilitation tools that teachers and social workers would like. On the other hand, however, we should be very careful if we force the majority of children with special needs into a normal school. Unfortunately, life in different schools is quite different. A large proportion of school staff are not prepared to work with children with special needs in such a way that these children feel sufficiently involved and secure. So we'll keep an eye on the progress of things. There is certainly still much to discuss about the education of children with special needs, and very quick decisions I would recommend not to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U68	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U69	The next question to be heard is the question of 18 January of the 18th of this year by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigas, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toomi, members of the Riigikogu, concerning unjustly detained persons (No 96). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U70	Madam President, you see how fast I got the remote control. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. According to the Ministry of Finance, 738 people have been unduly detained in the last 11 years (2000 to 2010 inclusive) to whom the state paid 31 million kroons to compensate for the lawlessness committed by law enforcement authorities. According to statistics, in 2005, the highest compensation, i.e. the recipient of EEK 369838, was in custody for more than two years, i.e. 741 days. In 2006, the recipient of the largest compensation, i.e. EEK 436600, was in custody for 623 days, and in 2007 the highest compensation was received by a person who was in custody for 657 days and received just over half a million. By letter of 8 June 2010, the President of the Republic expressed his frustration at a large number of detainees whose guilt has not been proven to the extent necessary and within a reasonable time and to whom the State has had to pay compensation for the unjust deprivation of liberty. In the light of the above, the five members of the Riigikogu asked the Minister of Justice a total of ten questions. Given our usual practice that the Minister will read the question before answering, I am not going to read the questions in terms of time savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U71	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U72	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, thank you very much for the questions! I will try to give you exhaustive answers on an interesting subject. Before I go to a real answer, however, I would like to point out that in 2004 a new Code of Criminal Procedure came into force, which substantially changed the principles set out in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure, including as regards arrest. I am responding to the new regulation because today's criminal proceedings in Estonia are very different from the previous legal order. Question number one: "If you apply the criterion of reasonable time, how do you explain keeping a person in custody over two years, which ends with his release without prosecution? Could it be a lack of action or negligence on the part of a law enforcement authority? 'Sustainable time' is an undefined legal term and cannot be assessed unambiguously. Both the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court have stressed that the assessment of the duration of proceedings must be based on the specific features of a particular procedural case, including the seriousness of the crime, the complexity and size of the case. Nor does the Ministry have the authority to intervene or evaluate specific procedural matters, which makes it difficult for me to say whether or not it was a reasonable time in one case or another. This is still the task of the courts. However, it is certainly not a lack of action or negligence on the part of the law enforcement authority in the event of the suspect being held in custody for a long time. In the selection of any restraining order, and in particular when deciding on the need for arrest, account shall be taken of facts relevant to the application of criminal proceedings, the possibility of the execution of criminal offences or the destruction, alteration or counterfeiting of evidence, the suspect, his or her health, his or her marital status and other obstacles. Arrest is requested by the prosecutor's office, but the decision on the admissibility of the application of the arrest is taken by the investigating judge by order, which is also contested. Later, in a case already pending before the Court, the accused has the opportunity to apply for an amendment of the seal and the judge can decide, on his own initiative, to lift the seal if he considers that the grounds for holding the person in custody have fallen. The second question: "What are such long periods of detention? ' An analysis of the arrests carried out by the Ministry of Justice in 2009 shows that persons released from custody in 2008 were in custody for an average of 5.2 months, i.e. 158 days. Arrest is the most serious obstacle to a person's rights and its application is only possible if the court considers the arrest to be justified and necessary and there are grounds for arrest provided for in § 130 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As a result of the above restrictions, arrests can be applied in particular to serious crimes (kills, drug offences, etc.) and in this context, the average 5,2 months of detention does not appear to be a long time in pre-trial proceedings. Pursuant to § 130 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a person may be held in custody in pre-trial proceedings for a maximum period of six months and an extension of that period shall be allowed only in exceptional circumstances, due to the particular complexity or size of the case. In doing so, it is important to note that if, in general, a person is arrested at the request of the prosecutor and under the order of the investigating judge, an extension of more than six months is possible only at the request of the Prosecutor General and with the permission of the investigating judge. The need for an extension of the period of arrest will therefore be assessed by both the Prosecutor General and the Court and the court will then have to assess the merits of the extended arrest at least once a month. The suspect, accused or protected person may also submit an application to the court two months after the arrest to verify the merits of the arrest. Both the arrest and the extension of the detention period may be challenged by the arrested person or his lawyer. In general, however, long detention periods may be due to the complexity and size of the case or, for example, to the fact that the criminal case requires cooperation with other countries, which often takes time. The fact that a person has the status of a arrested person may be added to the complexity and volume of the judgment against him until such time as the judgment against him enters into force. Therefore, the person shall be deemed to have been arrested until all stages of the appeal have been completed and the decision has entered into force. The third question: 'The statistics provided do not refer in any way to the rule of law, as 600 days of detention ended in many cases with the obligation of the state to pay very high compensation for unfair deprivation of liberty. How is it possible that there will be no proof of the need for arrest within 600 days? Have the reasons been investigated? What are they like? ' I must say here that the Minister of Justice is unable to comment on specific examples to which Riigikogu members probably refer. According to data provided by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Justice, there were six persons in total in 2007-2011 who received compensation for more than 400 days in custody. This involved serious crime procedures: killing two people, killing, illegal handling of firearms, kidnapping, beating. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Finance, it can be concluded that these were persons convicted at first instance of whom the decision was amended by the Supreme Court. One of the main features of the democratic rule of law is that a person is able to request amendments to the judgments and orders given against him. And if the higher court considers the circumstances differently, the person is entitled to compensation. Question 4: "What is the proportion of illegal deprivation of liberty in all arrests? For example, in a number of cases, 2000-2010 was absent. The legal basis for taking liberty in 2005. ' Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice doesn't have any statistics. However, I think it is important to note that it is almost impossible to take liberty without a legal basis under current law. A person can be deprived of his liberty only on the basis of a court order or a conviction, otherwise it would be a criminal offence. Arrest can only be unlawful if the person is held in custody, although the court has not duly authorised it. However, since both the detention facility and the prosecutor and the lawyer of the person control the existence of the underlying arrest document, such situations are unlikely to occur. The fact that criminal proceedings have been terminated or a decision has been taken to justify the person does not render the whole of criminal proceedings or arrest unlawful. Since the fifth and eighth questions overlap with regard to their content, I do not think it makes sense to answer them separately in terms of time savings, and I will deal with them together. I'm going to read both questions. Question 5: "How could such cases be significantly reduced? ' And the eighth: 'Have you taken steps to reduce the number of unfounded arrests given these statistics? If so, what have you done or are you doing? " According to the Ministry of Justice, there is no illegal arrest in Estonia. However, the number of legitimate arrests has been consistently reduced over the last several years by introducing new alternative types of seals. For example, the Code of Criminal Procedure was supplemented in 2010 by a provision allowing for the replacement of arrest by electronic surveillance. It is also possible to replace the arrest by bail. The presumptions of arrest and the legal basis shall always be assessed by the court and the arrest shall be possible only if, in the interests of the proceedings, it is indeed necessary and possible. However, the number of arrests cannot be significantly affected as its application is already subject to strict conditions and requirements and, ultimately, the application of arrests depends on the offence and suspected persons. Criminal proceedings protect public interests and we believe that reducing the number of arrests at the expense of public security cannot be justified under any circumstances. The cause of the damages has been the subsequent acquittal of the person in custody, which cannot be foreseen or excluded. The possibility of proper decision-making is an important feature of the rule of law, which sends a signal to individuals as well as society as a whole that the Court effectively protects people's rights and guarantees effective redress for everyone. The Court shall be independent in its decision-making and shall be governed by the law in force, by the evidence gathered and by its inland nature. Nor can it be ruled out that the evidence gathered in the case is not sufficient to establish the Court's inland character and that the court will vitiate the person and will have the right to claim damages for the time spent in custody. Question 6: "Why does the State consider that the payment of compensation for unjust deprivation of liberty is sufficient to compensate a person for the damage suffered? What about the moral damage caused? Not everything can be measured in money, so why is the state not helping to restore the damaged image? " The State will make good the damage caused to the person by means of compensation under the law. In doing so, the compensation covers both loss of income and non-material damage. However, the state is not in a position to make good the damage caused to the person by any means other than the payment of compensation. Since it is not possible to reverse what has been done, the state must find a way to remedy the inconvenience caused to the person. In a democratic society, it is inevitable that individuals must tolerate criminal proceedings against them, as the procedure is carried out to protect the values of society. The initiation of proceedings, the admission of a person to suspect and, more importantly, the arrest of a person requires that sufficient evidence has been gathered indicating the criminal offence and the involvement of a particular person in a possible criminal offence. However, as the proceedings progress, there may be new circumstances which would result in the person's suspicion being lost, and the court may take an acquittal against the person when assessing the evidence. However, since criminal proceedings are, as a rule, legal and the subsequent amendment of competent decisions does not constitute unlawfulness of previous decisions, the State cannot take other steps to restore the rights of a person other than compensation for the limitation of the fundamental rights suffered. The Riigikogu also has a new draft law on state liability, which also wishes to substantially change the procedure for compensation for damage caused by unfair deprivation of liberty, creating opportunities for even more effective protection of personal rights. Question 7: In '11, compensation for unfair deprivation of liberty has been paid by taxpayers at 31 million kroons. What justifies such a cost? Could this be a case of too light-handed arrest? " The Ministry of Justice certainly cannot accept that taking custody is light-handed. I also explained this in previous answers. In the rule of law, people can challenge decisions against them and independent courts and other bodies can amend and revoke previous decisions. In order to ensure the realisation of personal rights and to compensate for the damage caused, it is well-founded and necessary that any inconvenience suffered in the public interest be remedied. The State can make such redress by paying compensation. Obviously, there would be much less cases of compensation for damage caused by unfair deprivation of liberty if the person's deprivation of liberty could not be contested or reviewed. In this case, however, Estonia would not be a democratic rule of law that respects the fundamental rights of individuals and creates effective safeguards for the protection of their rights. Question 9: "What is the relationship between arrests and the loss of suspicions in other developed countries? ' Unfortunately, it is not possible to obtain such statistics without a long and in-depth analysis, and the analysis is unlikely to show the real situation either because there is a legal order between countries and there is a wide variation in the statistics held. Question 10: 'Very many people, including Alexander Kuusik, have fallen victim to unwarranted arrest and detention. Are people at least apologized to them in such cases? " The State will make amends for the person through compensation for both material and moral damage. The court still takes its decisions on behalf of the State and, by a declaration of acquittal, the State acknowledges that the accusations made to a person in the course of an earlier proceedings are not justified for any reason. Honourable heirs, thank you once again for the questions that have been asked. That's where I'm gonna end up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U73	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There's only one name for all this text, it's Alexander Kuusik. Have you, by any chance, met his story? Do you know what he was accused of, what he was arrested for, how it happened, what it was like after the so-called apology process, and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U75	Thank you. I've only seen the case superficially. You're probably referring to 2002. I understand that this person was wanted for metal theft in Virumaa and was in custody for nine days. In 2004, this criminal procedure was closed and the decision not to be compensated for his presence in custody has been confirmed by various judicial authorities. Complaints to this effect have also been submitted at a later stage, but they have been rejected. But this is my kind of superficial knowledge. It's not an honor to know him, and I'm only familiar with his case at this level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U76	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U77	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This issue inspires my frustration for two reasons. In answering one question, the Minister said that it was once a killing, once a two-person killing, so such more serious crimes. It is frustrating, however, that even if a person is arrested, the suspect for more than 400 days, as sounded, cannot prove such a thing as killing. That's very unpleasant! And the other thing that I feel frustrated about is my personal knowledge, which I have received from a number of people who have been arrested in this way. I have my own idea of why this arrest is often used. The goal is to obtain information that compromises a person's self or a third person. Unfortunately, everyone who is in such a difficult situation understands perfectly that even if you have been insulted and you have been treated very undemocratically, it is best to keep your mouth shut, because otherwise, someday later, there will be some reason to put you behind bars again. But this is my personal conviction and my personal experience. I've been talking to someone who's been arrested and offered a chance to compromise against himself. I don't know, he probably did the right thing, and in less than two weeks he got out and lived happily ever after, until some six months later, what he could have spent behind bars, maybe it turned out that there was only one of the eight suspicions he was talking about at first, and it was so ridiculous that the lawyer didn't think it was going to trial. Another person who didn't agree to the scheme, who didn't want to testify against himself or mess with anyone else, sat for exactly six months. And in that six months, there was nothing but sitting, sitting, sitting. The minister here said that the average arrest will last 158 days. And once, the price of the day was about 800 kroons. If later this money is paid out and it has to be counted as an excuse, is that an excuse enough? Can the loss of liberty be compensated by kroons or euros? I think we're going the wrong way. The fact that we have all this going on and 738 people over the course of ten years were not finally prosecuted or declared acquitted in court indicates that a very large amount of work has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U78	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U79	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõvi, Jaan Õunapuu, Rein Randver and Jevgeni Ossinovski on 26 January (No 101). Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance! The programme of the Government Union provides for a reform of the system of special-marked fuel tax differentiation by providing direct support in certain areas. The reform was originally planned in two phases. Last spring, with the approval of bill No 39, the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for stationary engines, mining, forestry and construction was discontinued. The amendment entered into force on 1 January 2012. According to the Minister for Finance, the second phase of this reform was to provide for support schemes or direct payments instead of the use of preferential fuel in favour of the remaining sectors, such as rail transport of passengers and goods, shipping, heat and electricity production and agriculture. This second stage was scheduled for last autumn and it was also due to enter into force on 1 January of this year. Unfortunately, the most important part of this ambitious reform has been entangled. I do not know to speak for all the representatives involved, but farmers are dissatisfied because their expectations have not been fulfilled. On this issue, we signatories have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U81	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. Now, please, Minister of Finance, to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to repeat first of all why we have undertaken this reform in the first place. Here this administrative excitement is, in my opinion, secondary, the important thing is that we all understand it in the same way. Indeed, we would like to stop painting fuel and subsidising fossil fuel through tax incentives. In my opinion, the fundamental principle of responsible taxation is not to encourage fossil fuel burning and energy intensity by granting it any advantages. But, of course, real life is complicated. What is written at a negotiating table somewhere requires technical formalisation, as well as administrative co-operation. We really hoped to come up with final proposals last autumn. The first half has been the Ministry of Finance, but we've had some problems working together. There is a need to involve the Ministry of Speciality, without the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Agriculture. During the negotiations, we have received a promise from them that they will make an effort in this direction, but they have also complained that it is difficult. Any major change will, of course, cause inconvenience to anyone, and above all, inconvenience to the authorities. But I hope we do it anyway. That's what we're gonna do, we're gonna pick it up again as soon as we can, and we're gonna remember. 'When will the aid schemes for the use of fuel at a preferential rate for the remaining beneficiary areas (rail transport of passengers and goods, shipping, heat and electricity production and agriculture) or the implementation of direct aids? ' As I said, we will try to develop this subject with our partners and get these answers. Couldn't get a quick result. But in making a state budget strategy, we would like to give it a new impulse. This is already taking place this spring, April. So it's not a long time. Of course, I can't rule out that interest groups are making matters more difficult. It always feels like somebody's losing somewhere. But the aim of this proposal, of course, is not, as you have understood, to bring money to the state budget, but to get rid of the possibility of fraud. Undoubtedly, if preferential fuel is allowed to be used somewhere, its use can easily leak into other areas. We also want to reduce the administrative burden of differentiation and encourage the efficient use of fuel. It is also necessary to design support schemes accordingly. The third question: 'Do you consider it possible to implement the second phase of the reform in half the financial year? ' That cannot be ruled out, but I would nevertheless exclude that this will take place in the middle of this financial year. It makes sense to do this at the beginning of the year. The companies still work as a rule with the accounting for the beginning of the year. But it cannot quite be ruled out, nor is the start of the company's financial year always 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U83	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Let's start with the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U84	Thank you! Dear Minister, I share your understanding that this really is an extremely difficult issue. But if there is no good solution for all the areas in work, one could start with one where support schemes would be easier to implement, for example, from agriculture. If there are PRIA registers, it may be possible to implement appropriate solutions for the e-state on the basis of them. Do you consider it possible to start with agriculture, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U85	For my part, I certainly do, but I'm most afraid of reluctance by this department. Personally, I sense that the most difficult thing to do is break barriers there. It's been easier for me to talk to the Minister of Economic Affairs. But, yeah, these e-state solutions, some kind of fuel map, or something like that, are under control. I don't know how to describe the state of things, because the last time I spoke to the Minister of Agriculture was a while ago. He doesn't mind, but I can't see the glow in his eyes when you're talking about it. I'd like to see it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U86	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that it was difficult for the authorities to implement different schemes in agriculture. But in fact, it is also extremely difficult, if not almost impossible, to change the fuel used in the agricultural tractor's fuel system in such a way that no paint waste remains there. Now we have another snowy winter behind us. Are you aware of how many contacts the Tax and Customs Board has had with the use of painted fuel for road maintenance? Are there fines or what the situation is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U88	I'm not dealing with specific tax matters, I'm not allowed to. But if you're interested in the statistics, I'm sure you can get it. It is not, in itself, a national coercion; it is a national concession. The co-face of all such benefits are border events and leaks, figuratively, the abuses and inconveniences they cause. That's the rule. That's one reason we'd like to clean the place up. In fact, I would also like to get rid of this preferential oil system in households and offer a support scheme in return, in particular in the form of investments. The idea of oil heating can't be very cheap. There are problems between these different areas all the time; there are problems now too. It was the same before that last change. As soon as you make one exception, this exception will begin to spread, and that's why the tank issue has arisen. But I do know that MTA is reasonable here, their priority is not to pursue such unimportant suspicious or controversial cases. It is clear, however, that, for example, when pushing snow to gain an advantage there is procurement; there is real economic competition; business activities must not be able to do so. A farmer receives cheaply what a road maintenance company must receive expensively, in fact, it is a question of fair competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U89	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, One of the objectives of these amendments was probably to ensure that state support reaches where it has to go, and certainly to reduce administrative burdens and administration costs. Have you seen anything better in these months and less fraud? As my colleague, Neeme the Great, asked: have they been reduced in the past two months?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U91	Like I said, I don't have my hands on the pulse of tax matters all the time. If you want an analysis, I'd like to take a look at it. But you can't deny that the perfect reform is still when it's done throughout. At the same time, the losses we made were reasonable. These extensions, which have been made over the years as a result of the lobby, explaining that, oh, we are not driving here on the road, they have led to fraud. And they've just been unreasonable because fossil fuels remain fossil fuels. Its finality remains final and its climate effects remain what they are. And in those areas where we have lost preferences, it is reasonable to still contribute to savings, not just direct benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U92	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U93	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! On this issue, I am delighted that you have not been able to hit everyone by your will with one table. What's this about? The question is that the areas that are still on this list and where a special bonus can be used to buy fuel are subsidised in other countries. If we were to make this tax change to these companies without compensating them, they would lose out in competition. Have you thought about it or not? I mean both transport of goods, such as maritime transport, and farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U94	I haven't talked about anything but a compensation scheme. Since I have not achieved this result, it is regrettable that this result is certainly not fairer and more responsible taxation, nor is it tax administration. People will still be looking for ways to use cheap fuel in areas where it should not be used. And that's a lie! I repeat, this is the wrong way if some industry is favoured by means of a tax exemption. This leads to fraud, leads to energy inefficiencies and favours those who are not effective. And that's also a moral issue. Today, the European Union should still be a pioneer in this area, and I would argue that there will also be initiatives on the part of the European Union in these areas. Now that you have heard, there has been a great confrontation with the issue of fiscal subsidisation in aviation, or 'climate dumping'. The CO2 quota is also intended to be established in aviation and countries that have not shown responsibility for climate policy are opposed. We don't know the result, but we can see the direction, the aspirations. Estonia could be a modern state in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U95	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U96	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Have you and your colleagues talked about this and been able to convince them that your step is right and that they would join you, that we would still be on the same market with the same opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U97	Of course I am. I also specifically mentioned a minister with whom we have talked at a table about this, and that was also the subject of the coalition talks. I am always prepared to defend this position. I am also prepared to protect the normal VAT treatment of room temperature because social policy cannot be done at the expense of the climate, it must be done differently. If I remember correctly, in 2003, we made this decision, and your party, which was in the meantime in the government, did not contest it. I think it was very statesmanlike. But although it has not been statesmanly that some of your members have repeatedly referred to it as a major mistake of later governments. We should all understand that paying for the burning of fossil fuels, whether through tax incentives or otherwise, is neither European nor responsible. However, it is important to support people who cannot cope with themselves for objective reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U98	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. On previous issues, Estonia's competitiveness came to an end as a result of the fact that we have regulated or subsidised use of fossil fuels in one way or another. We are competing in the European Union with other countries, with companies from other countries. What is the overall economic direction agreed in the European Union? Is it considered appropriate to give greater support to the use of fossil fuels by subsidising it or, on the contrary, to the lower consumption of fossil fuels and thus to increase the competitiveness of the economy? And what are our relevant prospects for competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U100	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U101	Europe is still in the direction of not encouraging fossil fuel combustion. The opposite direction would be short-sighted and also detrimental to the climate. In terms of competitiveness, perhaps it would be reasonable not to care about the climate. So we are dealing with the issue of the efficiency of taxation and global responsibility. That is why Europe is rejecting fossil fuels by all means. I think, for example, that we have a completely common understanding of this with the European Union's Tax Commissioner. Taxation of consumption and environmental burden is what Europe needs to move towards.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U102	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry into the availability of medical care in Estonia by members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Lauli, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendijev, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Deniss Borodichi, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigase, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Kalle Laaneti, Rainer Vakra, Jüri Ratas, Olga Sõtnik and Priit Toobal on 16 January (No 91). Mr Marika Tuus-Laul's Speechboard, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U103	Madam Chairman! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Health Care Professionals' Association and the Estonian Medical Association sent a joint letter to the Government of the Republic and the Health Insurance Fund Council quite recently with a proposal to improve access to medical care. The letter stated that health care in Estonia has become increasingly accessible to the population, especially to the poorest part of it. In addition, many unemployed people have lost health insurance and thus lost access to primary care. This approach states that healthcare funding is far from responding to the level of treatment. The quality of medical care has only been maintained at the cost of the doctors' overload. Of course, the top order is caused both by the shortage of workers and by the lack of money. More and more, it is the lack of specialised doctors that limits access to treatment. In addition, we are raising the problem that all this is also due to the concern of the University of Tartu Hospital, where a lot of doctors have left because of the overload and are replaced by residents who should not make their own treatment decisions, but for some reason do. So that's where our questions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U104	Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. I would now like to ask the speaker of the Minister for Social Affairs. You have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U105	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm taking this opportunity to answer. The first question is how I, as a minister, appreciate the situation at the University of Tartu Hospital. In short, I think it's perfectly normal, and I've always thought of it. The University of Tartu Hospital is certainly one of the best health institutions in Estonia. But since you referred in your inquiry to the Postimees article on the clinic, let me tell you some facts. In 2011, 650 doctors worked at the University of Tartu Hospital. During the year, the contract of employment was terminated with 25, which makes turnover a percentage of 3.8. Let me just say here, as a marginal remark, that the percentage of turnover in the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, last year was almost 16, i.e. four, even almost five times higher. The reasons for the termination of the contract are so many that six of these 25 people retired, one died unfortunately, the other 18 had different reasons, some of which certainly had to go to work in another country. In some cases, the contractor's or doctor's requirements were involved, which the clinic's management did not consider possible. With the permission of the management of the clinic, allow me to read a few of these requests: 'I am willing to do a maximum of three guards per calendar month. On weekends and public holidays, I don't do surveillance. Every Thursday of the week must be free and one weekend a month with Friday and Monday must also be free. If necessary, I'll arrange for Friday's police reception on another day. " So it is not just a question of working conditions, but also of the demands of doctors, which, unfortunately, cannot be satisfied in the light of medical work and treatment processes. The second question: how available do I think medical care is in Estonia? My assessment is one, people's judgment is another. According to the most recent survey "According to Health and Health Care 2011', 51% of the Estonian population considers access to health care to be good. If you take the trend of the last five years, there has been no change in substance, the movement has been a few percentage points up and down. Interestingly, in Central Estonia, for example, we do not have a regional or central hospital level, but 69% of those living there consider access to medical care to be good, or more than two thirds. The least satisfied with access to health care is in Northern Estonia, where the number of hospitals is highest: 42% of respondents have assessed access to health care. Speaking of family doctors, 84% of those who visited the family doctor during the year could register for the appointment by the time they wanted to. People living on land and in smaller cities have somewhat more of the time they want than in large cities. This is also evidenced by the fact that half of the people waiting in line waited longer than allowed, because they did not have the right time before; half came on a revisit or follow-up and only 1% waited for the hospital's lack of capacity, i.e. lack of staff or lack of space. So when we're talking about access to medical care and queues, we're gonna have to see what's back there. Question 3: 'How problematic do you consider the departure of Estonian health care workers abroad? ' I have said this before, and I assure you today that the migration of health workers is certainly a problem. And this is a problem not only in Estonia, but also in very many other countries of the European Union. The emigration of health workers is also a serious problem in the so-called rich countries of the European Union. The happiness of Estonia has certainly been that our health professionals have been able to work in parallel both in Estonia and abroad. The main country of destination of Estonian doctors is still Finland. At this point, I assure you that we have agreed with our Finnish colleagues that we will carry out a survey in the course of this year, hopefully even before the summer, to find out how much and with what burden our doctors are working in Finland. Then we get a picture of how many doctors are moving between the two countries. We all know Eesti Arsti, which is a magazine issued by the Doctors' Association. I brought a number here. When it comes to migration, I admit that this problem has to be dealt with, but I did not find any adverts here from the Estonian Arst that doctors are being sought at an Estonian hospital. I did find two ads entitled Job Offers in South and West Finland. Perhaps this gives a bit of insight into the kind of recruitment work that Estonian hospitals do and the interest foreign doctors have in Estonian doctors. The fourth question was what concrete steps the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning after the reorganisation of the family medical system. There's been a lot of talk about them here before. But if you try briefly to list them again, as you certainly know, we have concluded a consensus agreement with all the parties involved in the need for state medical training with the Medical Association, the Hospital Association and the Ministry of Education and the University of Tartu. The latter is known to have increased the number of residents. The basic allowance is already provided for by law and a replacement family doctor system is in place. And, as I said, we will soon be able to find out what will be happening on both sides of the Gulf of Finland, a study of this kind is coming up. One of the issues that I hope will also come to Parliament's proceedings is that, together with one draft, there is the need to make medicines cheaper and, in this respect, to increase the role of the first level as a gatekeeper, the main monitoring of chronic patients at the first level, which would certainly reduce the number of specialist medical visits in hospitals. It is certainly worth considering the addition of a second family nurse to higher quality centres when organising primary care. It will be planned next year, at least according to current plans. But if that happens, it depends on the budget. The fifth question concerns the Postimees article you referred to and the statement that doctors work in clinics even 75 to 80 hours a week. All you can say about that is that it's not true. I also spoke to the chairman of the clinic's board today. The Chairman of the Management Board assured me that the University of Tartu Hospital is governed by the Employment Contracts Act in force in the Republic of Estonia. But as far as working on other jobs and aggregated working hours are concerned, hopefully we will be smarter about this after we have carried out the above-mentioned study. Then we'll find out where and how busy the doctors are working. The sixth question was about the outcome of the conciliation procedure. Here I can say that, of course, we all want to raise salaries in many disciplines, especially specialists. But we are aware of what the demands of teachers are, and we also know the wishes of other areas, and, of course, the demands of doctors or, more generally, of health workers should respond to the cost of money paid by taxpayers to the state budget. In the preliminary budget plan for the following year, the Board of the Health Insurance Fund will certainly also include an increase in the wage component. Well, then the Health Insurance Board will discuss it. If it is clear how much more tax money will be received next year, it will be possible to decide on the priority sectors or the priority budget areas to which the additional money will go.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U106	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U107	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask: among whom are these satisfaction studies carried out? In the wider population, or only among those who want to see a doctor, among patients who have tried to see a doctor? And are waiting lists of about four months or no queues normal to you or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U108	Thank you for your question. This study is being carried out on a very broad basis. On the website of the Health Insurance Fund, this study is nice and easy to see. It also contains exact samples. If necessary, I'll send you the exact link to this study. It contains a separate account of the opinions of those who wanted to see a doctor, and likewise of those who simply assessed the availability of medical care. They're specially presented there. This whole study is completely public, it's already being done if my memory isn't cheated for the fifth or sixth year in a row, and there's a lot of interesting information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U109	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U110	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You showed us the magazine Eesti Arst and said that there were no ads there. It's like no one's looking for doctors, no need for doctors, it's like it's okay. Have you ever seen ads that invite doctors from Jordan to work as a surgeon in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U111	Thank you for your question. I certainly didn't say everything was okay. Take a verbatim, count what I said. I said that in this magazine I do not see advertisements from Estonian hospitals. I very much hope that we will also be discussing that we can support Eesti Ars as Estonia's only collection of medical scientific articles by the state. And if we support it, we would certainly like to make it a condition that, when the state finances the magazine, there must also be advertisements from Estonian hospitals about how many doctors are needed somewhere. At the moment, a pediatrician is needed in Lääne-Virumaa, for example, as well as a LOR doctor. I simply emphasised that this is a magazine from the Estonian Association of Doctors offering work in Finland. If we are trying to keep doctors in Estonia, the association of doctors, as a professional organisation, could be interested in having the jobs offered by Estonian hospitals in the magazine so that our young doctors, or Estonian hospitals, can work. At the moment, I recall that I did not have one fact to answer the first question. I said that there are 650 doctors at the University of Tartu Hospital and 25 of them ended the employment relationship, but it was not said that a contract of employment was signed with 26 young doctors. So 25 went away and 26 came in. The University of Tartu Hospital is certainly a very prestigious place where young doctors want to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U112	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It's easy to blame doctors for looking for opportunities to work abroad in their magazine and not wanting to work here, asking for Saturdays or Thursdays or Fridays. The more lacking the specialist, the greater his demands, there is nothing to be done. But are existing reserves to be used? We have assistant doctors, but their funding has not been decided. We have general practitioners, but they do not have a proper legal framework to help implement them better. What are the plans for the assistant doctors and general practitioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U114	Good Dr. Vasilyev! I certainly did not blame the Estonian doctors, and I am not going to. Estonian doctors are very good. I said that the focus of this magazine could be that Estonian hospitals would also indicate their human resources needs in a magazine specifically addressed to doctors, just as personnel search companies from another country do. This was the point of the remark, not the blaming of Estonian doctors. As far as general and auxiliary doctors are concerned, the family doctor replacement system is remembered to have a first bird: the general doctor can also offer himself. However, there is a legal framework for doctors. As far as their remuneration is concerned, it is now up to the hospitals themselves. This issue comes out of the context of this inquiry, but I believe that we will certainly continue to have fruitful debates with young doctors, with the association of medical students on how to make better use of doctors and how to regulate the general medical profession, both this year and next year. This proposal has been made. Young doctors and medical students, as we know, have launched a very fun campaign called 'I Believe in Estonian Medicine'. It is my honour to have a T-shirt with this letter and to wear it. So, strength and good luck to the young doctors! Right now, we have moved on nicely and we will probably also come to the regulation of the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U115	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U116	Thank you. As we are talking about access to medical care, I would like to take up one of the smaller areas of the topic of pediatricians, which you briefly mentioned in a few words. As a young father yourself, I'm sure you're aware that during the period of illness, children's hospital emergency receptions are occasionally on the verge of madness. What is wrong with our family medical system that is still so massively found when a family doctor really needs to accept that it is more appropriate to go to a pediatrician?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U117	I think there's nothing wrong with our system. The fact that children are also dealt with at the primary level is absolutely right. If we take family doctors outside Tallinn and Tartu, then there mostly family doctors do the work very nicely. In fact, a parallel must be drawn not only with the emergency department of Tallinn Children's Hospital, but also with the emergency department of the North-Estonian Regional Hospital or East-Tallinn Central Hospital. The analysis of the North Estonian Regional Hospital itself shows that 25-30% of visits have been those that have not actually been qualified by the emergency department. This is, in many ways, a matter of patient awareness, but the fact is that a young parent thinks that a family doctor might be able to solve the case, but if you go to the emergency department, you have to take the specialists right away. Time is less expensive. But, as I said, this privilege is called the privilege, so only parents of Tallinn and Tartu still have the privilege. Others are still primarily communicating with their family doctor, and most of what is needed is done at the primary level. I think the family doctor system is very good. But, of course, there are also exceptional unforeseen cases; everything depends very much on the specific situation, whether to go to a family doctor or to emergency medicine. Tallinn Children's Hospital can confirm that their load is higher in the evening and on weekends when family doctors are not available.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U118	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I took it by word or by thought when you said the family medical system was a very good system. I kept thinking about my loved ones, who have been repeatedly unprofessionally helpless. So where's the mistake or where's the ball going? Is the question that the patient who is at home is not able to express himself well enough or to moan hard enough that he is sick? What do you have to do if the system works, but people don't get help? Where could this be a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U120	Certainly, each individual case must be looked at separately. I believe that the first person to make an assessment is the man himself. He or she shall decide whether to seek medical advice at all and, if so, whether it is a family doctor or an ambulance or any other higher-stage health care provider to whom he or she is travelling. This is the point of the first assessment. When a person grabs a phone, the next question is whether the PSAP can respond adequately and decide whether or not an ambulance is needed or whether or not a person can move. But to answer the question, you might want to analyze specific cases, you might be able to suggest or think about something.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U121	Thank you, good answer! No further questions for you. We're gonna start negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, We learned from the Minister that the flow of doctors is not a problem, that the departure of doctors from Estonia is happiness, and that access to medical care is assessed on the basis of studies. I dare say that access to medical care, especially specialist medical care, is getting worse every day. People need to wait many months to get to a specialist, as well as to get to research. And it's an old problem that money gets paid right away, but then you have to pay for the analyses yourself. For example, a magnetic resonance imaging study is done at quite a cost of €60 per person. I think there are still quite a few people who can afford it. Now the queues. For example, I learned that access to one orthopedic was to be expected until mid - May, and there was no time to close the other orthopedic, and it was said that until the summer, all the numbers were closed and the new list was not yet available. In short, no more queues. It's still the same problem that it's like we're hiding real waiting times and just distorting the overall picture. Some time ago, for example, the waiting time for a pulmologist was 122 days, i.e. more than four months, 106 days for a neurologist, and 101 days for a LOR doctor. As we mentioned here today, the General Assembly of the Medical Association made a public address. They also claim that the queues are so long that they have long exceeded all the order permitted by the regulations and what has been laid down by law. There's nothing to do, disease gets chronic when a person doesn't get to see a doctor. And so the ministers here are wondering why people with disabilities and disability pensions are constantly coming up. We produce them ourselves. An excessive number of treatments are, of course, caused by lack of money, but also by the lack of doctors and nurses, their massive departure. This is perhaps an even bigger problem right now. It's all in the government's hands, but what do we do? Let's still look and find out where to cut it again. Of course, money cannot continue, because in Europe the whole system remains only for the working population. Two thirds of the health care allowance comes from a 13% health insurance fee. However, unemployment is high and taxes are not paid. A little more than a quarter comes directly from the person's wallet and 6 to 7% of the state budget. Of course, money cannot go on. I repeat again and again: the World Health Organisation, or WHO, has stated directly that our health system is unsustainable. They say the chaos is almost there. Raul-Allan Kiivet, Professor of Health Management at the University of Tartu, has also said that there is a financing crisis in Estonian health care. Even Hannes Danilov, Chairman of the Board of Health Insurance Fund, has admitted that the situation of poor people is catastrophic, because when a person spends 40% of the money left over from other essential expenses on medicines and medical treatment, it is catastrophic. We've been talking about dental care a hundred times here. People don't go to the doctor and just get a sick tooth pulled out. There's no point in talking about glasses. You can't buy them for a long time. We have 83882 uninsured people, these are Praxis data from the end of last year. Our prescription medicines are among the most expensive in Europe, with 40% participation. I compare this with the so-called old European countries: in the Netherlands 0.1%, in Italy 3%, in France 4%. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U123	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U124	So our prescription drugs are one of the most expensive. From the disease of HIV, we are proudly the first in Europe, from the back to the back to compensate for new medicines, from health expenditure per person somewhere behind, Romania is even worse than us. At the same time, we proudly give away 100,000 euros of doctors abroad, and that is how much money is spent on training one doctor. Soon we will probably start recruiting, and we are already recruiting doctors from Russia or Mongolia, for example. Of course, doctors have a lot of pressure. After all, the work of those who are part of the time in Finland must also be done by others. That's where the troubles start. The minister has told young people about the start-up grant, but there are only ten doctors and no more. Indeed, we are asking: what is really going on, Mr Minister? Maybe you're familiar with someone, and you'll let him see how soon he can get an orthopedic or a LOR doctor or a pulmonologist. These are very long queues. Of course, the question remains that, of course, our private health care is working for profit forever. The company is only interested in the profit number, the treatment only comes in the second order. There's not much better hope for this system. We can shovel money in there as much as we want, essentially placing taxpayers' money in private hands through the health insurance fund. It is a fact that profit orientation actually leads to social inequalities in health care. We could at least admit this problem, but instead we found out here today that everything is more or less okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U125	Thank you very much. I'm asking Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U126	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I only came to the speaker's desk because I felt that the Minister, Mr. Minister, was a bit offended by my question. The simple question of whether there have been any ads to look for doctors in Jordan. The point is, in the meantime, I got out of the hall, I called a hospital in a small town in Estonia, and I said: I have heard that you have a Jordanian surgeon at work, do there are doctors from other countries? I was told that I have an outdated information about these Jordanian doctors we have four. And a little more doctors from our eastern neighboring country. This means that we produce doctors and they leave the country, but we must bring in doctors from Russia, Belarus and Jordan. But I, for example, do not take it personally, and I also recommend to the Minister: no offense. Don't take it personally, don't take it personally! In fact, I would have reason to take it personally, because one of my relatives, my niece, works as a nurse in England, and only the economic situation and the financing of medicine here in Estonia have driven her to a foreign country. And another example. This girl is still a potential relative of mine right now, but I hope she becomes a real relative. Last year he received a diploma, now studying Swedish, and I think he'll learn it. You can understand how it ends when a person with a doctor's degree learns Swedish. So I have reason to take a personal view of many matters. For example, on Friday, I received Midweek, which I read that a fresh Social Democrat, oh, I don't want to be wrong, it really sounds that way, someone in Tamara Luiga gave an interview to the Russian newspaper Den za Dnjom and said, among other things, 'Can we get back to the Stalinian time for a week, we could quickly get back to the house! ' I do not take it personally, although my grandfather had been deported, for 13 years he sat in camps, until he returned to Estonia in the late 1950s. I don't take it personally. If the Social Democrats have such a view on Stalin, let it be. Everyone has the right to an opinion. I don't take it so hard when people say that our neighborhood, Lembit, isn't it, Ida-Virumaa, is kind of corrupt. Of course, I know the statistics from the Justice Department. I know that in the last three years, the average number of corruption crimes per year is 240 or a little more. There are 64000 people living in Narva, 5% of the population, so we should have on average 12 corrupt crimes per year. There have been three of them in our authorities over the last three years, one case being bullshit, one is the result of imitation, and one case really can be said of corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U127	Good waitress, I have such a comment that we also have a free microphone round today. Maybe we should go back to the subject of questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U128	That's what I'm talking about. I will give the Minister examples of the need not to be offended when members of the Riigikogu ask. We have a right to ask, you could answer. No offense! We're not offended! And if we continue on this subject, which we do not take to heart, for example, the same case of corruption statistics. Who have we had corruption in the last two years? One assistant prosecutor, two judges, Chief of Police. But they talk about Narva, they talk about Ida-Virumaa. But we won't be offended. We're taking this very calmly. So even if people ask if doctors are invited from Jordan or Russia or elsewhere, and if there is no such advertisement in the magazine Eesti Arst, this topic can be developed peacefully. I've never seen such ads. That's it. With that attitude, we all live a longer and happier life because everything that you take to heart wants to kill you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U129	Thank you. Does the waitress want an ending? Please, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, speak chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U130	Honourable member of the Riigikogu Stalnukhin, I am amazed at your human knowledge! I don't know, but I wasn't offended. If you think I'm offended, congratulations! But don't incriminate people with things that haven't happened. My advice to you, if you ask me, I'll answer. If you don't like the answer, you can ask again. I wasn't offended. I gave a very simple example, based on this medical journal. I would like to see that there are also advertisements for Estonian hospitals, because Estonian hospitals also need qualified doctors from the University of Tartu. You heard statistics: 25 doctors left the University of Tartu Hospital, 26 young residents came to work. Tallinn hospitals have no problem either. My wish as minister and I believe that you, as a person elected from Narva, also wish that there would be young residents in Narva Hospital who come from the University of Tartu to have young doctors coming from Tartu at Ida-Viru Central Hospital. But if the Ida-Viru Central Hospital or whatever hospital in Estonia finds qualified staff outside Estonia, then so be it. As long as they can help the people of Estonia adequately. By the way, you can ask the same question in the Finnish Parliament: why do doctors who are trained in Finland not want to work in Finland? Why do German doctors trained in Germany not want to work in Germany but go to Norway or the United States? The movement of doctors, just as specialists from other disciplines are free. Certainly, every country can do a great deal to keep doctors at home, but the labour market is not only open to medicine, but also to the wider European Union and is one of the fundamental rights that exist in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U131	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask a procedural question on the spot, Mikhail Stalnukhin? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U132	A procedural question: I wanted to clarify that, according to our working arrangements, I cannot ask questions in the Finnish Parliament. And I'm so sorry, but I really thought you were offended. But that's why I got to take the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U133	It wasn't a procedural question. But thank you, everyone! With this, the fifth question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U134	We are going to the next, sixth question, which is the question of Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Esemaa, Inara Luigas, Peeter Võsa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Jüri Ratas, Viktor Vasiliev, Yana Toomi, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi presented on 18 January this year to the Social Minister Hanno Pevkur. In the name of the heirs, there will be a chair called Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with the offense. No offense here. This leads to depression, and doctors are needed again to treat depression, and we do not have enough of them. So let's take it easy. The purpose of the inquiry is quite different. There's a top specialist, a doctor who's been fired on the day. He does not want to leave Estonia and would like to work here, but unfortunately, the job opportunities are low, because in the hospital where he is currently working, there is no work in this field and what happens next, no one in Estonia knows. But our key question, if we go to this question more precisely, is that in 2011, a week before Christmas, a heart doctor was fired from the North Estonian Regional Hospital because of the loss of trust in Hasso Uuetoa. According to Postimees, the main reason for this year's 13 January was his participation in the operation at the heart centre of the "competitive East-Tallinn Central Hospital," where renal artery denervation was first performed in Estonia for patients with high blood pressure. Hasso Uuetoa is the only specialist in Estonia in specific treatment, ablation of atrial fibrillation. Launching a heart doctor soon took the hope of treatment from 88 patients suffering from heart rhythm disorders. According to PERH, the loss of the heart doctor's trust was due to a number of factors, one of which was that, despite the opposite agreement, Dr. New Room continued to direct patients to ITK treatment. PERH started to resolve the situation by starting negotiations to involve a Finnish colleague in order to restart procedures from February. The Health Insurance Fund considers that the absence of the necessary specialist is also one of the reasons for sending a person abroad for treatment. However, it is not certain that this also applies to patients who have had a heart doctor called Hasso Uuetoa. The current Health Insurance Act provides that the Health Insurance Fund may conclude an agreement to provide the insured person with healthcare benefits abroad at the request of the insured person or his legal representative, unless the healthcare applied for or alternative health care is provided in Estonia; if the provision of the health care sought is indicated to the insured person; if the healthcare applied for has proven medical effectiveness and the average probability of achieving the objective of the health care applied for is at least 50%. As a result, we have seven questions for the Minister for Social Affairs. We're waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U136	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! A member of the Riigikogu, elected from Saaremaa, would have expected the suggestion that we take pleasure, not that we take it easy. But that's it. I'll try to cross the questions. The first question: how problematic do I find the hospital's competition to be? If we're trying to define what this competition is, we could define it in a way that many different subjects have similar interests or that they simultaneously pursue the same goal. In Estonian health care, we have two problematic trends in this regard. Firstly, the competition of hospitals for competent staff, including staff from other countries, which we have just debated lively here. And secondly, hospitals' interest in providing profitable healthcare. The situation is certainly complicated by the fact that the hospital network development plan for hospitals is owned either by municipalities or by the State, and the interests of the owners are sometimes not uniform. But broadly speaking, the fact that Estonian hospitals have competition between themselves should, in fact, be positive. Competition always leads to progress and competition is one of the driving forces in the development of health services. And in order to regulate it a little bit, the Government of the Republic has drawn up a hospital network development plan and the Minister's regulation lays down requirements for different types of hospital: different types of hospital have been given actions that they can and must not do, and which they have the right to expect public funding. The second question: 'How do you assess the situation that has arisen, does dismissal for these reasons not conflict with medical ethics? " The dismissal of a doctor is undoubtedly a matter between an employer and an employee, and medical ethics cannot be directly linked to it. When we look at the code of medical ethics, the highest objective of the doctor's professional work is to promote and protect human health. In every situation, the doctor is deserving of his profession. The Estonian Code of Medical Ethics also lays down standards of conduct in relations between colleagues. Medical ethics is about a doctor, not so much a health care provider. As regards the relationship between the two parties, the service provider and the doctor, it is an agreement between them. Of course, it should be taken into account that if a doctor is working for several employers, they should have an agreement on the relevant conditions. As we know, the Employment Contracts Act allows us to regulate working with another employer, as well as applying the obligation of secrecy. Similarly, it is possible to set out in the contract what behaviour the employer expects of the employee and what he considers to be a breach of trust, a breach of loyalty, etc. The law itself has given all the possibilities, but of course they must be negotiated between the doctor and the hospital when they start working. It is very easy to terminate an employment relationship if the duty of loyalty has been violated and if it has not been violated, or if the situation is so-called disputed, then they go to court. The third question: Is treating patients in a competitor's spare time a sufficient reason, in my opinion, to dismiss a very good specialist? I'd be happy to leave this dispute outside the court. I believe that when the Court has assessed this, it has been done adequately. As far as I know, this dispute is currently in court, and I'm sure the court will discuss it. Within the framework of this question, however, I am happy to inform you that we met with the parties to this dispute last week. I had invited the people of Dr. Uuetoa, the Association of Estonian Surgeons and the Society of Estonian Cardiologists, as well as members of the management board of both hospitals, East-Tallinn Central Hospital and North-Estonian Regional Hospital. We spoke quite frankly. We were talking about the situation. My biggest concern about this is that the reputation of the Estonian medical team as a whole should not be damaged because of such problems. And, of course, that treatment opportunities for Estonian patients do not become worse. At this meeting, the representative of the North Estonian Regional Hospital confirmed that today, when we are discussing this issue, this service will be available to patients. But all parties admitted that this whole solution, this whole process, was not the most sensible one. One person who participated in the round table also called for the parties to the labour dispute - Dr Uuetoa and the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital - to find an out-of-court solution. I don't know if they're gonna do this or not. Question 4: how much do I agree with the argument that a compromise should be found? How can we not agree to this? Compromise is always the best. As I have already said, in this debate with me, too, there was a proposal that the parties to the labour dispute try to find a compromise. But it takes two sides to compromise. If I should say my subjective assessment, then after this meeting, I have the feeling that the likelihood of a compromise being reached is relatively low, unless they can agree otherwise in a few weeks or days. At that round table, I did not have a deep conviction that two parties could find a rational solution. Question 5: How much more will it be estimated that the treatment of patients who should be sent abroad in the absence of the necessary specialist will be more expensive? We have asked the cardiologists for an independent and competent assessment of the availability of treatments and their substitutability with other treatments for cardiac arrhythmias. We also asked for an opinion from the Society on the expected needs, opportunities and influences for further use of these methods. Due to the response of the Cardiologists' Society, atrial fibrillation in Estonia is dealt with by all medical institutions, by the way, by family doctors, but, of course, when we are talking about surgical intervention, the situation is different. According to information provided by the Cardiologists' Society, this is a disease caused by many causes, where treatment depends on the stage of development of the disease. It cannot be argued that only one treatment is possible. In view of both the discussion at this meeting and the procedures currently under way, one of which is the development plans of the specializations, including the development plan for cardiology, I very much hope that the Association of Cardiologists will agree among themselves the vision of different treatments and treatment places in Estonia. As a result, further staff choices can also be made by hospital. This is what we can hope for now, but it is, of course, a prerequisite that not hospitals on their own and not the minister alone on the fourth floor of the Gonsior Street House, but, above all, the Cardiologists' Association is the one who is shaping a coherent and clear understanding of how atrial fibrillation and other diseases requiring cardiologist intervention are dealt with. This disease has several stages and depends on the indications for which surgical intervention is justified, for which it is not, for which one treatment is appropriate, for which other treatment is appropriate. That conversation last week got very detailed. However, the end result can be that the aim is to find a satisfactory outcome for all. The aim is to ensure the permanent good reputation of the Estonian medical team so that we do not have to deal with such problems in the public sector or in the minister's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U138	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U139	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Obviously, someone must be treated abroad, because in a country as small as Estonia, one must behave as in other small countries: where a better service is provided, a person is sent there for treatment. There is simply no point in providing all the services themselves if something is done elsewhere in a better way and there is more experience. But, of course, the problem is that if one person is sent to Germany, four people will not be cured because the insurance cover is completely different. The problem is that many patients are not treated, just as many people are unemployed in Estonia, just as many people are unable to pay their debts, there is no money. And the money isn't in health care either. It has been announced that this percentage of GDP is almost the same as in other parts of Europe...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U140	Please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U141	... but the money is still four and a half times less than in Germany and Sweden. Why don't you ask for more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U142	Money doesn't come from a wall or from a tree. A good member of the Riigikogu certainly knows that money is brought into the state budget by the hardworking hands of the taxpayer. But when we talk about treatment opportunities and needs abroad, I suggest you review yesterday's "Actual camera." A week'. There were nice statistics on how many people who applied for treatment abroad have received medical benefits and if not many. I agree with you one hundred percent that it is not practical or reasonable to do all treatments in Estonia if we do not have the competence to do so. That is a perfectly reasonable position. As far as money is concerned, as far as I am concerned, the Health Insurance Fund has not failed to pay for anyone's treatment abroad. If there's been a need, it's been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U143	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U144	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we know, there are very many doctors working in parallel both in a public company and in a private company. Is this normal practice in the European Union, or do you see any conflict of interest here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U145	Good member of the Riigikogu! We don't have public companies in hospitals. All hospitals are public limited liability companies or foundations. We can talk about the ownership of these shares being either a State or a municipality, but they are all private legal entities. Other countries have different practices. In Finland, our neighbouring country, many times mentioned, the possibility of a doctor receiving both a hospital on top of a public purse and private practice is being cultivated. This is also the case in other countries. Rather, the question is that the number of medical services ordered by the State must be guaranteed by the hospital. If a doctor can do more, he has the right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U146	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Can you tell me how many doctors have been in recent years who lost confidence and were forced to quit? Or is that what we're talking about today an exceptional case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U148	When I answered the previous question, I gave an example of the University of Tartu Hospital, where the employment relationship with 25 doctors was terminated. In one case, unfortunately, the cause was death, perhaps six or eight retirements, and the rest were other reasons, whether the agreement between the employee and the employer, the employee's initiative or something else was behind it. I don't have the exact statistics at hand, so we should start asking hospital-by-hospital questions if anyone's lost confidence somewhere. But this case, which has been the subject of an inquiry, has been dealt with in the public media and not only in the public media, but, as I said, quite extraordinary in the Minister's office with all the parties involved. I very much hope that such cases, which undermine the reputation of doctors in Estonia as a whole, will not only be regarded as a conflict between one doctor and a hospital, but will have to be seen more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U149	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U150	Thank you. I fully agree with you that there is an elementary good competence in healthcare. And so far, we're used to keeping our health care levels high. Turns out it's not that high. I ask you: when will this level reach so high that our most respected people, or will we say it directly, would not be forced to go abroad, Mr President?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U151	What happened now that we agree with you!? Believe me, Estonian medical care is at a very high professional level. But just like yesterday's "Actual camera" showed. A week', however, there are a number of cases where treatment should be provided outside Estonia. This is not because we have poor quality of medical care. We have a very good quality of medical care. This is because, given the size of our population - 1.3 million people - we cannot have proper competence for certain rare diseases. The number of cases is just so small. You mentioned Mr. President, but I wouldn't want to dissect it any longer here. It's been through the media, too. I'm just saying so much that I've talked about it with both the Health Insurance Fund and the person who's been involved in the consiliation. In this case, there were five people in the consilium, when the decision is usually made by two or three doctors. All five people confirmed that this was an injury and a treatment method that was unreasonable in Estonia. This was the case and the patient was finally able to choose whether or not he or she wanted to take this procedure in Finland. I think that this issue could be considered closed and accepted by doctors. Five leading Estonian orthopedics have confirmed that it was reasonable to use a Finnish doctor to carry out this procedure, and we could trust Estonian doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U152	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. The round of questions is over. I'm opening negotiations. Please speak to Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister, I sincerely thank you that the issue of this doctor in particular has been discussed at such an exceptionally high level. I think he is a very good specialist and his departure from Estonia, which is very likely to become a reality, is a serious loss to those who need his help. But I can't solve this situation from this remote control. If the minister tried to solve it with the help of a round table and there is no result, then perhaps the only way is to wait for what time will bring. But when it comes to our medicine, I absolutely agree that there are very professional doctors in Estonia, there are very caring doctors in Estonia. Before I used the expression that somewhere, the ball falls between someone. In many cases, problems arise precisely because diseases cannot be diagnosed and responded to in time. During the previous inquiry, I asked a relatively broad question precisely because I have a large number of personal examples. Most of my conscious working life has passed in the area of security. But on the basis of these examples, I wonder if I have to be the hiromant who's going to tell us what sample we're going to take or what this disease is really going to be. This is not, in my view, a very constructive approach. I think maybe it's a good time to use a modern word, an entire medical audit to find out where the shoe is squeezing, and help in a positive way. This monitoring system should not work as a punitive measure, but precisely as a preventive measure, so that we can prevent something that we do not want. However, I must admit that Mr Pevkur has done very well in his position as Minister of Social Affairs. He has been able to give us adequate answers in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, and if there is a problem, it is also possible to talk to him in the corridor of the Riigikogu. However, I also understand that the current system is structured in such a way that it does not have a very large right to intervene in the resolution of certain issues. It is legally excluded from interfering with the autonomy of private hospitals. Yes, positive competition is certainly a driving force. But can it not be that, on the Estonian scale, this positive competition turns into a negative competition at one point? Those are questions I certainly can't answer on the remote, but these questions need answers. Answers should be received from people who are competent to give them. Finally, I very much hope that Estonia will not lose one good specialist. As far as I know, a specialist in this field is currently attending a hospital in Northern Estonia. Certainly, Estonian patients will not receive the amount of help they received before. And I'm sure this service will cost a lot more than it paid for our own doctor. This is not a solution that has time, it is a solution for a time of crisis. At the same time, we need to find solutions for the longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U154	Thank you very much. I'm asking for the chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U155	Madam President! Mr. Minister, I'm sorry about what I said. I misjudged, of course, I was thinking of private hospitals, which are partly owned by the state and local authorities, and partly by private capital. If doctors can work there like this, I don't mind, but the boundaries should be clearer. If, on a day, a doctor accepts a private hospital belonging to a state or municipality and receives it somewhere else in the evening, there is, in my opinion, a conflict of interest. The second issue is that in our small market competition in Estonia there should not be competition in medicine as it is today. There should never be investments that will never earn back and duplication. It's likely to extend to staff. We could try to coordinate this area in order to be systematic and strong in certain areas. These are the thoughts I wanted to convey to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U156	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no call. I will conclude the negotiations and also the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U157	We will go to today's final question, which is the inquiry submitted on 26 January 2012 by members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Kadri Simson, Tarmo Tamme, Inara Luigas, Ester Tuiksoo, Priit Toobali and Rainer Vakra to the Minister of Interior Ken-Marti Vaher on the transit corridor of organised crime in Estonia. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We all know that since 2007, passengers with a cash value of EUR 10000 or more have to declare it to customs in accordance with a European Union regulation. This obligation to declare cash has been introduced to curb crime and increase security in the European Union through money laundering and the prevention of terrorism. We all know that the Republic of Estonia has a strategic role to play as the external border of the European Union. However, some cases show that this does not always work out best sometimes. In this context, we want to be smarter with specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U159	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'How do we prevent a situation where it is known that the case is the legalisation of Russian criminal money through Estonia, but we cannot prove it? ' I would like to start by saying that we cannot regard Estonia as a transit corridor for organised Russian crime. In my opinion, there are no generalisations in the case-by-case scenario addressed in this inquiry. However, we can certainly say that the potential cash transit is a serious challenge for the Estonian law enforcement authorities. This has, in fact, been being dealt with for quite a number of years, and steps have also been taken to prevent such practices. I will talk about this a little more specifically in answer to the third question. Now for a specific question. In the case of an international case, as referred to in the inquiry, where money laundering, pre-crime, is committed abroad, proof of this pre-crime is often extremely difficult. In money laundering criminal proceedings, the biggest problem in cross-border cases is the rule in the Code, according to which it is necessary to prove that the property has been obtained through criminal activity in order to convict a person. It is based on the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. The Supreme Court has also stressed in its judgments the need for proof of pre-crime. In this case, the perspective of the criminal case in Estonia depends on the ability of foreign law enforcement authorities to resolve the pre-crime. However, a number of procedures have had to be closed, as foreign law enforcement authorities have not been able to collect data on a possible pre-crime that would allow the prosecution of money laundering and, where possible, confiscation of the property subject to money laundering. Question 2: 'What legislation should we improve so that the aforementioned embarrassing cases with the participation of Estonian residents no longer take place? ' Speaking specifically about the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing law, which entered into force in 2008 and has been amended seven times, it is clear that this law needs to be further refined and further improved. It is necessary to introduce new provisions to regulate the problems encountered in practice. As you know, the Riigikogu is currently preparing a draft law 157, which is just the draft law amending the law. Perhaps the most important change is the framing of the concept of the so-called Institute of Administrative Confiscation, which I will not explain further, as it has already been introduced by the Minister of Finance in the Riigikogu. However, for further consideration, maybe a few additional comments. One point concerns financial intelligence units operating at the Police and Border Guard Board. The idea of giving the FIU the right to criminal proceedings has also been suggested for consideration. He doesn't have it right now. The need to provide an investigative function is precisely due to the speed of modern money laundering for the purpose of identifying money launderers and collecting evidence in criminal proceedings, it would be important that the necessary investigative activities can be started very quickly once the relevant content has been received. The time it takes for the FIU to assemble material, transmit it to investigative bodies, and decide on how to initiate proceedings can often be decisive. Criminals may be able to complete their transaction and take other steps to escape potential liability. What other steps could be taken in the legislative process? One way would be to change the definition of money laundering. It could also be considered whether not to waive the current requirement to prove pre-criminal money laundering, to which I have already referred. At present, the perspective of criminal proceedings in many cases has depended on the capacity of foreign law enforcement authorities. This amendment, of course, requires a thorough prior analysis. At the same time, attention should be drawn to one of the Council of Europe Conventions of 2005 on money laundering, the detection, seizure, confiscation and terrorist financing. Article 9, point 5, states that a prior or simultaneous conviction of a person is not necessary for the prosecution of money laundering, and paragraph 6 further specifies that. The Ministry of Finance has already made its presentation in February 2012, and the relevant draft, which will certainly be preceded by a proper analysis, is scheduled to be submitted by the Government of the Republic in autumn 2012. I have been talking about the issue of the proceeds of crime, the confiscation of this income, as an important priority for the almost year I have worked as a minister. This is an important measure in the fight against organised crime. As we know, we can now talk about crime, not as an act in itself, but, of course, as an act aimed specifically at obtaining material benefits. For this reason, it is certainly not only enough to detect crimes and punish criminals, but it is also very important that all activities are carried out to detect, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime. We can only consider confiscation regulation effective if it acts as a 'general preventive warning'. The problem of confiscating the proceeds of crime is often that suspicious assets cannot be linked to a specific crime, such as the property of a lucrative drug smuggler in a specific drug transaction. That is how this has been the subject of debate in Estonia, and I myself have come up with the idea of the Institute of Civil Confiscation. If criminal confiscation is part of a sentence and requires a person to be convicted, it is not necessary to prove the criminal offence because the confiscation order is directed against property and not against a particular person. There are a number of European countries where civil confiscation is implemented and successfully implemented. This process of civil confiscation is directed against property which has been the subject of a criminal offence or which is of dubious origin. The attachment of property to the offender is not necessary and the owner or holder of property of dubious origin must itself prove that he has acquired the property legally. In Estonia, as you know, the possibility of extended confiscation has already been implemented since 2007. These provisions are in our code. This is a step towards civil confiscation, as we have implemented § 832 (1) of the Penal Code, which means that the court will confiscate property that is supposed to result from the commission of criminal offences. It is, of course, a decision to make on a case-by-case basis. Question 3: 'Does the cooperation and capacity of the Tax and Customs Board, the Defence Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Financial Intelligence Unit today, in your opinion, be sufficient to combat the movement of suspicious money through Estonia? ' In answer to this question, I would like to assure you that the cooperation between our authorities in the field of the Ministry of the Interior and the Tax and Customs Board and the Public Prosecutor's Office has been very successful, very busy. This cooperation takes place daily and operationally. It is quite clear that the capacity for both money laundering and the detection of the proceeds of crime must be increased by the national authorities. We will certainly try to do so in the area of the Ministry of the Interior, and we have already taken steps to do so. We've already discussed this here. 2010-2011. In 2008, the Financial Intelligence Unit of the Police and Border Guard Board has actively cooperated with the Tax and Customs Board to prevent cash transport to Russia. A joint operation was carried out, the FIU trained customs officials to detect errors and inconsistencies in cash declarations more effectively. Cooperation has also started to develop a guide to the internal working procedures of customs officials relating to the transport of cash. Now for the financial intelligence unit's administrative capacity. There are currently 17 employees in this office. The possibilities provided by law to control transactions suspected of money laundering are sufficient and must state the good reputation that the FIU has developed at international level. The competence of Estonian law enforcement authorities has also been positively assessed by the Committee of Experts of the 3rd round of the Council of Europe's evaluation round, the report was an evaluation report on anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing measures. I would like to address the fourth and fifth questions together. 'How exactly was moving suspicious money through AS Tavid in this case? Could Meelis Atonen, a leading reform party, who is also a member of the management of this company, use his influence in politics to "gone" this case? How much could AS Tavid have benefited from this transaction? How much cash is transferred across the Estonian-Russian border over the last few years? ' As far as this particular case is concerned, there is a request that you address the law enforcement authorities. This, of course, concerns the prosecutor's office, which has the authority to disclose specific cases. However, as far as the amount of cash moving across the Estonian-Russian border is concerned, according to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, these figures have been as follows: EUR 525 million in 2008, EUR 192 million in 2009 and EUR 330 million in 2010 and EUR 340 million in both years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U161	Thank you very much. We're going to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Just a factual explanation. Can you tell me, the man who got caught at the border with the millions, what was his future destiny? Was he released and given this money or what happened to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U163	I don't know what happened to that particular person right now. As I have already said, with regard to a particular case, you will receive from the law enforcement authorities all the information they can disclose. That is, of course, when it comes to non-criminal matters. If criminal proceedings are ongoing, the information is subject to very clear limitations and will be decided by the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U164	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U165	Thank you. Good Minister, I would like some clarification. Does Estonia have statistics on the average cash turnover per year? I am not talking about natural persons who withdraw smaller amounts from their accounts, but from a certain amount. For example, compared to another country in the European Union, is it proportional or is it not? And the third point: what do you think, because the important emphasis is on controlling the origin of the money, is that enough for you now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U166	I think that when it comes to criminal return, money laundering, its control is never sufficient, especially in our developing country. A lot can be done here. I have today introduced some ideas concerning the different confiscation institutes and the competence of the FIU to investigate, to criminal proceedings. Of course, the question of resources arises immediately, the capacity, the brains on the state side, the Financial Intelligence Unit at the Police and Border Guard Board, the criminal revenue unit that was just created. The first part of your question is certainly important. Estonia stands out with this in the 2012 Yearbook on Security Policy, as well, that, for example, 500 euro bills have been allocated to Estonia in one year. We are at the forefront of this in Europe. This means that the issue of possible money laundering, possible cash transit, facing our country, is very serious and significant. As I have already said today, the proposed legislative changes must therefore be taken seriously and moved forward with them as soon as possible. Of course, we need to increase our capabilities from all sides. The questions and questions you have asked are fully relevant. So thank you very much! I hope that I have been able to explain some of our thoughts and ideas, which we can already discuss further in this House. The draft concerning the Institute for Administrative Confiscation is already in the process, the first reading of which, as far as I know, took place at the beginning of February. The development of the Institute for Criminal Confiscation and possible changes are another issue, and there are ideas about this. We can discuss this separately. This is part of the legislative improvements that came into force in 2007 and have already been tested in practice in many ways. A separate issue is the subject of civil confiscation, which I briefly addressed today. So there's actually a lot of ideas and ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U167	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. No further questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The seventh inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U168	Next, you can use a free microphone. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U169	I'm gonna sit there and wait for you and the hammer to signal you can sign up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U170	It's not mandatory to hit a hammer before a free microphone. The President of the Riigikogu is indeed in the habit of doing so. But if you want to come and talk, you can do it after my proposal without a hammer strike. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U171	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You all remember very well that when the United States elected a new president just over three years ago, we discussed here in Estonia what option would be better for Estonia, whether McCain or Obama. From those articles in the newspapers and blogs it seemed that most felt that McCain would be better for Estonia, but Obama came. Of the two possible options, less favourable was the case. But yes, there was such a discussion. Yesterday, Presidential elections were held in the Russian Federation, and today we could say whether or not we have been lucky with the new President. I would like to give my opinion on this. Everything has its place in the world, each system has its own coordinates. One cannot demand, although some perhaps dream of Hillary Clinton becoming President of the Russian Federation. It's out of the question. We need to be realistic and look pragmatically at what options were at all. There were five men to choose from, and three of them had no chance of even reaching the second round. Socio-democrats, Mironov, in any case, calls his party a social democracy, saying that the Nordic scheme, such as that of Sweden, is wrong and that they are seeking something else. What do you expect from them? As far as Zirinovsky is concerned, we can hardly talk about Estonia having had any interest in becoming President. I'm about to rule out that possibility. Now Mikhail Prohhorov. Russia still remembers very well how the whole Russian people were robbed in the mid-1990s using the yokk schemes and how 20 or 30 people became billionaires. It will take 12 or 18 years for generations to come, first and foremost, to value money, but to forget about this origin study in the back room somewhere. So it was possible for Putin and Zjuganov to meet in the second round. I wonder if any of us in this Chamber of Riigikogu, even serious Estonian politicians, could say that if we compared Putin and Zjuganov, the future Communist Russia would have been better from our point of view than Russia, which is now developing, developing relations with Europe, liberalising, becomes NATO's partner in Afghanistan, for example, and everything else? So, in summary, we can be pleased that five potential candidates became president of Vladimir Putin. We hope that, from a fresh start, we will be able to establish a much more productive and positive relationship with our eastern neighbour than has been the case so far. Let's hope no one suddenly ruins them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U172	Thank you very much. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U173	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This week is quite unique in Estonian history. We are faced with a teacher strike that has already taken the dimensions of a general strike, which has been joined by a number of very important agencies expressing their support. Supporters of a teacher's strike include parents who have encouraged teachers to strike. They've told kindergarten teachers to close the doors, of course. Among the supporters are also grandparents who are worried about their tiny offspring, as they are concerned that there are not enough teachers. For example, considering ACTA's action and a year or more ago disputes about tatters, it can be said that citizens have more and more courage to take a stand and show their resentment when they find that something is not quite in place. There have been a lot of discussions about teachers' salaries, which have generally collapsed into two arguments. Firstly, teachers' demands are too high; we do not have such sums to raise the wages of such a large number of people to the average level, whether in one or two years. If we were to raise salaries for so many people at once in the public sector or in the public sector, we would be in the same position as Greece very quickly. The second argument, which has sounded quite widely: in fact, there is more money for teachers, but either local authorities or inefficient school networks or large school constructions, as the Minister of Education has confirmed today, have eaten this money. These are statements that have sounded as an objection to teachers' desire to receive a slightly more normal salary. Looking ahead from behind, it may be true that at different times more investments have been made than wages have been raised. But let's remember where we came from. We came from a situation where it was not possible to cater at school canteens. We came from a situation where the schoolhouses were very cold. We came from a situation where some schools worked on temporary surfaces where children did not have gyms and where very many activities of interest were not possible. So ten years of quite large construction work in schools and kindergartens have been completely understandable. It has been argued that if we shut down a large number of schools, mainly speaking of upper secondary schools, it is as if there was a teacher's salary. That, too, is a false statement. If we take 10th, 11th and 12th grade out of school and divide the teachers' load standards by holding on to our teachers, then the money really hasn't been saved. The school house must still be heated, and usually the same teachers will continue to work in the building. The third statement: if we raise the pay of teachers, we should use such resources to bring Estonia to the brink of the crisis. I believe we have heard enough that the Estonian state is already so rich that it can help Greece, it can provide support to Portugal and Ireland, and it can increase its defence expenditure budget sharply to 2% of GDP. And we can set an example in many other areas. The only thing we have to admit with sadness is that the salaries of our teachers are, according to the OECD, fourth from behind. Therefore, alongside these praises, we could still raise teachers' salaries. I believe that we are rich enough to pay a little more and no longer to be the fourth country from behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-05_U174	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The free microphone's closed. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. Have a nice night, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 6.25 p.m.
