ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U2	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, which provides for two fundamental amendments. The first change concerns the fact that the size of the income limit, which is not at all large, is 100% for the first family member and 80% for the other family members, which is obviously illogical, because the other family members do not eat or wear clothes less than the first family member. Our proposal is to set a limit of living of 100% for all family members. The second amendment concerns the fact that child support is, according to the legislator's point of view, included in the family income, which deprives very many families with children of the possibility of applying for income support. We propose to exclude child support from income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U3	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U4	Madam President! On behalf of the 13 members of the Central Party Group, I will address an inquiry to Mr Siim Valmar Kiisler, Regional Minister. The inquiry concerns the use of European Union money. In January, the National Audit Office prepared a report on the use of European Union funds in developing social infrastructure for municipalities and cities. The National Audit Office audited how local authorities have used European Union grants allocated to them for investments under the KOIT scheme and for investments for information and advice centres and open youth centre projects. The funds allocated to the implementation of the HOME scheme have been available to municipalities for the construction and renovation of schools, kindergartens, cultural houses and so on. The European Union's grant has built and renovated buildings and structures that are used to provide important public services in different parts of Estonia. The projects should result in an improved consumption of services and an increase in the number of services provided. However, according to the audit, the overall picture is not so flawless. In the view of the National Audit Office, there are problems in controlling the allocation and use of the grant funds observed in the audit, which need to be solved for the next funding period of the European Union 2014 to 2020. At national level, there is currently no precise overview of the location of the local authorities' social infrastructure sites, which makes it impossible to assess how competition between the sites could affect the results of the projects as a whole. We will therefore put some questions to the Minister for Regional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U5	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U6	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 12 members of the Central Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture. The inquiry concerns the non-transparent use of the PRIA grant. The Agricultural Registers and Information Authority (PRIA) is a government agency governed by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Estonia, which collects and processes, within the limits of its competence, applications for support for agriculture and rural development and the European Fisheries Fund, selecting projects and organising grants. The Office shall be accountable to the Minister for Agriculture, who, through the Chancellor of the Ministry of Agriculture, directs and coordinates the activities of the Office and supervises it in a professional capacity. The activities of the PRIA have been criticised for many years, and the following case also describes the Minister's inability to reliably improve the functioning of the PRIA. The South Circuit Prosecutor's Office opened a criminal case in 2010. Uno Pauts, who had built a land improvement company for more than a thousand hectares of Aardla polder, was the subject of an investigation and, allegedly suspiciously, directed a large amount of euro money requested from the PRIA. We want to be clear on this. The grants have been issued for 4 million kroons, but the Minister refused to explain the "Spectator" on the national broadcasting programme. I hope he will provide us with exhaustive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If the enquiries comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On February 8, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Secondly, it is announced that the Chairman of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Attention, honourable members of the Estonian-China parliamentary group. Today, after the plenary session, a new president of the Estonian-China parliamentary group will be elected in this Chamber. The callers are Sven Sester, Laine Randjärv and Kalev Kallo. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 90 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, none 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U8	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry for Foreigners to determine the circumstances surrounding the granting of temporary residence permits begins. I would like a presentation by Peep Aru, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the referral of this draft to second reading at its meeting on 23 January. As we know, there was a time until 10 a.m. on 23 January. At that time, all political groups received the names of the main members and alternates of the Commission in order to fill the blanks in paragraph 2 of the draft. These names were decided by the Commission to be included in the draft. No other amendments were received from outside, although the Commission itself finalised two amendments. We have tabled one amendment on the title. In the new version of the title, we stated that it was a committee to be set up to identify the circumstances in which foreign nationals were granted temporary residence permits. As a result of the discussions, we tabled a second amendment which amends and clarifies the text as a whole. First of all, in point 1, we specified the purpose. The purpose of the draft decision for the Committee of Inquiry is to identify the circumstances involved in granting temporary residence permits to foreigners for business purposes and as a member of the management body of a legal person registered in Estonia. These terms are derived from the Aliens Act. In point 3, we have specified the tasks of the Committee of Inquiry, because they must be very clear and precise, so that the Commission's work can be effective. We have also completed the draft with a new point 4, according to which the Commission is guided in its activities by the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and the Administrative Procedure Act and the principles of good administration in matters not covered by it. This provision is necessary in order to determine which legislation the Commission is guided by in its organisational activities. In addition, there is the deadline set out in point 5 for the Commission to submit its final report on its work to the Riigikogu and the public. This deadline was 1 June as a result of the Commission's discussion. Why June 1st? It was a consensual choice. There were different proposals, the Commission's work was to be given time from two months to almost the end of the year. We also thought that, as we know, the session would end on 14 June. If the Commission's work is transferred by 1 June, it will also be properly discussed here in the Riigikogu. The new point 6 states that the technical service of the work of the Commission is provided by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The text has also been supplemented by a new point 8 according to which the decision will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The Commission's proposal is to put this draft decision to a vote today and to adopt it as a decision. In any case, our committee is in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U11	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have been able to think for quite a while and still have not been able to explain to myself what this Commission is for. The investigating bodies have acted, the Corruption Commission has acted. What's there to discuss until June 1st? I don't know. I'm gonna be sick.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U12	Thank you, Tarmo! You'll have time to think about it until the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U13	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U14	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It is a fixed-term committee, or more or less it is clear what time it will have to come up with a result. But is there an understanding of when this Commission will meet for the first time in the event of a positive decision on its creation today or at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U15	After the decision has entered into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U16	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U17	Thank you. Dear waitress, Will the Commission also examine the technical aspect of issuing residence permits? There are a couple of criminals among the people who have been granted a residence permit. It is not difficult to see what information comes out of Google after entering their names and dates of birth. However, they were granted residence permits. Will the Commission examine this technical aspect of why this has happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U18	Thank you. First of all, I think that the country of Estonia will never reach such a distance that decisions will be made on the basis of the search made in Google. That's my personal opinion. However, if you read exactly the Commission's tasks, it is stated here that this committee can examine whether the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board in issuing residence permits and following-up issued residence permits have been lawful, purposeful and of public interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U19	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague, waitress! When you discussed the deadline for the Commission's action, was it also under discussion that the companies involved in obtaining residence permits for entrepreneurship had to submit the annual report on 1 July, i.e. the fictitious nature of these residence permits could not be assessed in any way by 1 June?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U21	There was talk of this, but it did not become an important obstacle why the deadline could not be June 1. As we know, the Commission has the right to ask companies for the necessary material before the annual report is approved, because in fact, summaries have been made or are being made in all companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U22	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U23	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not been through the idea of setting up a permanent committee of inquiry? Members of the Riigikogu can still do all kinds of tricks here, so the work should continue on this committee. There's a lot of people in line here. I'm not going to name them by name. But why don't we set up a real permanent investigative commission, and if anyone can pull some kind of scumbag, they'll take him to the counter, cuff him, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U24	No, that is not the point that has not moved within the Commission. However, we have discussed this, as I said at first reading on this board, that perhaps it would be useful for the future to argue and extend the mandate of the so-called Committee on Corruption. This could probably partly solve the problem of whether a special committee of inquiry is needed in each case in the future. But it's a question of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U25	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Such a technical question: who will convene the Commission once the decision has entered into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U27	I think it's a rule of law, but I owe you an exact answer. This was not discussed in the Commission. If we take out the Rules of Procedure Act, we will certainly see the right answer there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U28	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U29	Thank you. The Riigikogu should also consider its budgetary implications for each decision. Point 6 of the decision states that the service of the committee is provided by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, who will, if necessary, order expert analyses, opinions, etc. Do you have any idea of what this decision will cost the Estonian state from the moment that the person elected as chairman of the committee receives a higher salary during his term of office?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U30	Yes, apparently, the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee will receive a higher salary, just as it is intended for the chairmen and vice-chairmen. In addition, there will certainly be costs for the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. But I would like to say that even when the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is being made, such opportunities must be taken into account, because there is a legal possibility to set up committees of inquiry and, if I remember correctly, also committees of concern. Consequently, the coverage of these costs must also theoretically be included in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U31	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U32	Thank you. Dear waitress, In response to Andres Anvelt's question, you said that although the company annual reports will be completed by 1 July, the Commission will be able to ask these companies earlier. Would you clarify what powers the Commission has to force the companies concerned to submit their annual report several months before the legal deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U33	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U34	Once again, when we look at the law, which states the possibilities of the Committee of Inquiry, it is written that everyone must appear and the required information must also be provided. I don't know how to say it by heart. There is certainly no need for an entire annual report to solve this problem; there is a need to ask for the part that interests the Committee of Inquiry. I'm sure those answers will be provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U35	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If you look at the Commission's tasks, it becomes clear that you will not be able to process all the materials in one day or a week. It takes a long time to obtain and extract materials, as well as to analyse data. You have also set a deadline for yourself: the report must be completed by 1 June. Did the Commission discuss how this will be done when, for example, it turns out that it is not possible to do this work and that more time is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U36	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U37	Firstly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not set itself any time limit, although it proposes to adopt a draft decision at second reading stating that the deadline for the submission of the final report on the work of the Committee of Inquiry is s. a June 1st. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this is a sufficient time to be clear when working intensively. If this committee of inquiry is not able to manage properly in time, it must therefore return to the Riigikogu to amend the draft decision. I mean, there's a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U38	Thank you. Honourable performer! When this committee is set up, it completes its work and presents some kind of report, to whom would this report be intended? Is it intended for the public or is it intended for the Riigikogu for information? What's up with that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U39	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U40	It will be submitted to the Riigikogu and then we will have to see what we decide on the basis of this report. If there are facts that attract the attention of the investigative authorities, they can undoubtedly use them as well. This report is public to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U41	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Is the time when the Commission will be set up not too long if we see that the event that we are talking about is still taking place quite several months ago? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U42	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U43	Thank you. This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In answering one question, you said that the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee would also be elected, who would receive a higher remuneration. But I look at the law of the Riigikogu's house and rules of procedure. I do not see that a chair is elected to the committee of inquiry, but that a rapporteur is elected from among the members of the committee, who will later report on this report. Is it true that the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee of inquiry are elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U45	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U46	Of course, the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee of inquiry shall be elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U47	Thank you. Good waitress! The draft decision was initiated by the opposition groups. Why didn't the coalition do it? Don't you care about the question? I understand there are members of all the political groups, but why the opposition, but not the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U48	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U49	Why should I start expressing my personal opinion here as a representative of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U50	Thank you. Since this draft was initiated, as I understand it, by the opposition parties, I asked the question: did you also discuss the possibility that perhaps there is a question of the salary supplement that is wanted to be given to the chair and vice-chairman, rather than the question of substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U51	Thank you. It was not discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U52	No further questions. Thank you very much, Peep Aru! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U53	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this remote control primarily because I have the honour to be a member of one of the special committees of the Riigikogu, namely the Committee on Corruption, as it is called in the national language. The Committee on Corruption has been very active in this matter, with the scandal on residence permits, as it has been named in the national language, in recent months. It must be acknowledged that if we want to study a subject, the decision-making mechanism of the Riigikogu is probably too long-term. Perhaps, in order to look better and nicer in the eyes of society, we should consider mechanisms for the rapid establishment of any working bodies when we need to conduct some kind of investigation, in particular, to examine our own affairs. Because it is clear that the scandal on residence permits has reached a phase where there is no point in talking about what actually happened. We would rather discuss today why Peter Võsa is doing "Võsareporter" and Tarmo Leinatamm is conducting every night or why Aivar Riisalu is going on some weekends somewhere on stage. The subject goes wide, covering what a member of the Riigikogu can and cannot do. Perhaps it would be most reasonable for society if a member of the Riigikogu died immediately, for the simple reason that he is currently a member of the Riigikogu and, sadly, he is also paid for his work. After all, in the current situation, residence permits are clearly a yokk scheme. The fact that someone was applying for Parliament, while he was engaged in some kind of business that was aimed at the eastern market, by the way, the entrepreneurship aimed at the eastern market is actually important for the Estonian economy, of course, there has been no violation of law. The question arises, what exactly are we discussing in this committee? In my opinion, the question arises of how sensible it is for a reasonable person to apply for the Riigikogu at all. If you're here, you know exactly that your term of office begins and ends on a particular date. I admit honestly and frankly that we have to wonder if it's worth ripping ourselves out of a normal life. I assume that the 101 people who are elected here have been a little known in society in the past (with the exception of perhaps some people who have already been busy sharing notes at the party office with blood youths and, as a result of this, have received a good placement on the list, they may be less well known in society), in general, society is quite a respected part of this society. And then four years of naming you for living, breathing and being there isn't very reasonable. Then one day we'll get 88 party broilers and 13 people who haven't figured out yet to accept a fixed-term contract for getting four years off the rails is not very reasonable. This knowledge, by the way, is gonna rock the soul of all of you at one point anyway, because I assume that my ladies and gentlemen are all thinking people. In any case, I want to wish the Commission a job boost, but I say frankly and frankly that we need to think seriously about who we are, where we are, why we are and where you are going, Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U54	Thank you very much. Any more calls? Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Our group, as the initiator of this draft, naturally supports the adoption of this decision. I would add so much that special committees have been set up here several times in a long time. At the moment, I think that the setting up of such a special committee is very justified, especially because this topic is one way out of the working mail of the ordinary Riigikogu committees and, on the other hand, because even from the executive power, even the Ministry of the Interior, we have received very different messages-assessments of how one or the other thing went. To be honest, I think that sometimes committees have been set up here on a slightly different basis. There was an interesting comparison last week: a Swedish bank with its branch in Estonia listened to the people's will and kept one ATM, but despite similar and even more powerful protests, the Rescue Board is still shutting down its rescue commandos. So it doesn't matter much, but the reaction is different. The same story has sometimes been here when the Riigikogu has submitted to the so-called general will and to the knowledge that a commission could be formed, knowing in advance that there is not much to hope for. This is certainly not the case with this committee, in my view. In other words, I wish the Commission strength and I believe that people working there are doing their job conscientiously and competently, also offering substantive solutions that are right. I want to add another one. This topic has remained somewhat strangely up, I have not received the right answer. You see, the residence permit scandal has turned out to be a bit more than that, much more serious accusations have also arisen against one of our fellow Members who belonged to the IRL Group and decided to abandon the work of the Riigikogu. These charges relate to his membership of a board of state companies. I was deeply impressed by what Minister Parts said here. When it came to the question of whether, before this politician was appointed to the board of this state company, he was also engaged in an investigation into possible conflicts of interest, Minister Parts considered it sufficient that the declaration of financial interests had been submitted and that was all. If that's what they say, it's really bad. In my opinion, the declarations of financial interests are therefore made so that the Minister, if he appoints someone to the Council, would know that there is no conflict of interest. It is not just a question of assigning politicians to something that some people think is right and others do not think is right again. It is also a question of involving people from other sectors in the boards of state companies, nor should they have a conflict of interest. Everyone will probably understand that if, for example, an entrepreneur is appointed to the board of a large state company, be it the Port of Tallinn, and the occupation of this company does not coincide with the occupation of the port, it can be done with a calm heart. But if someone, anyone, a businessman or a politician, has been mentioned as one of the types of business and business, then the minister should think on several occasions whether or not he will appoint this partymate or any other person to this council. It's better he doesn't. I think that this problem has been largely avoided, but in this case, both the attitude of the Minister and the appointment of this former MP were very questionable. I think that both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act have things to deal with here and examine to ensure that declarations of economic interests are not fictitious but substantive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U56	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that my singing voice isn't the most pleasant, but it's empty. I still come and say that I do not understand why this committee is needed. People are under investigation, people have been charged, suspicions. What do you mean, it's not? Don't you read the papers? The party has made its assessment. People have taken political responsibility, and they're gone. What do we need to trample the wind out here until June 1st? I very much want to be in the Chamber on 1 or 2 June and listen to the miracle that has been written here, which the Commission hopes to discover here, which has not yet been discovered. I do not see any sources, any addition to the remit of this committee. I understand a lot of gentlemen here have worked for the police and your hands are itching for their specialty. Luckily, I get my satisfaction in my specialty almost every night. So start consulting companies and beat as much as you want! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U58	Thank you very much. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U59	Madam President! So I came here to beat up the remote, as my colleague Tarmo Leinatamm urged us. I don't know who else he meant, Kalle. But I want to draw attention to two things, good friends. Firstly, the public and society are waiting for an answer from us, for example, on how the influence of executive power was still taking place to increase the quota of business-related residence permits from 120 to 180 at a time when there was already a question of abuse of the quota of board members. This is an issue that certainly could not be clarified by the Committee on Corruption, because we have clearly defined obligations in law: declarations of the financial interests of the members of the Riigikogu and operating and operating restrictions. This is a question that needs an answer, whether we want it or not. I will also say for the information of my colleague, Mr Leinatammele. He claimed that people had been charged and everything. The accusations concern another case in the Republic of Estonia, the trade in power in relation to the Port of Tallinn, the possible taking-off of bribes, whatever. This does not concern the exploitation of residence permits as a business in the Republic of Estonia. If you read the duties of this committee of inquiry in the draft, you will see that these tasks do not concern merely the activities of members of the Riigikogu, such as Raudse or Kabritsa. I think that the Committee on Corruption has given it the necessary dimension; it has given its opinion. We are talking about residence permits as, first of all, one measurable size of the security of the Estonian state and, second of all, the legitimacy of the activities necessary for our economy, the procedures relating to these residence permits, whether or not this law is currently what it is, whether or not it can be abused. The same committee of inquiry must answer these questions; it does not have to cuff anyone. I certainly also want to respond to my good colleague Aivar Riisalu. I do not quite agree with you that we should begin to think very deeply in the Riigikogu whether we made the right decision when we came here, and whether there should actually be 88, as you said, an amoebile who has no previous experience in life, and the rest could be people with life experience. I don't think we're really better than the people who choose us. We have a duty. We have a duty because we have been chosen here. Before we let ourselves be chosen here when we run for office, and after we get here, we have a duty to monitor what we do as a sidekick. The Head of the Riigikogu Ene Ergma has made it very clear that the main job of a member of the Riigikogu is the Riigikogu. All other activities, as the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu states, must under no circumstances even seemingly create a situation as if a corrupt relationship or conflict of interest were possible. Even seemingly, such a situation must not arise, not just in substance. One thing is the jock scheme, the other is that we must leave the public, our voters, a clear understanding and a sense that we behave honestly in our daily activities, that we do not play the game of sitting on two benches. That's the question. I think that the fact that the best people from our society are coming to the Riigikogu, I really hope so, will remain this way after we have examined the real interests of some of our colleagues in reaching the Riigikogu and made them clear to ourselves. There's nothing wrong with that. Each organisation must be capable of self-cleaning. You don't have to think that every time it's some kind of malicious attack on the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U60	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Mr Tarmo asked what was the point of this committee. In a democratic country, there is a plurality of opinions. When you walk around Estonia and communicate with people, on very many occasions people ask what is the point of the Riigikogu. But the Riigikogu still works. In this sense, it is very clear that the value of a democratic state is specific opinions. Andres here spoke quite thoroughly about why this committee should be created in the first place. I want to make one more point. The activities of members of the Riigikogu need not only to be legal and ethical, but also to appear ethical. Today there are quite a few questions that have arisen in connection with this scandal. This is what the Commission needs to answer these questions. It seems to me that Tarmo Leinatammel has more information about this scandal, and he is certainly willing to share it with the Commission. So I really hope we meet Tarmo there already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U62	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I liked the teacher's statement in school that it's not the one who knows everything, it's the one who knows what's right. In the meantime, I have looked and I will now try to give an exhaustive answer to the doubts that have arisen here in the meantime. First, the first sitting of the committee is called by the President of the Riigikogu. Secondly, it was pointed out that suddenly the deadline was not long enough because the annual reports of companies had not been completed by then. I read the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 22 'Commission Rights' (2) 'The Board of Investigation has the right to invite persons before the Commission and to request the information and documents necessary for the performance of its duties. The invited person is obliged to appear, explain and answer questions. The information and documents requested by the Commission shall be submitted by the deadline specified by the Commission. In paragraph 23 'Advertising the work of the committee of inquiry', paragraph 1: 'The failure to appear on the invitation of the committee of inquiry without due cause, to provide information or documents, or to provide explanations or to answer questions shall be punishable by a fine of up to 300 fine units. ' I would also like to point out that such harsh lawn moorings are only about the work of the committee of inquiry, and that is not the case with other committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U64	Thank you. Any more calls? I will close the negotiations because there are no more calls. We will examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission proposes that it be fully taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which proposes that it be fully taken into account. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. We are preparing for the vote. I am voting on draft 149 of the Riigikogu's decision of the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to establish the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry for Foreigners to determine the circumstances surrounding the granting of fixed-term residence permits. Please take a stand and vote. by 84 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U65	We will go to the next item on the agenda. For this purpose, the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre has been submitted by the Committee on the Environment. I ask Karel Rüütel, vice-chair of the Environment Commission, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee held its meeting on 17 January 2012. The committee was chaired by Tõnis Lukas, the chairman of the committee. Annely Akkermann, Valeri Korb, Tõnis Kõiv, Rein Randver, Karel Rüütli, Jaanus Tamkivi, Terje Trei and Rainer Vakra and Commission advisers Vivi Aleksejeva and Elle Kaur took part in the meeting. Marika Target, chief specialist in the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, was also invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Commission had three items on its agenda. Firstly, we discussed the preparation of the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act. Within the framework of the second item, we discussed the presentation of a draft appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Other issues were also discussed: discussion of the work plan of the Committee on the Environment for the first half of 2012 and information on the exit session to the Environmental Information Centre. The draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act will be presented to you at first reading tomorrow. This draft concerns agricultural packaging and the introduction of agricultural plastics. I will discuss in more detail the draft appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. For your information, regarding the end of the term of office of the member of the Supervisory Board of the Riigikogu Indrek Raudse State Forest Management Centre, the Committee on the Environment has proposed to all political groups to appoint their candidates as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Letters were sent to all political groups. The Commission received the names of two candidates. Firstly, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union presented the candidacy of Tõnis Lukas; secondly, the Group of the Centre Party presented the candidacy of Rainer Vakra. Of course, there was a debate in the committee on which candidate would be better, and if the Riigikogu appoints two members to the council of the Riigimetsa Management Centre, the balance between the opposition and the coalition should be ensured. The representatives of the political groups of the Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party in the Commission considered that it would certainly be reasonable to give the opposition an opportunity as well. There is such good practice in the Riigikogu that if the Riigikogu appoints more than one member to the council of a state enterprise, the representation of both the opposition and the coalition must be guaranteed. In support of Rainer Vakra, members of the opposition pointed out that Rainer Vakra has great experience as a district manager in Nõmme. If we look at Nõmme, there are really more trees there than there are people, and Rainer Vakra can actually be considered a ranger than Nõmme's district manager. But the statements of support also sounded in favour of Tõnis Lukas. It was pointed out that the former mayor of Tartu, Roman Mugur Plasku, from the rooftop of Tartu, said that Tartu's beautiful park forest could also be used to call the mayor of Tartu a forest ranger. In this sense, both candidates were equal. But now to the vote. The votes were divided as follows: 5 members of the Commission voted in favour of Mr Lukas and 3 members of the Commission voted in favour of Mr Vakra. Further decisions taken by the Committee on the Environment. Firstly, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that Tõnis Lukas, a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, be appointed as a member of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the name of Tõnis Lukas, a member of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Thirdly, to submit a draft of the Riigikogu decision " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre" to the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 18 January 2012. Fourthly, the decision of the Riigikogu to appoint Karel Rüütli, Vice-President of the Environment Committee, as the transferor of the "Member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre." Fifth, if the Executive Board of the Riigikogu decides to process the draft "Announcement of a Member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre" and appoints the Environmental Committee as the lead committee, appoint Karel Rüütli, vice-president of the Environmental Committee as the rapporteur for the draft, propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to put the first reading of the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 7 February 2012 and propose to the Riigikogu plenary to put the draft to the final vote and the Riigikogu to adopt it as a decision. If I may, I will read to you this draft decision of the Riigikogu 168: 'In connection with the end of the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Indrek Raude State Forest Management Centre and pursuant to § 49 (3) (1) and (5) of the Forest Act, the Riigikogu decides: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre Tõnis Lukas, member of the Riigikogu. ' I also note from the explanatory memorandum that the Riigikogu really appoints two members of the Riigikogu by decision to the Riigimetsa Majandus Keskus Council, on the proposal of the Environmental Committee. By decision of 10 May 2011, Riigikogu appointed Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Indrek Raudse as members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. According to § 49 (5) of the Forest Act, the mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu ends with the end of the term of the member of the Riigikogu. Indrek Riigikogu member's mandate as a member of the Riigikogu XII ended on 5 December 2011. It is therefore necessary to appoint a new member of the Riigikogu as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. The Committee on the Environment has decided at its meeting that this new member of the Riigikogu could be Tõnis Lukas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U67	Thank you very much. I inform the members of the Riigikogu that, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur during the 168 discussions. Let's get to the questions. Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I, as a new member of the Riigikogu, have realised that the Commission must take every decision on the basis of goodwill and what is best for the state. Consequently, I have two questions. Was the choice between the two candidates based on which was the best candidate for representing the Commission in the Council? That was the first question. The second question: was it not a criterion for being part of a coalition or opposition, or if you belong to a coalition, you have a 100% chance of becoming a member of the Council, but if you are in opposition, you do not have that chance at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U69	Thank you. Yes, indeed, there was a brief discussion in the Commission, although in fact more discussion would have been needed. I brought out the arguments on both candidates at the committee meeting. Of course, there is nothing to be done; in democracy, it is the one who has the power to decide. That's right. However, it does seem to me that the members of the coalition simply have more chances in the committees. That is why the coalition candidate, a member of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica, was elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U70	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. You have presented a beautiful overview of the Commission's protocol, but I do not know whether it was a little sloppy, that when you spoke about the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, you mentioned an expert on waste management in the Ministry of the Environment, but you did not accidentally mention the entire Commission. In order for everything to be very correct, perhaps you will also say who was the official of the Committee on the Environment who was in the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U72	Thank you for your attention. I also mentioned the advisers who were present at this committee meeting. But when I come to your urgent request, I will once again specify. The committee was chaired by Tõnis Lukas, the chairman of the committee. In the minutes of the Commission meeting Vivi Aleksejeva, who is an advisor to the Committee on the Environment. Annely Akkermann from the Isamaa and Res Publica, Valeri Korb from the Centre Party Group, Tõnis Kõiv from the Reform Party Group, Rein Randver from the Social Democratic Party Group, Karel Rüütel from the Social Democratic Party Group, Jaanus Tamkivi from the Reform Party Group, Terje Trei from the Reform Party Group and Rainer Vakra from the Centre Party Group and Elle Kaur, who is advisor to the Commission, took part in the committee meeting. Marika Target, chief specialist in the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, did indeed participate as an invited guest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U73	Thank you very much. Next question please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U74	Thank you. The State Forest Management Centre is a legally interesting organisation. Can you briefly give an overview of the statute of the State Forest Management Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U75	Thank you for your question. I was afraid you might ask. The Statute of the State Forest Management Centre was adopted in 2007 and regulates the work of the State Forest Management Centre. The State Forest Management Centre is a profit-making state institution operating in the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment. That's what I told you for information. In carrying out its tasks, the State Forest Management Centre represents Estonia. I bring out some legislation that regulates the activities of the State Forest Management Centre. The State Forest Management Centre is guided by the laws of the Republic of Estonia, European Union legislation, international conventions and treaties to which the Republic of Estonia has acceded, requirements, regulations and regulations of the Government of the Republic, regulations and decrees of the Minister of the Environment and relevant regulations of other ministers and, of course, this basic regulation. The State Forest Management Centre is located in Tallinn, the postal address is Viljandi road 18b. The addresses of these structural units of the State Forest Management Centre, which are not located at the location of the State Forest Management Centre, shall be indicated in the statutes of these other sub-offices. I would like to highlight some important aspects concerning the field of activity of the State Forest Management Centre. Its activities include, for example, forest management, reforestation, forest management and forest protection, forest use and exploitation for timber production, secondary use, recreation, hunting and research, sale of forest material and other forest products, processing and sale of forest products, cultivation and sale of forest vegetation and ornamental plants, storage and sale of tree seeds, creation of multi-faceted recreating facilities in the recreation areas of the State Forest Management Centre and management of forest use, landscape, heritage sites and conservation of protected natural objects...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U76	Thank you. If you don't mind, I might...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U77	Good waitress! I'm sorry to interrupt! According to § 72 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, it is necessary to limit the subject to the item on the agenda. I would also ask the questioners to stick to the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U78	Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U79	I am not talking about the question, the content of the answer went away from the discussion of this point. We are currently dealing with the appointment of a member, but not with the reading of the statute of the State Forest Management Centre. Please, Heljo Pikhof! Is it possible to get a microphone on Heljo Pikhof?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U80	Good manager! You may have a very clever face, but now you've become angry for nothing. How can you say that this question was not related to this item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U81	Thank you, Madam President. In general, we still want to know where we're assigning man. We have two candidates, we need to make the right choice. For that, we need to know more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have a direct question concerning the draft decision of the Riigikogu 168. The Preamble states that § 49 of the Forest Act is to be taken into account. I assume that § 49 of the Forest Act deals with the procedure for setting up the Council, its competences and the liability of its members. But all of a sudden you're going to be a little more specific about what it means because I don't have the materials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U83	Got it. We'll continue with the questions. Please, Helmen Hunter! Please, Eiki Nestor! Sorry, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U84	Yes, manager, I do have a procedural question. We don't just name a member, we name him somewhere. This raises a perfectly legitimate question as to where we call it. You guys just went the wrong way. This is no way to silence Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U85	Thank you for your comment. Please continue! Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U86	Thank you, good questioner! I promise I will be brief and I will not stop at this point for very long. But of course, the Forest Act regulates exactly what the work of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre looks like. If you don't mind, I'll introduce you to §49. The Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre is the highest management body that plans the activities of the State Forest Management Centre, organises the management of the State Forest Management Centre and supervises the activities of the management board. The composition of the Council shall be approved by the Government of the Republic by an arrangement for a period of three years. The council is nine members, the council consists of two members appointed by decision of the Riigikogu, two representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, one representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one representative of the Ministry of Finance and three experts on the proposal of the Minister of the Environment. For good reason, a member of the Council may resign before the end of his term of office and be replaced by a new member. The Riigikogu appoints the members of the Riigikogu by decision on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. The term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu ends with the end of the term of office of a member of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Minister of Finance may withdraw a member appointed by them before the end of their term of office if he has failed to fulfil his duties to a significant extent, has no opportunity to participate in the work of the Council or his employment or service relationship has ended. The members of the Supervisory Board shall elect from among themselves a Chairperson, who shall organise the activities of the Supervisory Board, and a Deputy Chairperson, who shall carry out the duties of Chairman in the absence of the Chairperson. The Board of the State Forest Management Centre shall have the competence to approve the development plan and the policies and to monitor compliance with them, to determine the number of members of the Management Board, to decide on the conclusion, amendment and termination of the contract with them, to approve the rules of procedure of the Management Board and to decide on the legal dispute with the members of the Management Board, to appoint the Chairman of the Management Board, to appoint a member of the Management Board, to approve the annual budget, to approve the annual report and to submit it to the Minister of the Environment together with a proposal for a share of the net profit to be entered in the State budget, to select an auditor, to review the audit results and submit it to the Minister of the Environment, to establish an audit committee and to approve its regulation to ensure that the Supervisory Board is consulted on the organisation of accounts, external and internal audit, the functioning of the internal control system, monitoring of financial risk management and the legality of operations, as well as on the preparation and approval of the annual report, on the basic regulation of the structure of the internal audit unit, on the annual work plan, on the composition, on the internal audit procedure and on the conclusion of the conclusion of the contract with the Director of the internal audit structure of the conclusion, modification or termination of the contract, modification or termination of the internal audit of the staff, approval, approval The Governing Council shall meet as necessary but at least once every three months. The procedure for convening and holding meetings of the Supervisory Board shall be laid down in the Statute of the State Forest Management Centre. The amount of the remuneration paid to the members of the Supervisory Board and the procedure for payment thereof shall be determined by the Government of the Republic by regulation. The members of the Supervisory Board shall be remunerated taking into account their participation in the meetings of the Supervisory Board and in the activities of the Supervisory Board. For the performance of its tasks, the Supervisory Board has the right to examine all documents of the State Forest Management Centre, as well as to verify the accuracy of accounts, the existence of assets, the compliance of the activities of the State Forest Management Centre with the law, other legislation and the statute of the State Forest Management Centre. Now there is one very important point that the members of the Council must definitely know. The members of the Council shall be jointly and severally liable for the damage caused to the State by the breach of the requirements of the law and the Statute and by failure to comply with their obligations. A member of the Council shall be relieved of his or her liability if he or she disagrees with the adoption of the decision on which the unlawful activity is based and if the disagreement is recorded in the minutes. The expiry date of the claim against a member of the Governing Council shall be five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U87	Thank you very much. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U88	Dear waitress, When we discussed this issue last time and called ladies and gentlemen Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Indrek Raudse as members of the Council, I remember that some of the good colleagues were interested in why only members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union may belong to this important council, but not members of any other party. Then the waitress, who was a good colleague, Tõnis Lukas, brought such a statement or parallel that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union had great favors in investigating forest brotherhood. I wonder if the Council, when discussing the new candidate, also paid attention to this aspect and what your personal opinion is whether you see the links between these two things, the management of the state forest and forest-brothering.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U89	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, forest-brothering is an extremely emotional issue. At present, I do not see a very large link or a common section between the State Forest Management Centre and the Forest Brotherhood, except that the forest brothers have ever been active in our forests and sought refuge there. However, the State Forest Management Centre is currently paying very much attention to heritage culture. So, in that sense, there's a common part right there. Forest Brotherhood is certainly not currently the main activity of the State Forest Management Centre. The main activity is still related to forest management; of course, attention will also be paid to heritage culture; various natural sites will be protected. The State Forest Management Centre has made Estonian forests open to all people who wish to visit the forest, in the forests managed by the State Forest Management Centre it is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U90	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U91	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As a member of a political party, Rainer Vakra and I naturally find that Rainer Vakra is a very tough man and would have been the right person for this council member. But as we heard, you supported Rainer Vakra's candidacy. Would you mind telling me why in your eyes, Rainer Vakra would have deserved a member of the council? I understand that the Minister can also present experts as members of the Council. Would it perhaps be a good idea to suggest to the Minister that he should then appoint Rainer Vakra as an expert on this council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U92	Thank you. Personally, Rainer Vakra seems to me to be extremely sympathetic. Indeed, I took the floor in support of him at the committee meeting. Rainer Vakra's favour is certainly in my view that he has studied environmental management and graduated from this specialty at Tallinn University, if I am not mistaken, in 2002. So in addition to having held a responsible position as a district manager in Nõmme, he has a professional education. But as far as the current Council is concerned, I will introduce it to the good questioner. Then we can think together and propose to the Minister what expert we could recommend to Rainer Vakra. Unfortunately, it does not mention which members of the Council have been appointed as experts by the Minister and what representatives of the Ministry of the Environment are, but it can never be asked by the Minister if he comes into this house. Members of the Supervisory Board are Chancellor Rita Annus, Member of the Riigikogu Jaanus Tamkivi, Construction Director of AS Comfort AE Andres Jalak, Member of the Riigikogu Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Board of the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association Mati Poll, Acting Deputy Chancellor of the Budget Policy of the Ministry of Finance Ivar Sikk and Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment Andres Talijärv.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U93	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U94	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have two questions. When Mr Allik asked his question, Tõnis Lukas was shaking his head. If I remember correctly, in May Tõnis Lukas said that the reason why the members of the IRL are included by the Riigikogu is only because they have a special relationship with the forest and the forest brotherhood was just one example. I found out that forest-brothering isn't exactly the most competent reason. Did the Commission discuss what special relationship IRL still has with the forest that only they should be part of this Council? Secondly, you read the Statute of the State Forest Management Centre, which states that the remuneration of a member of the Supervisory Board is to be determined by the Minister by regulation. Can you tell me how much this reward is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U95	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to comment on the relationship between the Fatherland and the Res Publica Union with the forest. I think this may have to be asked by their new chairman, Mr Reinsalu. However, in favour of Tõnis, I can say that the State Forest Management Centre is certainly not only engaged in logging or forest management. The State Forest Management Centre also pays a great deal of attention to environmental education, for example. I think that Mr Lukas is undoubtedly one of the best experts in Estonia who can contribute to these issues. As regards the remuneration of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, unfortunately, I am not familiar with this. However, I do believe that this can be learned from Internet discoveries if there is a deeper interest in it. This is not what we discussed in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U96	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As we know, the forest is one of Estonia's greatest riches and the administration of the State Forest Management Centre is essentially half of the Estonian forest. Therefore, the knowledge and objectives of the members of this council are also very important. Did you hear in the Commission the visions of both candidates, Vakra and Lukas, which, as a member of the Council, they would like to do to make our wealth even greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U98	Thank you. Indeed, as the good questioner rightly pointed out, Estonia is one of the most forest-rich countries in the world. Nearly half of our land is covered with forest, to be exact, 2.2 million hectares. In turn, about 40% of Estonia's forests belong to the Estonian state and are held, cultivated and managed by the State Forest Management Centre. You had a very good point. Unfortunately, we did not go so far in the Commission that we would have organised a separate trico round for the two candidates and in detail resolved the details in which one or the other is better, because at one point we were clear that the balance of forces was in place. Whoever has the power is also right, just as democracy has often become a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U99	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U100	Thank you. Although the manager indicated that he should ask if Lukas has ever been to the woods, I do not want to ask. I just want to ask you about the State Forest Management Center. My first point relates to the Act of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office has raised this issue and I am interested in how much the Committee on the Environment deals with it. The status of the State Forest Management Centre is one that does not fit well in our legal space. We have public bodies, public authorities, state-owned companies, everything is in place, but the State Forest Management Centre is something special. The National Audit Office has raised this issue. Has the Committee on the Environment discussed the status of the State Forest Management Centre? I am referring here to the fact that this issue has already been raised again in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U101	These audits of the National Audit Office have also been discussed in the Committee on the Environment and the discussion has been quite serious. Indeed, the State Forest Management Centre is not a normal state business institution. The State Forest Management Centre is a profit-making state agency and the activities of the State Forest Management Centre are regulated by the Forest Act. It is true that the State Forest Management Centre has recently undergone quite thorough restructuring, reforms. The greatest fear that many experts have expressed is precisely how the State Forest Management Centre is able to perform its tasks and whether the efficiency and profitability can always be set as the first criterion for the activities of the State Forest Management Centre, because the State Forest Management Centre has a wide range of tasks. But I think that what concerns Estonia's forests, forestry and also the management of state forests is, in the near future, an important and serious issue on which to focus. Of course, in order to maintain a balance in the country, which we actually often strive for very often, it is still necessary that there should also be a balance in the councils of various state enterprises, to which the Riigikogu sends its representatives in particular. In this sense, it would make sense if the opposition were also represented in the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. But there is nothing to be done, this time democracy has made such a decision, and we must take that into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U102	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I am pleased that this issue is being discussed quite thoroughly, it is being debated, because it is an institution that belongs to the state. Yesterday, the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal came here to answer questions. The inquiry concerned the transfer of EUR 46000 by the State Forest Management Centre to persons associated with the sports club Forest Friends. The minister was quite upset and upset that the Council had allowed such a move at all, because it was state money. At the same time, the State Budget Act states that the state institution must not actually make any donations at all. Why, then, does the Council not control the use of public money and do the members of the Council know what responsibility awaits them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U104	Thank you, good questioner! Some time ago, a good colleague, Helmen Kütt, asked me to read § 49 of the Forest Act, which regulates the work and activities of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Members of the Supervisory Board include members of the Riigikogu who are elected there. The last point dealt very clearly with responsibility. I understand that the DA's office is currently dealing with this issue. I don't have the latest information, I don't know exactly what stage of the procedure it is. Of course, the members of the Council have a very clear responsibility. The question is simply whether the budget of the State Forest Management Centre had been dealt with separately and whether the members of the Council drew attention to this and, if so, what position they eventually formed. Of course, this is a regrettable case. If there had been a representative of the opposition, perhaps this would not have happened. But these are all assumptions. I hope that we will quickly get precise and clear answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U105	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The State Forest Management Centre employs more than 800 people. When you read out who's in that council, I hear only the names of the members of the coalition from the politicians. Would you repeat who are members of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre? Perhaps there are some members of the opposition that I did not notice. What is there to lead, though, that only members of the coalition can be part of it? Please read again also management functions and structure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U107	Thank you, good questioner! I am not going to read all the members of the council again, but I will read the names of those who are politicians or members of the Riigikogu: Member of the Riigikogu Jaanus Tamkivi, member of the Riigikogu Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv and now additionally Tõnis Lukas, if we take this decision today. But the State Forest Management Centre is, of course, a very large organisation, and members of the Supervisory Board, as well as members of the Management Board of the State Forest Management Centre, have a great responsibility, given the size of the organisation they run and the role that the State Forest Management Centre plays in the lives of almost every person living in Estonia. I will briefly present the structure of the State Forest Management Centre so that you can have a better idea of the responsibility of the members of our elected council. The State Forest Management Centre is divided into sub-areas. The first is the field of plant and seed management. This includes the Department of Plant and Seed Management as well as AS Eesti Metsataim, where the State Forest Management Centre has a 60% stake. Through this company, a large part of our so-called forest renewal takes place, i.e. forest plants, plants. Of course, this organization runs the whole seed economy. The second area is nature conservation, which includes the Nature Conservation Department and the Sagadi Forest Centre. This is largely the environmental education centre through which environmental education is carried out. The fields of activity of forest management include forest management, nature conservation department, forest improvement department, hunting department, forest districts (for example, only 17 forest districts are in Estonia as a result of the reform of the State Forest Management Centre), land management service and forest management service. The next activity is forestry, which includes the forest management department, the forest management regions (Estonia is divided into three regions), the nature conservation department, the forest improvement department and the wood energy service. The next activity is timber marketing, which includes the Department of Wood Marketing and the Wood Measurement Service. Of course, the administration is specifically mentioned. The administration of the administration includes the document management department, the finance department, the real estate department, the information technology department, the communication department, the human resources department, the public procurement department and the legal department.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U108	Thank you very much. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Karel! I am sure that the Committee on the Environment, by making this decision to be appointed to the council of the State Forest Management Centre in place of former colleague Indrek Raudse, was indeed very difficult to choose from, because two very nice colleagues with historian education, Tõnis Lukas, and the environmental manager with education Rainer Vakra, are undeniably both suitable men for this council. But there are some members of your committee. How much feedback will the current members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre provide to the Commission? Will they regularly provide the Commission with an overview of what is happening in the Board of the State Forest Management Centre and what are the courses of action of the State Forest Management Centre? If this is not the case, have you discussed in the Commission that this could be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U110	Thank you, good questioner! That's a pretty good point. In fact, we have not discussed the activities of the State Forest Management Centre separately at the meetings of the Commission, and the members elected by us or appointed by the Minister have not provided the Environment Committee with an overview of this, but I think that this practice could or should be introduced. We have discussed the same audit report at committee meetings, for example, and therefore we have discussed different problems. However, at the beginning of the actual term of office, the Commission and I did a one-off session at the State Forest Management Centre. There are many new members of the Commission who had not been in contact with the activities of the State Forest Management Centre. There we were given a brief overview of the activities of the State Forest Management Centre. What to deny, apart from the theoretical part, we also dealt with the practical part, or did, as they say, put our hands in the ground, went and planted the forest with the Committee on the Environment. In this sense, very many members of the Commission received an overview of the nature of the State Forest Management Centre, but the debate and discussion about the specific nature of this organisation and the problems that this organisation contains could indeed be more significant in the Commission's activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U111	Thank you very much. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U112	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. Both good candidates are members of the Committee on the Environment. Did they withdraw from the vote or did they participate in it? The other side of the question: if they did not withdraw from the vote, is there no ethical contradiction or discord?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U113	Thank you. If I recall, yes, indeed, Rainer Vakra did not participate at all in this process, but Tõnis Lukas did. I do not think there is any ethical contradiction in this matter. The committee meeting was held, no one protested, and the decision was exactly what I read to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U114	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U115	Thank you, Madam President. From § 49 of the Forest Act, I read that the council includes two members appointed by decision of the Riigikogu, two representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, one representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one representative of the Ministry of Finance and three experts on the proposal of the Minister of the Environment. This point actually gives the impression that there are only three experts on the Board of the State Forest Management Centre, the rest being representatives or mentioned there. Despite all the respect for Tõnis Lukas, really from the heart of future respect, I wonder whether the Commission did not, however, pay attention in its debate to the environmental education of Rainer Vaikra and did not consider it a possible advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U116	Thank you. Of course, the more experts there are in the Board of the State Forest Management Centre, the more professional the work of the Council is. The choice made by the Ministry of the Environment, or the proposals made by the Minister of the Environment, I cannot comment. You have to ask the Minister for the Environment. In the Committee on the Environment, this debate did not go so far as to allow us to discuss the pros and cons of one or the other candidate in depth. In retrospect, it has to be said that maybe this should have been done, but we followed the proposals made by the political groups. It is also regrettable that there was no prior consultation or debate between the opposition and the coalition to be presented there. Unfortunately, the work of the Riigikogu does not include this practice that the best candidate must be chosen, the candidates who are proposed by political parties through their political groups are still elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U117	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You have really given a very thorough overview of the work of the Committee on the Environment on at least one point, but also on a broader scale. I'm sure you have a pretty long experience of dealing with environmental issues yourself. My question is as follows. The composition of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre is changing. How have you been, or how has the Environment Committee been satisfied with the work of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U119	Thank you. As I have already pointed out, we have not discussed very thoroughly the issue of the State Forest Management Centre in the Commission. I hope that, now that the chairman of the committee personally goes to the council of the State Forest Management Centre and takes responsibility for it, he will bring more of these issues and questions to the committee, and that it will be possible for the opposition, too, to express their opinions, to have their say and to draw attention to the problems concerning the activities of the State Forest Management Centre in general, in general. I, too, have once been a member of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre, and I have received my education in the field of forestry at the Agricultural University. I, too, sometimes have a heart full of pain, looking aside at developments in the State Forest Management Centre. I'm not saying that what was 20, 30, or 40 years ago, and those beliefs that have been embraced should be preserved, that they will be forever and ever. Of course, society is evolving, we need to move on. But the question is that the State Forest Management Centre has not only a profit institution but also has to earn income for the Estonian state, but also a wide range of social tasks in front of our society, our people. I hope that at some point the State Forest Management Centre will pay more attention to these issues and that the first preference is not always the question of how much profit is made and how effective they are, but, as they say, behind the trees there is a forest and we must also see what is a very clear part of each one of us much more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U120	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you for such a thorough presentation. I must thank you for not having heard such an in-depth discussion about the work and activities of the State Forest Management Centre in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Now the question. The Riigikogu presents two members to the Council. Liisa-Ly Pakosta is currently a member, and now it is likely that Tõnis Lukas will also be a member of the Council. The members of the Riigikogu have still been beaten by the public for being part of various councils and so on. In addition to the members of the Riigikogu, the Minister of the Environment appoints experts to the Council and they are also selected from among the members of the Riigikogu for some reason, these are Tõnis Kõiv and Jaanus Tamkivi. Do you think it is ethical that not only members of the Riigikogu, who are appointed by the Riigikogu by decision, are also appointed to the council as experts, members of the Reform Party Tõnis Kõiv and Jaanus Tamkivi as experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U122	Thank you, good questioner! It is very difficult for me to comment on the Minister's decisions, I do not know what the motives on which he has chosen these people. I think it is a question for the Minister when he comes to the briefing, or we are going to question him, and he has the opportunity to explain the strengths of one person or another who has been appointed to the Council and the arguments for which he has chosen this person. Of course, there are people on this list that I consider to be a good expert in forestry. We will take Andres Talijärve, who has worked in this field for a very long time and who is currently the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment. Or another member of the Supervisory Board Mati Poll, member of the Board of the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association, who is undoubtedly very competent in this field. Similarly, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, Ivar Sikk, who, given the size of the budget of the State Forest Management Centre and the budgetary policy to be implemented there, is certainly a good expert. However, in the case of a very large number of other members of the Council, the Minister himself should explain and justify why these people have been elected there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U123	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U124	Thank you. Honourable performer! I will also continue on the list of members of the Commission. I don't quite understand, but maybe the performer can explain. It says here that the members are two members of the Riigikogu, two representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, one representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one representative of the Ministry of Finance and three experts, who are not really experts, as I understand. But the question is, what's the name for the Ministry of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U125	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U126	Thank you, good questioner! Looking at the list of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, I can appoint you a representative of the Ministry of Finance, I can guess who is the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, but unfortunately, it is not quite stated here who is the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I'm gonna get a little stuck here. But when this report is over, I'm gonna go through the list and maybe I'll have a chance to call somebody and elaborate on it. Then I'll give you the exact answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Do you recall from your practice the appointment of a member of the Riigikogu to a council of a state-owned company that would have been discussed for so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U128	Thank you, good questioner! If this is discussed for such a long time, then this topic is simply so important and burning and moves the members of the Riigikogu so much. This shows that the next time we make such decisions, we already need to be even more comprehensive in the committee to select the best male sons and nieces to represent the Riigikogu on the councils of state enterprises.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U129	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Karel! You have told us in depth and broad about the State Forest Management Centre, you have opened up your great knowledge of forestry and you have explained why one or the other member was elected to this council and why one or the other was not elected. You made a decision on the committee by the so-called party and by the fact that you belong to the opposition, but what choice would you have made if you had chosen between these two very good candidates as a woodsman, like you've been here right now? Do you dare say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U131	Thank you, good questioner! As I said at the beginning of my presentation, and as the good questioner pointed out, both candidates are good. Both candidates have their strengths and, as demonstrated by the Environment Committee's discussions, both candidates have experience in the field of forestry. But I voted in committee on my conscience. I'm not ashamed to say that I supported Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U132	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U133	Thank you. Dear waitress, It seems to me that we have done too much here together for a member of the Riigikogu. In fact, we have been saying that according to the law, two members must be appointed by the Riigikogu and then there are two other members of the Riigikogu. Actually, there's three. In addition to Jaanus Tamkivi and Tõnis Kõiv, appointed as experts by the Minister of Environment Keit Pentus, there is Andres Jalak, who two months ago joined the Riigikogu as an alternate member of Indrek Raudse. Is it possible that he is the one whose Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, his party partner, has appointed as an expert to represent the interests of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? If indeed this man, who was then the construction director of AS Comfort AE, represented the interests of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which committee should ask the Minister what these interests and the right of representation consisted of? Should it be the Committee on the Environment or the Committee on Economic Affairs? How do we figure this out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U134	Thank you, good questioner! Perhaps Andres Jalak is a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Unfortunately, this is not on the website of the State Forest Management Centre. But I think that what has led to such a decision is indeed, in particular, a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. I think that every member of the Riigikogu can ask a written question, a question of Question Time or, if the subject is even more serious and important, an inquiry. The reason why ministers present members of the Riigikogu as representatives of ministries or experts rather than good experts in this field, I cannot comment. But if I were a minister, I would rather really like good experts, those who can move the whole organisation forward in this area. But it is a ministerial decision and a choice. Given how many politicians there are, I hope that one day the State Forest Management Centre will not be led politically, that one day there will not be political decisions that need political leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U135	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This long debate here is very grateful, some things are becoming clearer and, as it turns out, surprises are coming out. It turns out that there are more members of the Riigikogu than there were at the beginning, and if we were to discuss it for a long time, it might become clear that there are more. After all, one representative of the Riigikogu was present at the committee before, and as it turned out, it was clear before the meeting of the committee, the National Audit Office has found some serious problems with the channelling of money. In the Commission, the new candidate was certainly given a recommendation in the Council to make sure that such things did not happen. But was it also an idea to invite a previously appointed member of the Council to the Commission to report on how this could have happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U137	To be quite honest, we didn't get this far with our discussion and debate. But this is indeed a good question not only for the Committee on the Environment, but for all the committees of the Riigikogu through which various representatives of the Riigikogu are appointed to the councils of state companies or institutions. Members of the Supervisory Board should be regularly invited to give an overview or at least to answer questions from members of the committee about the different administrative areas that they must represent as members of the Riigikogu. Because in addition to the Committee on the Environment, which appoints representatives to the Environmental Investment Centre and the State Forest Management Centre, there are several representatives of the Cultural Committee, for example, the members of the Estonian National Opera and the Estonian National Library Council, etc. I think that this could be a good practice that our committees could aim to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U138	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U139	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that you were a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre for some years and that you are following with heartache what is currently taking place in the State Forest Management Centre. My question is: who called you there, and what areas of heart did you deal with and stand for at the State Forest Management Centre at the time? While we are discussing this subject so thoroughly, talk about your personal experience in participating in the work of the State Forest Management Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U140	Thank you, good questioner! I worked at the Ministry of the Environment at the time and was a representative of the Ministry of the Environment at the Council of the State Forest Management Centre. At the time, one of the topics on which we often held debates in the Council was that the State Forest Management Centre had gathered a pretty impressive buffer in the form of money. It was often asked where we could direct what we could do with this money. One of the issues that I raised was, for example, that forest drainage systems, which were established once in a distant period of Soviet times, would need remediation and investment in them would be extremely sensible. Of course, there were other topics, such as forest management, how much, in what extent and according to the systems could be estimated for the whole timber accounting. The drainage of the forests was one of the closest to my heart. After all, it depends very much on what the growth of the various stands is, and with which bonitees there are at last different wooded areas, which should increase our wealth and prosperity here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U141	Thank you. On the previous question, I must say that it did not concern what was being discussed in the Commission. Let me remind you that we are trying to stay on the subject. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, too, am pleased that you have provided a great many explanations about the activities of the State Forest Management Centre. Of course, the management structure of the State Forest Management Centre is also very important. My question concerns the appointment of members of the Council. They are known to be fixed on different dates. Would you tell me how long their mandate is to set different deadlines? How long is the mandate of one or another member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U143	Thank you. When I introduced § 49 of the Forest Act, I talked about it, but I repeat and state once again that the Council will be set up for three years. Nine members have been appointed to the council by the order of the Government of the Republic, whose names I have read here. Once again, two members have been appointed by decision of the Riigikogu, two members are representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, one is a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one is a representative of the Ministry of Finance and three experts have been appointed on the proposal of the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U144	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is more to Tõnis Lukas, but since you are the Commission's waitress, I will ask you this. Before several elections, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association have declared that they are calling members of the Riigikogu back from various councils of state-owned companies. Today we see that it is quite the opposite that the IRL is once again appointing a member of the Riigikogu to the Council of the Institution. Did the members of the Commission ask Tõnis Lukas and did Tõnis Lukas explain why the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union behave contrary to what he promised voters before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U146	Thank you. As regards the two members of the Riigikogu, who are appointed on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment (the last time we appointed Liisa-Ly Pakosta as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and today the name of Tõnis Lukas is in this draft decision), this is due to the competence of the Riigikogu, which is laid down by law. These members must be appointed by the Riigikogu to the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. As regards other members of the Riigikogu who come by the side doors, if you could say so, it is indeed a question for these parties or for the leaders of these parties, why they use these possibilities and appoint members of the Riigikogu to the various councils on a proposal from the Minister, either as experts or as representatives of the Ministry. Speaking of Tõnis Lukas and Liisa-Ly Pakosta, it has to be said that we cannot get over it or around it, we have to name two members there. But democracy has been on their side now, in this respect we have very little chance of doing something different here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U147	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U148	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I was moved to ask for your assessment that people who, when they were in the executive office, were perfectly fit to represent the interests of the Estonian state in the State Forest Management Centre, at the moment when they became ambassadors for the people's trust, as if they lost their competence and credibility. I understand the same fate has struck you. I wanted to ask you how you felt. As an official, you felt very competent, more specifically, as a minister's advisor, you felt like a good representative. But after you were elected to the Riigikogu, did you suddenly feel a loss of competence and credibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U149	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We will discuss the personal question of Karel Rüütel another time when it relates to the draft decision. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U150	Thank you, good questioner! No, I didn't. But the question is that when the Riigikogu appoints its representatives, it really is reasonable and correct, because we rely on the laws and legislation in force in the Republic of Estonia. But we often use this practice that we call members of the Riigikogu as members of the council, using so-called side doors. I think there are enough good experts in Estonia who could be in these places and who could do so without necessarily being members of the Riigikogu. Of course, this practice has been very much used in the past, but I personally think that otherwise would be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have a longer experience here in the Riigikogu than only during its composition. I remember that during the previous term, it was considered crucial for a third sector to be represented in the Board of the State Forest Management Centre to be appointed as a member of the Council of the same institution. How do you currently assess the representation of the third sector there? Was the question raised this time in the Commission that the third sector should be strongly represented in the State Forest Management Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U152	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, I also recall the eloquent fact that at one point the Riigikogu representative was not a member of the Riigikogu, but a strong and good representative of this sector from the third sector. No, this time this debate did not arise in the committee, and such a discussion did not appear on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U153	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! What do you think, in the wider sense, is this Soviet work system and membership system working, and would you, for example, change it, in a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U155	Thank you. I think the system itself is fine. Given that the State Forest Management Centre is such an important institution for every person in Estonia, it is right that the Council must be set up in the broadest possible way. The fact that the Riigikogu appoints two representatives is also absolutely right. If it is possible for the Ministry of the Environment to present representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and other ministries to present representatives or experts of the Ministry, then it is simply a question of how this possibility is used in practice. Are we really going to present the best experts, the most experienced people, or are we going to use other means and present Members of Parliament there? It is a question of discussion that I find very difficult to hold, because I have not mentioned any people there. But I have also pointed out very much in advance that the question of why these people have been put there and what these arguments are could be put to the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U156	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I received a creative impulse to ask my question by listening to your discussion with Taavi Rõivas, when you explained so well that a member of the Riigikogu has some functions, an official has others and when a person changes his or her job, his or her duties change. The discussion also involved the fact that the IRL has solemnly declared that they will only send their representatives to the institutions or councils to which the law requires the representative of the Riigikogu to be sent. It came up here that Andres Jalak was already listed there as an institution member and then became a member of the Riigikogu. Did it not make sense for the Commission to make it easier to match requirements and roles? Couldn't Andres Jalak have appointed a representative of the Riigikogu if he was already in the Riigikogu and was doing this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U158	Thank you, good questioner! Yeah, that would've been an option. However, unfortunately, this issue did not arise in the Committee on the Environment and this was not discussed by the Committee on the Environment in this way. As I said, the competence of the Environment Committee is to present only two members of the council; on the part of the Riigikogu, we can only send two candidates to the State Forest Management Centre. This is once again, I think, a question for the ministers concerned why they have made such a decision and what are the arguments on which they have chosen these people precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U159	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U160	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! We got a pretty good overview of the responsibilities of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. It has already been mentioned here that those of our colleagues who resign should report on their work in the Council of the State Forest Management Centre. My question has to do with this. Good colleague! Perhaps it is time to make these reports mandatory at law level and not just for members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U161	Thank you, good questioner! As I said in answering previous questions, I think that makes sense. But right now, of course, it is difficult for the Riigikogu to invite Indrek Raudset to report to the Riigikogu, to oblige him to come to the Committee on the Environment to report on how he then worked as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and what work he did. However, I think that the idea of 'routineing' the idea that the members of the Council should regularly go to the Commission to exchange views is appropriate. Such improvements and changes should, indeed, bring the Riigikogu into its home and working order. We look forward to good suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U162	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U163	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I looked forward to answering the question why Rainer Vakra, who, unlike Mr Lukas, also has a professional education, is not such a good candidate. Then I remembered that Mr Lukas recently promised the teachers that his salary would not rise until the teachers' wages rose. Was it perhaps the decisive thing that Mr Lukas is willing to do this job without payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U164	Thank you, good questioner! This is indeed not what we discussed in the Committee on the Environment. It is also very difficult for me to comment on Mr Lukas' thoughts on the pay of teachers. However, I heard from the Prime Minister, who answered in Question Time some time ago that teachers' salaries would rise next year. In this respect, I will, in any case, keep my fingers crossed with the Prime Minister and his good reflections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U165	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U166	Thank you. Good waitress! How many members of the Riigikogu belong to the Council? That's a pretty interesting question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U167	Thank you, good questioner! On the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, we have the right to propose two candidates. However, as the previous questions of good colleagues were read here, there are indeed significantly more capable people who actually contribute to the work of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre. If I may, I will read out the names of the members of the Supervisory Board who are members of the Riigikogu and are members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Riigikogu presented Liisa-Ly Pakosta as a member of the council last spring and today we have the opportunity to support the candidacy of Tõnis Lukas. In addition, there is Jaanus Tamkivi and, indeed, Andres Jalak, also Tõnis Kõiv. A total of five out of nine members.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U168	No further questions for the rapporteur. Karel Rüütel, thank you very much for your very thorough performance. I'm opening negotiations. Only authorised representatives of the political groups may take the floor in the negotiations. Please, Neeme as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U169	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is likely that many of you are now concerned about why the topic of the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre is such a matter of attention. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I can explain certain fundamental points of view. I'm talking about three things. I am talking about the importance of the State Forest Management Centre, I am talking about the importance of the Board of State Income and I am talking about political culture. First of all, if someone considers the activities of the State Forest Management Centre irrelevant, he is misguided. The State Forest Management Centre is the largest manager of state land and the largest forest manager in the country, operating on about one million hectares of Estonian soil. The State Forest Management Centre is an organiser of state forest grower, timber distributor and forest innovator, as well as of nature conservation, nature education and recreation. The State Forest Management Centre employs more than 800 people, and contract work is offered to nearly 2000 people, not to mention entrepreneurship related to the activities of the State Forest Management Centre. The turnover of the State Forest Management Centre was 116 million euros in 2010, the State received ownership income of 3.2 million euros, and the land tax of 3.7 million euros. 1.57 million people visited the recreational and protected areas of the State Forest Management Centre. If we add to this the fact that the State Forest Management Centre is Estonia's largest manager of hunting grounds, then the importance of the activities of the State Forest Management Centre in the Republic of Estonia will probably not need to be further emphasised. The activities of the State Forest Management Centre concern all of us. Secondly, if someone considers membership of the Board of the State Incomes Institution irrelevant, then he too is mistaken. The appointment of a representative of the Riigikogu to the council of the State Forest Management Centre is the result of the Act, § 49 of the Forest Act. The mandate of the Council is extremely wide. The Council's competence is to approve the development plan and the action plans and to monitor their implementation, but also, for example, to decide to have legal disputes with the members of the management board, to review the audit results, to approve the staff rankings, to authorise borrowing and much more. As members of the Governing Council have a number of responsibilities, they also have responsibility for the decisions taken. I have spoken about the importance of the work of the State Forest Management Centre and its Supervisory Board. All that remains is to talk about the importance of political culture. I watched the ETV2 show "Three Angles" last night. There was a video clip where people on the street were asked how they appreciated Estonian political culture. One very polite Russian gentleman from 10 polls replied that we have a good political culture, Estonian politicians are very cultural and educated. Two respondents replied that there was something like it, but it could be better, and seven said that there was no political culture. A part of political culture is also the practice that if the Riigikogu legally appoints members of the council of the state company, representatives of the coalition and opposition could be represented there. This has been the case in many cases. We cannot have any doubt that the activities of the State Forest Management Centre or the activities of a member of its supervisory board would be irrelevant. They're very important. We probably cannot expect the appointed member of the Council to know forestry to the fineness of this industry, but we could follow good political practice and stand up for maintaining a good political balance in the board of such an important institution as the State Forest Management Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U170	Thank you very much. Any more calls? Please, Tõnis Lukas as representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You know that there is an exchange of generations in the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and this also gave me the opportunity to become a member of the Council of the State Forest Management Centre instead of Indrek Rauds. I very much hope that it was not really the next debate, the debate on the Unemployment Insurance Act, which was spoken with a big mouth, but really focused on issues related to the State Forest Management Centre, and that this is what interested all the people who spoke here for an hour and a half. Yes, I was able to scold the honorary chairman at the Grand Assembly of our party that the Committee on the Environment has not been active enough and has not done enough of the green thing. Before I begin to seriously limit the spread of oil shale energy in Estonia and solve other issues, it is necessary to stop logging in Estonia. Through the State Forest Management Centre, a practical blow can undoubtedly be used much better than simply through the Environmental Commission. Joking, but really environmental issues and, in this case, the subject of forestry require my attention as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. The Environment Committee will focus on the activities of the State Forest Management Centre in the next period to a much greater extent than is currently the case. By the way, for the details of Karel Rüütel. When the topic of sports activities and "tax optimisation" of the staff of the Centre came up, I also raised it in the Committee on the Environment in the presence of the Minister. The Council's decisions must probably be monitored and monitored as Chairman of the Environment Committee from within the State Forest Management Centre. The world of Priit Toobal is another dimension. I stress that the position of the Fatherland Union and later of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has always been that members of the Riigikogu should not belong to the councils of state companies. Alongside this, there are many councils where members are appointed by the Riigikogu and where members of all political groups have been appointed at all times. It's two things. With random headlines or puddles, Mr. Toobal may not have been able to keep up with his whole life. They do not make sense to describe the entire activities of the Riigikogu. Make yourself clear before you comment. But in the activities of the Committee on the Environment, forestry is a very important section.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U172	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Simson, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the hour and a half during which we discussed the appointment of representatives of the Riigikogu to the council of a state company was very fruitful. I don't think it's been so much Tõnis Lukas. Most of this hall is pleased that the generation of Tõnis Lukas has had a dignified opportunity to stand up for the Estonian forest. The question is not only that the Riigikogu must submit two members to the Council of the State Forest Management Centre of Nine. As our opposition party, of course, we believe that if the Riigikogu is able to present two members, it would be correct to present them on the basis of parity. The Riigikogu is not only composed of 56 members belonging to the coalition; there are other positions in the Riigikogu. If we look at the role of the board members, more meaningful supervision would certainly benefit many councils. I have stood here in the Riigikogu Chair and talked about the duties of Soviet members also in relation to the salaries of the heads of state companies. We have noticed that quite a number of members of the Boards of State Enterprises, also belonging to the Riigikogu, do not perform their duties as they should. During today's discussion, it has become clear that in the large hall of the Riigikogu, we appoint two members of the Riigikogu to the council of the Riigikogu Forest Management Centre. They have so far been Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Indrek Raudne. Andres Jalak, Tõnis Kõiv and Jaanus Tamkivi have also received it through the back door. It is precisely through the back door, because both the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, would have a lot of explaining according to which this choice was made, according to which Keit Pentus has found the best experts in Estonian forestry, and according to which the Minister of Communications and Economy has found an associate between the Council and his ministry. When it comes to whose speech I am still waiting for, I certainly think that the Reform Party should explain its views on participation in the councils, because such appointments to the Riigikogu Chamber have received much attention before. One of the brightest situations was when Mart Jüssi, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the previous composition, defended the Commission's majority decision, which replaced Kalvi with Hard Toomas Trapid in the Environmental Investment Centre Council. During the long debate, it turned out that the greens are like the Naxitralls who write their own letters, and they write that their candidate is like a better representative of the Riigikogu than a candidate for social democrats. At least the Greens had so much political nerve that they came to this chair and explained why their people should be in this council or why they felt that way. Having learned that there are at least two outstanding forestry experts among the members of the Riigikogu who have been found by the Minister of the Environment among his party associates, the opportunity and the results of this examination should certainly be used to share with the large hall, all the more so as it can be seen that there is an outstanding interest in this topic in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. If this option is not used here, ministers will of course have the opportunity to come to the Riigikogu on Wednesday and explain their staff choices, or those members representing either the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications could give an overview to the Riigikogu committees. At all, more should be done about what the representatives of the Riigikogu do in the councils. If this is a one-time appointment, followed by a lot of nothing-making, then it will become resentful for the activities of members of the Riigikogu outside the work. I repeat that the Centre Party Group cannot support the candidacy of Tõnis Lukas, not because we do not consider Tõnis Lukas to be an experienced politician and think that his generation deserves to be properly represented. We simply believe that the appointment of two IRL politicians to the board of one company will inevitably undermine the equal representation of forces. The Riigikogu is not only a government union, the Riigikogu is represented by different Estonian voters and different political groups representing the positions of these voters. We assume...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U174	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U175	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U176	One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U177	... that if the Riigikogu is able to present two members of the council, then at least one of them could be from another political group. Currently there are two representatives of the IRL on the Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to talking to the representative of the Reform Party in this speech chair about my forestry expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U178	Thank you very much. Please, any more requests? There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Let's get ready for the vote. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U179	Thank you. Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U180	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 12:37 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U181	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The commission's proposal was to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the " Appointment of a Member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment 168. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U182	We will go to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that we have also received a very thorough overview of the activities of the State Forest Management Centre and Estonian forestry in connection with the amendment of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Perhaps this is one of the positive things that comes with this draft, in addition to the fact that we have discussed the amendment of the unemployment insurance law at quite a number of meetings of the Social Committee. As you know, the unemployment fund is now in a situation where it is essentially indecisive because there is no quorum. Employers have recalled two representatives from the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and employees have suspended the mandate of one representative, even though they are formally still members of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. On this basis, the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is now essentially indecisive. This has led to the fact that the budget of the unemployment fund for the year already under way has not been approved. Although the unemployment fund can make use of one twelfth of the current budget of the previous year each month, it does not guarantee the necessary flexibility for the unemployment fund to spend the expenditure actually putting at risk the daily provision of the necessary services of the unemployment fund. Certainly, no party or any party in the unemployment fund wishes to create such a situation. The second issue, which is specifically addressed in this draft, relates to the end of the term of office of the management body of the unemployment fund, i.e. the management board. The Governing Board's mandate, i.e. the contracts, ends in s. a on April 15th. The extension of the term of office of the members of the Management Board, the resignation of the members of the Management Board and the conclusion of new contracts shall be limited to the competence of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. This means that if the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has not been able to restore its judgment by 15 April, the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will essentially lose its powers and the work will end. This is a very specific threat to the daily work of the unemployment fund. Consequently, on 25 January the Committee on Social Affairs met at an extraordinary meeting to discuss the situation. We invited all the parties of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee for the first time in a long time, not at the table of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Formally, there was also a quorum in order to decide on questions, but the Social Affairs Committee meeting is certainly not the place where it can be done. As a result of the discussion, we have come to the conclusion that the legislator, the Riigikogu, which is not directly represented in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, as opposed to the Health Insurance Fund, where there are two representatives of the Riigikogu, must intervene here and create extraordinary opportunities at the legislative level to ensure the flexibility of the unemployment fund and the necessary work for the social partners. It is one of the fundamental rights of a person to be assisted by the state in seeking employment. I do not think we want to get to the point that the state is unable to guarantee these rights or to fulfil these obligations. That's why I thought it was necessary to come before you with a draft law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu also met at an extraordinary meeting on 26 January, where we discussed specifically the initiation of this draft. There were 6 Commission members in favour of the proposal, against 5. The Commission therefore decided to initiate this draft. We met the same day after the draft was handed over to the third extraordinary sitting in which we took procedural decisions. The decisions were as follows: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be first read on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 7 February (by 6 members of the committee, no votes against or abstentions), to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop reading the draft (by 6 members of the committee, 3 abstentions), to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 8 February (by 6 members of the committee, no votes against, 1 abstention) and to appoint Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the committee as rapporteur. I will now go to the substance of the bill. The draft ensures the proper continuation of the activities of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund in a situation where the highest body of the fund has become indecisive. To this end, the draft amends the procedure for taking decisions falling within the competence of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund by giving the Government of the Republic the right and obligation to take decisions necessary for the continuation of the activities of the Unemployment Insurance Fund in respect of the discharge of the budget of the Fund and the office of the members of the Management Board of the Fund at the final stage. I would stress that secondary government decision-making will only arise in a situation where the treasury board has not made its own decisions in time. The draft law also specifies the rules for spending the unemployment fund in a situation where the budget of the fund has not been approved. The current law provides for a limited right of the cashier to make expenditure only if the approval of the cashier's budget has been delayed due to a delay in the adoption of the state budget. Since today's situation has not been adopted by the cash fund due to the Council's indecisiveness, the draft extends the cashier's right to make limited expenditure in all situations of lack of budget, regardless of the reasons. I think that, during this debate, you will understand that, in a situation where the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is unable to take decisions in relation to the budget of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the mandate of the Management Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, it is our duty to provide for these possibilities by law. I am counting on support for this draft here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U184	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U185	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! The situation in which the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund does not function has been caused by the activities of the Government of the Republic. After all, we all remember that the Council, by a two-thirds majority, decided that unemployment insurance should be reduced from this year, but the Government of the Republic, using its own discretion, rolled over the majority of the decision on which tripartite cooperation was interrupted. You now, instead of putting pressure on the Government of the Republic to restore tripartite cooperation, are going as a government tool to create a situation where the Council does not need decisions. Why are you acting like this, why don't you pressure the government to restore trilateral cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U186	Thank you, good questioner! As you yourself mentioned, this is tripartite cooperation. The Committee on Social Affairs in its extraordinary session also concluded that we are calling on all parties to sit back at the table. This is possible because all the parties were already sitting at the Social Affairs Committee table together. Indeed, you are right, the Government of the Republic is a partner of the social partners, not the Riigikogu. At the same time, we have a duty to ensure that the unemployment fund works and that the people who are looking for work receive constitutional help. I hope that cooperation and dialogue between the government and the social partners will be restored. The unemployment insurance rate has actually been set for that year, but it will have to be done again next year. This dialogue should begin as soon as possible. The other part of the case is that in the case of the budget of the health insurance fund, the relevant provisions are in the law. If, for some reason, the Health Insurance Board is unable to approve its budget, it will go to the Government of the Republic under secondary law. After all, the unemployment fund continues to draw up the budget; no one takes these rights away from the unemployment fund. Only if, within one month of the adoption of the state budget, the Council has not been able to adopt the budget for the current year will this right and obligation go to the Government of the Republic and its aim is to ensure the daily functioning of the unemployment fund. After all, there have been no major differences of opinion between the social partners and the government on the content of the budget. These issues, the rights and obligations that this confrontation has created, will not be eliminated by this legislative amendment concerning the negotiations on unemployment insurance rates and all other issues. It is our job to ensure with this bill that people get the help they need to get. There are almost 50,000 of these people now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U187	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! The Confederation of Trade Unions made certain proposals to the Committee on Social Affairs on this draft law. Could you give us a brief overview of these?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U189	I can give you an overview of this, but I would like to come to this when this draft law is at second reading, because we have not yet had time in the Commission to discuss these proposals. It's the first reading. We are going to discuss with all the parties what they have made. These proposals have just been received. We will come to these concrete proposals, as well as to the proposals for improvement at second reading in this Chamber. I'm not going to read the long letters that have come. The Committee on Social Affairs has asked all parties for proposals and opinions on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U190	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U191	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! The Unemployment Insurance Board is not stupid, lazy, unable to work or sick. The unemployment fund's money is actually employers' money. Of course, they were frustrated when they found out during the budget negotiations that part of this money was being taken away and used to patch up budget holes. It was already known at the time that they were carrying out a certain protest, which they had a legal opportunity to do. When they came to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, they hoped for constructive dialogue. Instead, by amending the law, they simply take away any say, decide on their heads, and essentially expel them from the negotiating room. Is that your idea of dialogue, or did you follow someone's orders with this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U192	Thank you, good questioner! My understanding is that it is our job to provide assistance to the tens of thousands of people who need state assistance in seeking employment, as well as to those entrepreneurs who need help and support in creating their jobs. As I have already said, it would certainly be the best solution if all the parties were to reunite and negotiate the negotiating room. We've got to put an end to the state of sin. It is not the people's fault that dialogue has stopped. We have called on all parties to do so. The Committee on Social Affairs cannot solve these issues directly. One option that we can use as legislator is that we give the Government of the Republic a secondary right to make decisions on specific matters if the parties fail to reach agreement. This is a very logical step. This situation actually applies to the health insurance fund. If the parties are able to do so and have a consensus or a chance to negotiate, no one will withdraw the right to take those decisions by this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U193	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. Does it not seem to you that the entry into force of this bill will give the Government of the Republic the opportunity to take future decisions without taking into account the views of the other parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U195	Good questioner! There are quite a number of decisions taken by the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund regarding the unemployment fund. These are also described in the Unemployment Insurance Act. These specific competences that we see in this draft relate to the adoption of the budget and the powers of the members of the Governing Board when these powers expire and when the Council itself is unable to take decisions on both issues. So it only concerns a small part of the decisions taken by the unemployment fund. I think that there is a great deal of decisions and actions on which the social dialogue between the social partners and the Government of the Republic should continue and which should, in essence, be dealt with. I hope that this dialogue will be constructive in the future, as it has been in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U196	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U197	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This is very close to what I want to ask you about. I'm seriously interested in your prognosis. Does the right to appoint a member of the Management Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund mean that you will not find it possible to bring three parties to a table as equal partners in the near future? They went to the Commission and discussed it, but does your forecast say that this will not be possible in the near future as equal partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U198	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U199	Thank you, good questioner! I hope this will be possible in the near future. It is in the interest of all parties that it should take place in the near future to plant one table and discuss issues. However, we must note that 15 April will be very soon, and as a legislator, we must also take time to debate this legislative amendment. I think that dealing with this issue now is dealing with it at the last minute, in a sense it is happening at the last right moment. But my sincere hope is that this dialogue will be restored in such a way that the specific provision of this legislative amendment does not really need to be implemented in life. I really hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Both the Estonian Trade Union Confederation is of the opinion and I feel that it is disproportionate to delegate the decision-making power of a legal person governed by the tripartite principle to only one party. How justified do you consider solving the situation with this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U201	Thank you, good questioner! If I didn't think it was justified, I wouldn't be here with these proposals. The sickness fund also includes different parties. If we look at the budgetary decision-making process, at the transition of the secondary decision-making process to the Government of the Republic, if the Council is unable to take a decision, it is the mechanism that can guarantee the proper work of the unemployment fund and that the state will actually help people looking for work. I think that signing this possibility into this law is a guarantee that the unemployment fund can continue its work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U202	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U203	Thank you. This situation, which has arisen, is completely unique in Estonia, but it is also unique at international level. If my memory isn't fooled, a dozen years ago, something like this happened in Hungary. There, the government went even further in the sense that it itself removed both employers and the trade union from these negotiations. Have you analysed the international context of this problem and have solutions been found anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U204	Thank you. We have based our discussions on the current needs of the Estonian people on our labour market and the situation that we have faced. I cannot draw an exact parallel here with what has happened in Hungary and what will happen in the future. Today, we need to look at how to solve the problems of those who are currently looking for work on the labour market and give the whole of society confidence that an institution as important as the unemployment fund will continue to do so. I think we need to solve our problems here, in our home.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U205	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your answers, you have stressed responsibility for people and also that these legislative changes do not preclude the work of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and their decision-making, you have said that there are still many of these decisions. But it is clear that the most important decisions, the appointment of board members and the approval of the budget will be taken away by the government from the cashier. It's like a chunk over your head: you can raise your mind there, but the most important decision is ours anyway. How much do you think there will be any possibility of further work for the Council at all? They can just talk, but decisions are made by one party, which is definitely very bad. I do not share your optimism that the Council will work constructively in the future, after this legislative amendment has been introduced. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U207	Thank you. As I have said many times, a specific legislative amendment only concerns two issues: the discharge of the budget and the powers of the members of the Bureau when they end. This situation is already coming up on 15 April. Our duty is once again to guarantee people the fundamental rights associated with the search for a job. We have nothing else left today. But I really hope that the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will continue its work and the dialogue will resume as soon as possible. That is my very sincere expectation, and I think it is also your expectation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-07_U208	Thank you. The item will not be dealt with as it is due to the full time of the sitting. The debate on this subject will continue in tomorrow's session. The sitting is adjourned. Once again, I ask the members of the Estonian-China parliamentary group to stay in the Chamber in order to elect a new president for the group. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
