ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to pass on the drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First of all, the draft law on military service. Secondly, the draft law implementing the Defence Forces Service Act. Thirdly, the draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Defence Mart Laar in the proceedings of these three draft laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Psychiatric Assistance Act, the Penal Register Act, the Penal Care Act and the Health Services Organisation Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, when dealing with these two drafts. Sixth, improved and improved draft law amending the European Social Charter Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The subject of the inquiry is motivated by the fact that another closed rescue command is the Palamuse commando. The number of inhabitants and economic savings in the region and the lack of life-saving capacity have been identified as pretexts. The people of the Palamuse are not satisfied with the Minister's reasoning analysis. This is because 5,000 people needed to continue the command in the area have not been included in the Luua Forestry School and up to 380 students who live in student homes locally but are not entered in the register of residents of Palamuse rural municipality. Secondly, because the analysis shows completely incorrect times of arrival, under ideal conditions they may indeed apply, but certainly not in winter conditions. We also learn that the Jõgeva County Elder, the Reform Party Viktor Svyaschev, has made a public appeal to the people of Palamuse and everyone else to collect signatures in order not to lose this rescue command. He says that the Palamuse Rescue Command is one of the strongest and most outbound commanders in Jõgeva County and is necessary to ensure the security of this area. Consequently, we have a number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U6	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! I and 13 other members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to Ms. Keit Pentus, the Estonian Environment Minister. The question relates to the concern that Estonia has fallen down from year to year in the environmental performance ranking of world countries. We can now see that Estonia is at 54th place on the basis of the latest published survey. At the same time, an even more devastating assessment has been made when we look at the developments and performance of Estonia in the last decade, which makes Estonia the 128th place. And if you look at charts more closely, it can be said that the viability of our ecosystem has been assessed badly and that the health of the Estonian environment has also been assessed exceptionally low. We therefore have five questions for the Minister for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted six draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Here's the news. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Social Affairs Committee. a draft law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act, launched on 26 January, and appointed it as the lead committee of the Social Affairs Committee. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 January, Estonia's views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Programme for the Competitiveness of Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (2014 to 2020) were presented to the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 26 January, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's initiatives on statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, on the European Union Affairs Committee and on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the European Commission's initiatives for the opinion of the Economic Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 26 January, Estonia presented its views on the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a programme for the environment and climate action (LIFE) to the European Union Commission and appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Fifthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 26 January Estonia submitted its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Sixthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 2 February Estonia presented its views on the draft Council Regulation establishing the Europe for Citizens programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and appointed the Constitutional Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Seventhly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a Estonia's views on the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Border Surveillance System (EUROSUR), submitted on 2 February, and appointed the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Eighth, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 2 February, Estonia presented its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the "Erasmus for All" programme of the Union for education, training, youth and sport, to the Committee on European Union Affairs, and appointed the Committee on Culture to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Ninth, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 2 February Estonia submitted its views on the draft Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on serious cross-border threats to health to the European Union Commission and appointed the Social Committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft decision. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 February 2010 at 4 p.m. By 10th, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 2 February Estonia submitted its views on the draft regulations of the European Parliament and the Council concerning the venture capital and social entrepreneurship fund to the European Union Commission and appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulations. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 23 February 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8. Let us now go to the adoption of the agenda. This week's agenda will be on your desks, and I'll put it to the vote. Please vote! 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed. We will begin the discussion of today's agenda items, i.e. responses to inquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U8	The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Deniss Borodichi, Lauri Laas, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Mailis Reps and Marika Tuus-Laul on 5 December 2011 (No 77). My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! This inquiry to the Prime Minister is not a narrow solution to the problem of one rural municipality, but rather a much wider reflection of the attitude of the government of Prime Minister Ansip to local governments on the principle of division and government. During difficult times, the "Little Peeter," or municipal revenue base, was the first to be attacked in the process of cutting, and when the municipality was run by its own man, exceptions were made and were prepared to make. Our inquiry is based on the case of the municipality of Rõngu in Tartumaa. This municipality arranged for the construction of the school building. After the tender was announced, the Ministry of Finance enforced the loan restrictions on the municipalities in March 2009. However, the municipality of Rõngu completed the procurement already announced in February and started renovating the school building. In order to punish such activities, the Ministry of Finance issued an order on 11 November 2009 that Rõngu's income tax and compensatory fund payments should be withheld on average over 4 million kroons each year for the following three years. In Valla, there was nothing left to seek protection against such activities, except that the Rõngu Municipality Government issued the Ministry of Finance's decision to deprive the municipality of 12.3 million kroons in court. But in 2010 and 2011 the Ministry of Finance withheld Rõngu municipality's income tax, the construction of the school building stopped and the children had to receive education in other buildings of the municipality. Then Rõngu was replaced by the rural municipality's elder, the municipality council deliberately chose the "right party', the migration leader of the Prime Minister's party, who had previously worked as the assistant mayor of Kuressaare in West Estonia, as well as as as Vihula in Viru County, and also in Tallinn, Nõmme, in local elections. Priit Pramann, a young man who tried several occupations, became a new elder. According to him, the municipality came to a compromise with the Ministry of Finance that the Ministry no longer withheld income tax and the municipality paid this amount to service the loan for the construction of the school building. The parish elder said that the compromise would allow the parish to start managing again more normally. Thus, this compromise and the ability of the rural municipality leader and the head of state to reach an agreement in order to get one rural municipality back to normal. The parish elder stated that although the court could have won the state, it was easier to agree because the struggle between the state and the municipality was unequal. Vald buys a lawyer's service to protect him, but the Ministry of Finance has an entire department for that. On 3 May 2011, the Tallinn Administrative Court approved the compromise agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Rõngu Municipality and the Ministry of Finance revoked the letters of order by Jürgen Ligi. On 29 December 2011, the withholding tax (EUR 127000) was repaid to the municipality. With this, the municipality became the municipality with the statistically largest increase in income tax last year. However, this positive solution was also accompanied by a negative side, the risk that money held up by the state's activities could now lead to the loss of the compensation fund's receipts. On the one hand, it is a nice story that a small municipality can also stand up for its rights, but on the other hand, we are in an abnormal situation where the government or ministry must seek protection from the courts. Therefore, seven signatories want to know whether the government has drawn its own conclusions from such a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U10	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Before I start answering specific questions, I dare to say to the honourable Riigikogu that restrictions on the lending of local governments are common practice in Europe and their absence is a major exception. Moreover, since government balance is usually the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry is given sufficient means to ensure this balance of government. In a very large number of countries, however, not only have local authorities been subject to credit constraints, but local authorities are only allowed to make use of their previously collected reserves with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. One such country is Denmark, for example. The question of whether it is appropriate for a local government to go to court with a central government in a democratic country is, in my opinion, inappropriate. In Europe, it is considered to be a very good practice when local governments are also given the right to go to court with the central government. In Europe, it is not a good practice to deprive a local authority of the right to defend its interests through a court of law. In general, countries where local governments do not have the right to pursue a central government are not considered to be quite democratic. But now to specific questions. The first and second questions together: 'In this case, what is the justification for exempting the State from the limit laid down by law? For what reason did the Minister of Finance change his position on the violation of the Rõngu parish loan agreement? ' On 1 March 2009, the temporary debt-taking restriction of local authorities entered into force, which allowed commitments to be made only to cover the own contribution of external aid projects. The limitation expired on 31 December 2011. The aim of the amendment was to limit the combined deficit of local governments and to mitigate potential financial risks. This limitation should not only concern the financial autonomy of local authorities, but also the public finances as a whole. In spring 2009, the economy had been in decline for three quarters in a row, and in order to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the state, all public parties had to jointly and severally reduce their costs. In a letter dated 30 June 2009, the Ministry of Finance warned Rõngu's municipality's parent that the proposed conclusion of the contract would lead to an unacceptable commitment because it was not used to cover the own contribution of any external aid project. Despite the warning, on 16 July 2009 the parish elder signed a financial lease agreement for the renovation of the school. By order of the Minister of Finance of 11 November 2009, transfers of municipal income tax and the Equalisation Fund's funds were withheld. The parish board has turned to court to challenge it. The court decided to reduce the level of detention from the original 20% to 5% for a period of six months in the original legal protection proceedings, with 5% continued detention after the end of that period. On the initiative of the leaders of Rõngu rural municipality, consultations were opened on the conclusion of a compromise agreement to close the litigation. The compromise agreement was made possible as the Municipality agreed to channel 5% of the funds thus far in detention itself in order to repay the undertaking as a violation. In addition to this, the municipality will contribute an additional EUR 10000 each year for the same purpose in 2012-2018. By concluding the compromise, the Ministry of Finance preferred to achieve the same objective with a less restrictive approach for Rõngu municipality. Question 3: "How much does a party member of a parish elder or mayor decide on the success of a municipality or city? " Ministries have a duty to apply the law to all municipalities in the same way. Question 4: 'The construction of the Rõõna school became a political weapon, resulting in a change of power, but children suffered from long-standing dispersal of different objects in the municipality. How is the behaviour of a country where children and education suffer as a result of a political struggle justified? " Rõngu's parish government did not care about the warnings that they would break the law when they signed the contract. The choices made by the parish leaders led to a situation where the studies had to be carried out in different buildings. Question 5: 'By cancelling the letters, the State admitted an error in the imposition of a fine. The sums withheld will be refunded by the state, but how does the state intend to compensate for the long-term inconveniences caused to the rural municipality? ' The compromise agreement with Rõngu Municipality ensured that the objective set by the decree of the Minister of Finance was fulfilled and was primarily in the interests of the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U12	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! Since the Ministry of Finance decided to cancel the decrees of the Minister of Finance regarding Rõngu rural municipality and handed the detained money to Rõngu rural municipality in one part of December last year, according to the statistics of Rõngu municipality, last year the Estonian municipality was number 1 in relation to the fact that income tax has increased by more than a quarter. This puts them in a difficult position to apply for compensatory funds. Can you see that there is also an exception for the municipality on this issue, because the situation has actually developed because of the annulled decree?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U14	Thank you. It is difficult for me to comment on this issue. I assume that this refund has been received not in the previous periods, but in earlier periods, and once it has been recognised as income tax on the Rõngu municipality, then after it has been returned, this should not be reflected for the second time. But I'm just guessing I'm not familiar with the particular circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U15	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister! However, I would like to clarify. As we remember, Rõngu Municipality decided to finance the construction of a new school building, which had already started, with a loan, but in 2009 the Ministry of Finance imposed a loan limit. I mean, Rõngu Municipality was put in a difficult situation afterwards, there is a significant difference. Only then did Jürgen Ligi limit the loan with his order, forbidding to take on any further loan. When the head of the municipality became the Minister of Finance and a member of a party with you, the municipality was granted an exception. Is it fair to distinguish between our own and strangers in this way? And the question is, at the moment, only that they were put in a difficult situation afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U17	It was not put in a difficult situation afterwards. In my answers, I also made it very clear that the Ministry of Finance first warned the parish. Despite this, Rõngu Municipality signed a contract. After all, loan restrictions are known to all rural municipalities. The rate of 60% of the budget is known to absolutely all people who work in the local government no matter what the job is. It must be known to the municipality government or the municipal council. These additional times of crisis could not come to anyone unexpectedly. Ring was warned, but they didn't pay any attention to their intention to break the law. They broke the law. I wouldn't go along with your speculation. It is not wise to consider all the things that happen after that to happen because of that. All those things that occur after any event may not be caused by that event. Your speculations about party membership are unfounded and inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U18	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U19	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! It is true that the renovation of Rõngu School is certainly not a positive example of the activities of Estonian local governments. The way children had to go to seven places in school for nearly two years was very regrettable. But you have said several times from this remote control that the local government, or Rõngu Municipality, broke the law by signing a contract with the builder. I remember that when this topic was very keenly on the agenda, there was also a reference to the fact that a party in the council had approached the law enforcement authorities. Do you know what the state of this possible investigation is now and will this violation ever be punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U20	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I don't recall addressing law enforcement. I don't even know what it's like to answer your conversions. I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U21	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions for you right now. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U22	We will address the following question: Members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur, Kalev Kotkas, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vassilyev, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli, Indrek Saare, Helmen Küti, Mart Mere, Heljo Pikhofi, Urve Palo, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lember and Kalvi Tuld presented on 5 December 2011 with an inquiry into the trade in residence permits. It is once again presented to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. I ask Andres Anvelt, the representative of the speakers in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U23	Madam President! Prime Minister! Since we asked these questions, it has been two months today, as they say, that water has flowed into the sea. Many questions have been answered by the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu. Nevertheless, we are also asking for the opinion of the Prime Minister, and we are waiting for answers to nine questions concerning the so-called 'passport scandal' published on 30 November 2011 by the Spectator. Since many things go beyond Estonia, we also ask about Estonia's credibility and the ability of the government to cooperate after the serious question marks have been raised for many ministers in the meantime. In this connection, we ask Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to answer nine questions. There is a deep request that the Prime Minister read each question to the honourable Chamber before answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U24	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Do you think it is necessary that, in order to fully clarify the facts, law enforcement authorities should carry out additional checks to verify the existence of a real investment in the Republic of Estonia in all 147 cases mentioned by the media, as well as to determine whether the holders of this residence permit have ever entered the Republic of Estonia, or whether it is a fictitious residence permit, the real aim of which is a simplified visit to other countries of the European Union? ' Police and Border Guard Board has checked the list of persons published in the Estonian Express on 1 December 2011. 125 of them have a residence permit in Estonia. Fifty of these persons have received a residence permit in 2011, so it is not yet possible to say whether they have actually settled in Estonia and whether their company carries out real economic activities. In relation to the remaining 75 persons 61, the Police and Border Guard Board has initiated the procedure for revocation of the residence permit because there is a suspicion that the company does not have an economic activity or that the person has not settled in Estonia. In the course of the procedure, persons have the opportunity to prove that they actually meet the requirements laid down by law. To give you an idea of other countries' practice in this field, I will mention here the statistics on residence permits issued in Finland on the basis of entrepreneurship. In 2010, 97 residence permits were granted for entrepreneurship in Finland and 58 residence permits were revoked. From January to September 2011, 67 residence permits were granted for entrepreneurship and 69 residence permits were revoked. The number of residence permits granted for disallowed entrepreneurship was higher in 2011 than the number of residence permits granted, since the cancelled residence permits were predominantly granted in previous years. These figures help to understand that Estonia is not alone with its concerns. If a country wishes to allow third-country nationals to carry out business activities, the misuse of residence permits can only be demonstrated in the course of follow-up or mostly in the context of follow-up checks. The second question: 'The CEO of the Confederation of Employers, Tarmo Kriis, has announced through the media that they have not requested an increase in the immigration quota for entrepreneurship. The Government of the Republic decided, among other things, to increase this type of immigration quota. The IRL politicians' companies have also been included in the media to help formalise residence permits of this kind. Were the arguments put forward by the IRL ministers in order to meet their requests for an increase in the immigration quota convincing to you as Prime Minister? ' Yes, you were. Honest applicants for residence permits do not have to suffer because unfair applicants for residence permits have exhausted their quota of residence permits. Question 3: "What have you done to determine the accuracy of the claims they made during this period in the light of today's information? " Even in the light of today's knowledge, I have no reason to believe that ministers have provided misinformation to the government. Question 4: Do you think it's right that Isenda, Kabritsa, Stelmach's'residence permits' be helped by the ministers of your government and in no way undermine the credibility of your government? 'I cannot accept the 'aid' referred to in your question because, to my knowledge, no minister of the Government of the Republic has knowingly contributed to the trafficking of residence permits. Such a thing in the government would not be acceptable. Question 5: 'Based on Indrek Raudse, your coalition partner, who claims that granting residence permits to such persons gives us the opportunity to pay pensions from our budget, hire teachers and guarantee 2% participation in defence costs, we ask you whether you can indicate the tax revenue from the investments of third-country nationals who have received a residence permit in Estonia in the budget of the Estonian state. ' I have already expressed my opinion on this claim by Indrek Raud: it is emotional, I said it was stupid in a cube. I do not know, for example, the amount of tax revenue received from entrepreneurs who have invested in Estonia through debt-law relations. However, if the amount of the share capital was paid up and immediately recovered as a loan, the tax revenue could not be significant. Question 6: 'Political corruption is a much broader concept than a corrupt act in the sense of the Penal Code. In this case, since politicians took advantage of the weaknesses of legislation and made a profit of it, do you think it is political corruption and this action deserves to be condemned at the highest level of government administration? " The trade in residence permits has been condemned at the highest level of government administration. This has been condemned by both the President, the members of the government and the Members of Parliament. Question 7: 'How does Estonia's credibility among our Schengen partners be affected if the long-term allies of the Minister of the Interior and the top IRL politicians organise Estonian residence permits on a fictitious basis for a solid fee to third-country nationals who do not live in Estonia, do not manage real entrepreneurship in Estonia, but use the residence permit to move freely in the Schengen visa area? ' I cannot be pleased if it turns out that a Member has traded on residence permits. It doesn't honor any country. The eighth question: 'Your coalition partner's top politicians have helped to obtain a residence permit for Estonia and, with it, free movement in the Schengen visa space, among others, on Sergei Lalakin, with his wife and children, who the renowned Russian expert calls the leader of the influential Podolski crime group. I assume the kapo informed the Government of the Republic of Estonia about the application for a residence permit for a person of this background. If such information was received, why was the person allowed to be granted a residence permit? If not, was the lack of information due to the professional incompetence of the Special Service or the pressure of the Minister of the Interior curating them as a result of the silence? ' Applications for residence permits are processed by the Police and Border Guard Board, with the involvement of the Defence Police Department if necessary. The Government of the Republic and the Ministry of the Interior are not involved in the processing of residence permit applications and are not informed about the residence permit application of individual persons. The ninth question: 'What steps will the Government of the Republic take both in terms of legislative initiative and in terms of improving supervision, in order to prevent our country and its governance from reoccurrence in the future of compromising analogous cases? ' The Ministry of the Interior has started to develop amendments to the Aliens Act. The aim of the amendments is to reduce the misuse of residence permits and to ensure that only those whose entry into the country is in the public interest really arrive in Estonia. The Ministry of the Interior is considering imposing requirements, for example, on the remuneration of a member of the management body, on the person's own previous activities and on the company's previous economic activities. In addition, the conditions for granting a residence permit for business purposes with sufficient legal income will also be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U26	Thank you very much. Please, Andres Anvelt, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! I'm asking you in the light of that last question, now the time has passed. In January, quota limits were re-established and the Ministry of the Interior also did so by different species of residence permits. Interesting as it may be, but if other types of residence permits were subject to quantitative restrictions before the matter was clarified, when the Police and Border Guard Board had completed its internal investigations, this was not the case for business-related residence permits. Exactly the type of residence permit the Iron and Stelmach allegedly dealt with. So where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U28	Are you talking about the previous period or this period? At present, residence permits relating to entrepreneurship are not issued. Until all the circumstances are clear, we do not consider it possible to issue residence permits on the basis of business. It is natural, in itself, that until the regulations have been amended in such a way that the legislator's will is firmly protected, the old regulations cannot continue to apply. I spoke of Finnish examples. Finns, too, have had to revise their previous regulations very much. I have spoken about this speaker earlier about the example of Latvia. In Latvia, it was also the case that applicants for a residence permit started to invest. Although they did not make these investments in the form of debt-law relationships, as it seems to me that it was the case in Estonia today, they began to acquire real estate. After one of the real estate investors had received his residence permit, he sold the property to the next applicant for the permit. Finally, of course, the legislator ruled out such an option. I guess there are all kinds of rules in the world. In most cases, the simplest rules are used, which are said not to be very economically efficient. In other words, an investor who wants to obtain a residence permit in a country must place a deposit in a bank. It is said that bank deposits are relatively ineffective in terms of economic recovery. But if all effective measures are also malusable, whether it is real estate acquisition or debt-law relations in Estonia's example, then perhaps we should also think about asking applicants for a residence permit for bank deposits, which of course does not rule out that anyone applying for a residence permit on the basis of a business basis should not engage in entrepreneurship in Estonia. This would still be an additional guarantee that the real purpose of applying for a residence permit is far away from business.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U29	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U30	Thank you. A number of analyses of this situation have been published and some of the activities carried out in the Ministry of the Interior itself have also been published. Interestingly, this message is somewhat contradictory. Tomorrow, we will probably set up a committee in the Riigikogu to clarify this matter. But as Prime Minister, what is your understanding of things? Did our state officials announce to their superiors at the right time to politicians that there was some kind of coup in Estonia on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U31	It is, of course, difficult for me to determine this timeliness from this speaking board. Since the scope was quite large, one might think that it would have been possible to report earlier and that misuses might have been noted earlier. The first observations came in April-May and I think that the Minister of the Interior also reacted quite quickly to these comments. He set a limit on the issue of residence permits on the basis of business and this limit was then equal to the number of residence permits issued at the time, which means that he stopped issuing residence permits on the basis of business. Of course, it could have been noted earlier that there have been some loopholes against the legislator's will. But I very much hope that the committee of inquiry that will be set up in the Riigikogu tomorrow will find out the whole truth and that the committee of inquiry will also make proposals on how to prevent such misuse in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U32	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U33	Thank you. Prime Minister! I have a little bit of a question. In fact, as you said, there were quite a few levels of awareness of this problem for a long time. In this context, I have a question of responsibility. As I understand it, an officer of the Police and Border Guard Board, who writes 147 corporate addresses at School 1/3, could still have some sort of doubt that this isn't quite right. In my understanding, then, there are two options: has the minister told him from above that you should still sign in, even though it is fictitious, or is it a completely incompetent official that we should not have in Estonia. Since you have obtained the assurance from the Minister's reasoning that he has nothing to do with this, would it not be necessary, however, to have the responsibility of the officials? Do you agree that someone has to be held accountable, Minister or Officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U34	Thank you. I can only repeat the answer to the previous question. I hope that the Committee of Inquiry will find out all the details. However, the fact that a large number of companies have been registered at one address in itself does not necessarily assume any criminal behaviour. One thing is the legal address of the company and the other thing is where a particular company operates. And these addresses have not yet been requested by the legislator when applying for a residence permit, so there is again a legal vacuum. In itself, it is not possible to resent the fact that Estonian lawyers, entrepreneurs really help people who apply for a residence permit in Estonia. If the Estonian state issues visas for visiting Estonia, then our representations also typically use the help of intermediary companies. When we are talking, for example, about the Russian Federation, it is the intermediary companies accepted by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs who collect visa applications across Russia, bring them to the consulate or embassy, and then they process these applications. It gets bad when the grounds for obtaining visas or residence permits are artificially created. In this case, it may be that intermediaries have acted legally, that they have not broken the law, which does not mean at all that they have acted in accordance with the will of the legislator. The legislator has wanted Estonia to receive unique investments, which we do not have on our own, which would help move our economy forward, and now somebody has discovered that if you pay a certain amount of the company's share capital and take it back as a loan immediately from there, it is a sufficient investment for the Estonian state. That's not what the legislator wants! If something like this were to be dealt with by some clever corner lawyer, the legislator would have to blame himself, blame officials who did not notice misuse. But when politicians do this kind of business, it is unambiguously condemning, deplorable, and I repeat once again: the members of the Government of the Republic, members of the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic have already done so repeatedly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U35	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U36	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! My question is a continuation of the positions of the two pre-questioners. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior has come up with its own analysis. It has been pointed out that, regrettably, there has been a lack of control on the issue of permits and no follow-up at all. The Police and Border Guard Board tried to disprove this immediately or shortly thereafter, and I know that by the end of January the Border Guard Board had to have its own analysis carried out. He probably hasn't had time to do it by then, and he's wanted an extension. I hope that you have also spoken to the Minister for the Interior about this area. Do you think this problem is due to more administrative inability or is it purely a sloppy one in the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U37	I would not like to use either definition, nor the administrative inability to highlight, or the sloppyness. In itself, if new practices are introduced, you could also blame the legislator for being either incapable or sloppy. Just all the regulations, the possibilities of misuse are usually not foreseeable by the creators of these standards. For me, however, the question is whether misuses should have been discovered earlier or whether these misuses were discovered when the first possibility was made. This is where I hope for help, first and foremost, from the Committee of Inquiry, to make this assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U38	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U39	Thank you. Prime Minister! In answering one of the previous questions, you said that legal investments that would help to move the Estonian economy forward are welcome. However, we are now in a situation where the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, has sent a regulation to the government, according to which no residence permit will be issued in the first half of this year on the basis of membership of the company's board or adequate legal income. In fact, we are in a situation where a politician, because his name is so smeared on this issue, cannot propose solutions without taking extreme measures on this issue. Do you believe that Ken-Marti Vaher has the opportunity to ensure that residence permits are still issued in such a way that Estonia can continue to have legal investments that will help to move the economy forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U40	Thank you. In the past, we are not attracted to investments on such grounds, and the Estonian economy grew quite well then. We have now seen that we have created one additional basis to make Estonia's investment environment more attractive to investors, and we also see that this basis has been clearly abused. Now, once again, the pure task of optimising is what we need more. Can we forgive any investors who have not made fictitious investments, in my opinion, fictitious investors who put money in and take it out immediately, even though there may be doubts as to whether they have put something in and taken it out in the first place, whether we necessarily need investments that will inevitably be accompanied by the withdrawal of residence permits, or whether we will stop for some time until the system is in order on this basis? I think that, in this case, where we have not yet established a new set of rules, there is no justification whatsoever for issuing these residence permits under the old rules. It is the competence of the Minister to set a limit by sub-category and this may also be zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U41	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U42	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I will ask for your assessment of the activities of the Committee of Inquiry. The draft of this committee of inquiry also includes the closing date for the Commission's activities. According to the initiators, this could have been in the area of 1 October, i.e. after the summer session-free period, and under the little pressure of the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it still became 1 June. How effective do you think the work of this committee can be if the deadline for its operation is over before the companies that have been granted the residence permit last year have to submit the annual report?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U43	The deadline for the final report of this committee of inquiry is deeply a matter of organisation of the work of the Riigikogu, and as Prime Minister I would not want to intervene in any way in these matters. You've always done it on your own, you can do it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U44	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Today, the centre of gravity of the residence permit scandal has been placed with two politicians or former politicians, and they are referred to in the press as such and as such. But quite little is said that dozens of officials dealt with residence permits. I don't know exactly how this procedure works, but it's probably the way the documents go from one official to another official. A lot of cases are already suspicious, as you yourself said, when dozens of companies are registered at one address. It's not against the law, but there's still doubt about it. One of these officials either didn't want to notice it or noticed it, but he didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U46	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U47	They kept quiet about it together. Question: how do you assess the activities of these officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U48	Thank you. You want to get an estimate from me before the investigation has been carried out. I assume that officials have performed their duties in the best of knowledge, in the best of faith, and that they have not deliberately tried not to notice or deny anything. In my understanding, the discretion of officials in a particular case has been very limited. Simply explained: if the applicant has met this, the second, the third, the fourteenth and the multiplicity of any condition, he or she shall receive this authorisation, if one condition is not fulfilled, he or she shall not. Such a pure accounting approach. Perhaps in the future, it would also be wise to give more discretion to officials. Generally speaking, one official is not usually given very much discretion, but if there is some kind of collegial body that makes the final decision, I would expect a certain margin of discretion in this decision, not just a formal reading of compliance with the conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U49	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The second inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U50	The third question is the inquiry into the Schengen visa space submitted on 5 December 2011 by members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, Kalle Laaneti, Kalev Kallo, Deniss Borodichi, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korbi, Tarmo Tamme, Lembit Kaljuvee, Priit Toobali, Jüri Ratas, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luigas and Vladimir Velman. This is again for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. On behalf of the performers, please speak in Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U51	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The issue of our enquiry is also the scandal of the IRL residence permits, but in the context of the Schengen visa space. The issues concern the internal security of the Schengen visa area, the international reputation, political responsibility, the procedure for processing residence permits and its problems and, of course, the conclusions that we should draw from this story. We have asked a total of six questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U52	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer your questions, although, to a large extent, substantive answers have already been given in response to the previous inquiry with the same content. The first question: 'Estonia has received its international reputation. How do you intend to take responsibility for what happened? ' Responsible culprits and these have left the Riigikogu Indrek Raudne and left Tallinn City Council Nikolai Stelmach. Their former party and the public have assessed this business. In Mart Laari's words: 'It may be a thousand times, but trade in residence permits is not acceptable. ' In addition, a special committee has been set up in the Riigikogu to determine the circumstances relating to the granting of residence permits and the increase in immigration quotas, who will give an ethical assessment of what has happened and is expected to propose changes to the regulations. The second question: 'How do you assess the work of the Government of the Republic in the light of what has happened, whose activities enabled uncontrolled distribution of residence permits in Estonia? " The residence permit business allowed for shortcomings in legislation and shortcomings in the morals of those involved in this business. When the Government of the Republic established the immigration limit on 13 January 2011, the misuse of residence permits was not yet known. In May 2011, the Police and Border Guard Board informed the Ministry of the Interior that the immigration limit would be met unusually quickly, as unprecedented numbers of applications for residence permits to work as a member of the management body have been submitted. As a result, there was a risk that there would be no possibility of applying for a temporary residence permit on any other basis due to the rapid fulfilment of the limit with the members of the management body. Upon the emergence of a problem, the Minister of the Interior, by regulation which entered into force on 11 July, set the limit on residence permits for members of the management bodies at 580, which is why the residence permit for employment was no longer granted on this basis in 2011. In the second half of 2011, there was a suspicion that there was also misuse in applying for residence permits on the basis of sufficient legal income. Compared to 2010, the number of residence permit applications based on this basis had increased significantly in 2011: 58 applications in 2010 and 152 in 2011. When the immigration limit was fulfilled on 31 August 2011, the Minister of the Interior proposed to the Government of the Republic to increase the limit to a maximum legal limit of 0.1% of the Estonian permanent population. The Government of the Republic carefully considered this decision and also took into account the intention of the Minister of the Interior to establish by decree the division of the limit by residence permit basis in order to leave as much of the limit as possible to the skilled labour that the Estonian economy needs first and foremost. If the Minister of the Interior had not established the division of the immigration limit according to the grounds for granting the residence permit, the immigration limit would have been completed simply in the order in which the residence permit applications were received. In December 2011, when Eesti Ekspress Kooli Street published a list of 147 gold clients, the Police and Border Guard Board carried out a follow-up of the residence permits of persons on the list, at the order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of the 125, 50 residence permits have been issued in 2011 and cannot be evaluated until the company has operated for at least one year. With regard to the remaining 75 residence permits, the Police and Border Guard Board, following a follow-up of 61 cases, had doubts that persons would not comply with the requirements and obligations laid down by law, and therefore the Police and Border Guard Board had initiated a procedure for the revocation of the residence permits of these persons. In the course of the procedure, persons have the opportunity to prove that they actually meet the requirements laid down by law. On 15 December, the Ministry of the Interior launched a duty monitoring procedure to verify whether the procedures for granting and following-up residence permits within the Police and Border Guard Board are sufficient to prevent misuse of residence permits in order to verify the organisation of the granting, extension and revocation of residence permits by the Police and Border Guard Board. The Government of the Republic has reacted quickly and adequately to the unexpected increase in the number of residence permit applications and the risk of their misuse, although I admit that it could have reacted even more quickly. Question 3: 'How do you, as Head of Government, view the granting of residence permits that jeopardise the security of the Schengen visa area? ' Rapid detection and prevention of misuse of residence permits and visas are part of the security of the Schengen area. In a situation where there is more residence permit applications than the immigration limit allows them to be granted and there are risks of misuse of residence permits, both the Aliens Act and the practice of its implementation will be reviewed. The Ministry of the Interior is preparing the necessary legislative changes, and the current procedure of the Police and Border Guard Board will be reviewed. However, when it comes to evaluation in particular, it is still judgmental. Question 4: 'Estonia must ensure security in the single Schengen visa area. How does such a case affect Estonia's international credibility? ' Estonia is a reliable Schengen Member State that meets all the requirements and conditions set. As I said in reply to the previous question, the Ministry of the Interior is working on improving our legal space to prevent any future misuse of residence permits. Nor is this misuse very clearly good for the Estonian state, either in terms of reputation or in terms of partnership, for questioners. Question 5: "Do you consider this to be a matter of power trading? ' The state prosecutor's office has reported that according to known information, the scandal of residence permits lacks the characteristics of the crime and there are no grounds for starting criminal proceedings. However, if you ask me for an assessment of the activities related to the residence permits of Iron and Stelmach, this is unambiguously condemning. Question 6: What measures will you take to resolve the situation and avoid further problems? ' The Ministry of the Interior has started to develop amendments to the Aliens Act. The aim of the amendments is to reduce the misuse of residence permits and to ensure that only those in the public interest really arrive in Estonia. According to the Ministry of the Interior, it must also be possible to assess the company's substantive economic activities, and this is already the case in the application procedure. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is considering imposing requirements, for example, on the size of the board's membership fee, on the person's previous activities and on the company's previous economic activities. In addition, the conditions for granting a residence permit are also reviewed in cases where there is sufficient legal income and entrepreneurship. Since Estonia is a Member State of the European Union and the Schengen Convention, we have become more attractive than before to those who come to Estonia with honest intentions, as well as those who wish to misuse the system. In a rapidly changing environment, it is not always possible to prevent problems, but it is important to create a system to detect them quickly and then react accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U54	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, question to the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U55	Thank you. Prime Minister! Regarding your answer to the fifth question: how is it possible that, as a general rule, the procedure for issuing residence permits took between a few months and a half years to get it through the Iron and Stelmach offices in less than a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U56	Thank you. It's really hard for me to comment on this remote. Again, I expect the Committee of Inquiry to determine whether, in certain cases, the swift processing of applications was in any way regarded as a trading of influence or was a normal practice. After all, we cannot regard the slow processing of applications as the norm; it is rather a matter of urgency if the legislator has not set any waiting times. And this mediation, which I also mentioned in the case of visas, should, in principle, help people save time. If they do all the things on time once, that means right, then eventually the permits will be received faster, they will be visas, residence permits, whatever. But this kind of mediation is not acceptable when the intermediary starts to fabricate some of the bases on which certain benefits, whether it be visas, residence permits or whatever, will become part of it. In essence, there is nothing to blame for the activities of consultancy firms, but if this goes against the will of the legislator, then such action can only be condemned. So I cannot now assess whether the faster processing of some applications was criminal or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U57	Any more questions for the Prime Minister? No, it's not. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The third question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U58	We are going to the fourth question, which is the inquiry into the institution of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendiev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Deniss Borodichi, Olga Sõtnik, Andres Anvelt, Jaak Allik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marianne Mikko and Helmen Küti on 7 December 2011. The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. On behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, I ask for a speech chair at Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U59	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! An inquiry has been made on behalf of the ambassadors of the two groups. In fact, it started when we met Mari-Liis Sepper, Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment in the minority support group. We discussed his activities and found out that he could not manage the other part of his work, namely monitoring compliance with the Equal Treatment Act, because he does not have the resources and the money to do so. Let me briefly remind you that the Equal Treatment Act was passed in December 2008 and these functions were assigned to the Gender Equality Commissioner. He was allowed an additional financial reserve for this purpose, but so far this reserve has not been allocated. In comparison, while Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder has 58 officials at his office, Mari-Liis Sepper's office has an official in addition to his own office. And in 2004, when his office received 14 complaints, there were 350 complaints last year. According to the law, it should take two months to deal with a complaint, but this is not possible because two people cannot deal with 350 complaints per year with such a deadline. We therefore have questions for the Prime Minister. I say so much that the Council of Europe, in its latest report on the implementation of the Framework Convention on National Minorities, has also accused the Government of the Republic of Estonia that our institution of the Commissioner for Equal Treatment is underfunded and that something must be done quickly. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied that Norwegian money was coming and that this could solve the problem. Today, I've checked it out, just in case. It's a bit of an exaggeration. When Norwegian money comes, it is only in July and, in any case, it is not for the monitoring of equal treatment, but for the work of gender equality. So we look forward to Mr. Prime Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U60	Thank you. I ask for a chair to be answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'In the debate on the Equal Treatment Act, Väino Linde, then chairman of the Constitutional Committee, stated that the adoption of the Act is not so much necessary for the Estonian state, but for the European Commission and Estonia's relations in the European Union. To what extent do you consider the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment to be the prime minister for Estonia? ' The institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment is provided for in the Equal Treatment Act. Consequently, it would simply be inappropriate to determine the importance of the institution of the Commissioner concerned on a numerical scale. The second question: 'Does the Government of the Republic plan to increase the state funding and composition of the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment in the coming years? " The preamble to the inquiry indicates that the question has been the subject of a memorandum between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Norway. In accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009 to 2014, this mechanism will, inter alia, finance a programme on gender equality and work-life balance. The total amount of this programme is EUR 2 million. The programme is expected to be approved in summer 2012 and will run until the end of 2015. One of the expected results of this programme is the strengthening of the capacity of gender equality organisations and networks. In developing the programme, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is the programme operator, has provided for a predefined project to allocate at least EUR 700000 to the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. Estonia's own co-financing accounts for 15% of this. With additional financial resources, the Commissioner will propose measures to improve anti-discrimination law enforcement by raising awareness, assisting victims of discrimination and enhancing the capacity of officials dealing with victims of discrimination. The Commissioner also plans actions to promote gender equality and support gender mainstreaming. The programme will be submitted to Norway for review this month and will be approved by the summer of 2012. According to the Equal Treatment Act, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner himself confirms the structure of the office serving him and appoints his staff. Question 3: 'The Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment is independent. At the same time, his budget is protected by the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Government of the Republic, although part of his work relates to the competence of the Ministry of Justice. How do you assess the proposal to make funding for the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment cross-ministerial? " Unfortunately, it is not clear from the questioning that the questioners have in mind that part of the work of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner relates to the competence of the Ministry of Justice. I recall that according to § 67 of the Government of the Republic Act, the Ministry of Social Affairs is governed by, among other things, the promotion of equal treatment and equality between women and men and the coordination of activities in this field, as well as the drafting of relevant legislation and drafts. The Ministry of Justice, on the other hand, includes, pursuant to § 59 of the Act, the coordination of legislation, the systematisation of legislation and the publication of the State Gazette, the organisation of courts of first and second instance, the prosecutor's office, forensics, prisons, notaries' trade and legal services, as well as the decision to extradite foreign nationals or stateless persons, the coordination of intellectual property and data protection matters, and the competence of the Ministry of Legislative Affairs. In this case, there is no reason to make the funding of the Commissioner's institution supraministerially based on the competences of the ministries. At the same time, the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment has the opportunity to participate in the budget negotiations in his office. For example, the current Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment participated in the budget meeting of the Ministry of Social Affairs with the Ministry of Finance in preparing the 2012 state budget. Indeed, during the 2012 budget negotiations, a request was made to increase the budget of the Commissioner's office. Unfortunately, this was not possible this year. The budgetary orientation of the government in terms of uncertainty is that the operating costs of the institutions do not increase. Operating costs can only be increased if the budgetary coverage is found by changing priorities within the Ministry's area of government and by redirecting resources. On this occasion, such changes were not considered to be the most appropriate and necessary. Question 4: 'How timely and truthful do you think it is in the reply of the Government of the Republic to the report of the Council of Europe that reflects the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment? " As a whole, to be up-to-date and truthful. It should however be made clear here that the EUR 2 million in question in the preamble to the inquiry is intended for the whole issue of equality, of which 0.7 million will be directly available to the Commissioner. Question 5: 'The lack of complaints to the Commissioner may be due to the lack of an information campaign on the extension of competences. How much do you think it is necessary to carry out an information campaign in both Estonian and other languages, and how do you think a broad-based campaign could affect the number of complaints? ' The statistics so far on the approach to the Commissioner show that Estonian society is aware of the existence of the Commissioner's institution. It can also be concluded from the sharp increase in the number of appeals since 2009 that the entry into force of the Equal Treatment Act and, consequently, the expansion of the Commissioner's powers have not been overlooked. While there were 78 referrals to the Commissioner in 2007, 24 of which were about suspicion of discrimination, and 82 in 2008, 25 of which were about suspicion of discrimination, 161 were already addressed in 2009, 51 of which were suspected of discrimination. In 2010, there were 288 complaints, 47 of which suspected that they had been discriminated against. The Commissioner's activities and matters falling within his remit have also been dealt with in the press. According to information received from the Commissioner, journalists approached him 48 times in 2011. Only recently, the Commissioner published a booklet in Estonian, Russian and English, which briefly describes the Commissioner's institution, provides examples of discriminatory situations and gives guidance to people on how to act in cases of suspected discrimination. It also calls for the Commissioner to address his concerns. As regards the single statement on the Commissioner's website that the information provided on the website is not equally available in Estonian, Russian and English, it is indeed not a one-to-one translation from Estonian into Russian and English. However, the most important information concerning the submission of a statement to the Commissioner, the competence of the Commissioner and his contact details are available in all the languages mentioned. The promotion of gender equality in the Estonian ESF programme 2011 to 2013 will also be funded through the renewal of the Commissioner's website. Already mentioned in the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, the proposed activities include a number of awareness-raising activities. Although the focus of the proposed programme is on gender equality, the programme will also focus on other grounds mentioned in the Equal Treatment Act within the framework of several issues of discrimination. In general, the combined impact of two or more possible grounds for discrimination on the opportunities and status of a person in society is several times negative. For example, the situation of a disabled woman in the labour market may be aggravated by both disability and gender. Under no circumstances can I agree with the questioners' assumptions that there are few complaints because the public has not been actively invited to complain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U62	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U63	Thank you, Madam President. In response to the last sentence so much that it is actually the Commissioner's own opinion, there would be much more complaints than there would be a corresponding campaign. The campaign, however, was not encouraged because it was clear that they simply could not do it. My question is this: as Prime Minister, how do you assess a situation where the state is offering some kind of service that is not available to people in reality? As your head of government, do you see the need to make this service available? In reply to my written question, the Chancellor of Justice offered to extend the time limit for proceedings, which is now two months. Complaints received by the Chancellor of Justice relate precisely to the fact that this deadline is not respected, and complaints are dealt with much longer. Have you considered this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U64	Thank you. After all, this question of time limits for proceedings comes down to financial opportunities. It is likely that a person who turns to the Commissioner for Equality with a suspicion of discrimination or on any other basis has reason to assume that his application, his application, will be processed quickly or within a reasonable period of time. Two months is usually a reasonable time, but what goes over it cannot be considered as a general rule. If there are so many applications that they cannot be processed within two months, then the question will go back to money. It is probably necessary to contribute more financially so that all applications can be processed within the normal time limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U65	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! However, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner is acting and there is some sign of his activity in the press. But I've seen that his main difficulty is once again on the gender principle, he deals with men and women. Well, of course, that's an eternal question, as long as men don't give birth, and as long as women don't work as a tractorer, that question always stays up. However, the Commissioner must also, for example, make sure that there is no discrimination on grounds of age. This is very and very much in our society. We look at employment, bank loans, we look at voluntary health insurance, companies that offer this service, over 65 years old...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U67	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U68	...don't. What is your assessment of age issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U69	However, the Commissioner himself is very determined by what he can contribute more to and what he cannot contribute so much to, because the resource is limited. However, I do not quite agree with the approach that we have gender inequality in any way over-emphasised and racial discrimination or age discrimination left out of attention. Gender inequality should be addressed even more. We have had a lot of talk about the fact that Estonia has excelled in the European Union in terms of the greatest differences in income between men and women. It's not normal. This means that this issue needs to be dealt with in depth. However, when statements are received concerning racial discrimination or age discrimination, I expect the Commissioner for Equality to process these statements as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U70	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U71	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question is the work of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment on the part concerning equal treatment, in particular minorities and discrimination on racial or ethnic grounds or any other such basis. Of course, this Commissioner is particularly concerned with the statements of discrimination cases that have already taken place, i.e. the symptoms. I am moved to ask this: do you not think that we need to restore the position of Minister of Population so that he proactively coordinates this issue and that there is less reason to appeal to the Commissioner for Equal Treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U72	Thank you. I don't think I'm a minister unless the minister has a briefcase. Yes, certain short-term coordination tasks can be carried out by such ministers, but in the longer term, more effective activities are still carried out within the remit of a particular ministry with the necessary technical capabilities. I think that at the moment when the Minister for Social Affairs is dealing with the issues that are in his administration, the Ministry of Culture is dealing with the issues that remain in his administration, and no one is trying to peck on anything in the administration of one, another, third and fourth ministries, in order, at any cost, to prove to the public the necessity of its existence, the results are better. I expect that a clear structure, clear operating mechanisms, will ultimately produce better results. Although, in certain exceptional cases, the short-term amplification of a subject through the appointment of a Minister without a portfolio may be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U73	Any more questions for the Prime Minister? There are no questions on this subject. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The subject of the fourth inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U74	The fifth item on the agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Priit Toobali, Olga Sõtnik, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamme, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Deniss Borodichi, Valeri Korbi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Mailis Reps and Esther Tuiksoo on 8 December 2011 about the programme 'Every child's kindergarten place'. This is presented to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. I'd like to ask you to represent the questioners in the speech chair, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U75	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Our questioning concerns the infamous program 'Every Child's Kindergarten Place'. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015 states that the goal of the family and population policy of the government association is to create a family-friendly country from Estonia, where people are happy to have children and raise children. Well, that's a great goal. While parental benefit accounts for a large part of family benefit, studies show that future parents are increasingly motivated by a stable future after the end of parental benefit. Economic crises and two negative additional budgets in 2009 have put local authorities in a very difficult position. In addition, in 2009 the Government of the Republic suspended the programme "Every Child's Kindergarten Place" during the same year and this programme has not been restored since then, neither in 2010 nor in 2011. For this very noble and good program, 'Every child's kindergarten place', we have five questions for Mr Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U76	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the first two questions together. The first question: 'How justified do you consider the suspension of the programme 'Every child's kindergarten place', given that the purpose of the government union's family and population policy is to create a family-friendly state from Estonia? Do you think that savings are justified on children? " The second question: " Several coalition politicians have loudly criticised the rise in kindergartens' fees. In the example of Rae rural municipality, it can be said that the increase in the place fee for kindergarten would help to prevent the restoration of state investments in the former volume. What are the reasons why the state budget for next year did not find a way to restore the "Every Child's Kindergarten" programme? ' Under the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, it is the responsibility of the local government to create the possibility for all children of 1.5 to 7 years of age living in the administrative territory of which parents so wish to attend a child's institution. The Government of the Republic considers it important that every child has the opportunity to acquire high-quality early childhood education, and that is why local authorities have been supported in creating kindergarten places and increasing the energy efficiency of children's institutions from the European Union's Structural Funds HOME Plan, the money from the sale of Kyoto allowances and other funds. Between 2007 and 2013, almost 113 projects to build or renovate children's institutions have been publicly supported and supported for a total amount of EUR 48.8 million, or EEK 770 million. Indeed, at the beginning of 2009, the "Every child's kindergarten place' programme was suspended, through which five projects of renovation or construction by local authorities had been supported in 2008 for a total amount of EEK 75 million, or EUR 4.8 million. Although this project was stopped abruptly due to changed economic circumstances, local authorities and the state have invested even more in the creation of new kindergarten places and the development of an environment for the growth of children's institutions during the 2008-2011 period than was planned under the original "Every child's kindergarten place' programme. In 2008, the total amount of grants under the "Every child's day-care centre" programme was 4.8 million euros and five projects were supported. Under the local government investment plan, the KOIT scheme, the construction and renovation of kindergartens will be supported by 35 million euros in 2007-2012 and the beneficiaries will be 46. The total amount of aid granted under the Structural Support measure "Development of urban areas' for the years 2009 to 2013 is EUR 4 million and the beneficiaries are two municipalities. From the sale of Kyoto allowances, €5 million will be used for energy saving in 2010-2011 to repair day-care centres and 60 children's institutions will be the beneficiaries. Perhaps there will be a total of EUR 48,8 million between 2007 and 2013 and this money will go to 113 kindergartens. The third question: 'How do you assess the proposal to reduce parents' costs by covering day-to-day meals for kindergarten children? 'According to the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, the municipality or city council sets the proportion of parents covered, which may be differentiated depending on the age of the child, the management costs of the institution or other circumstances. 2010-11. In the academic year, the total share of the parent covered was on average 21 euros per month. This is one of the lowest in Europe and represents 2 to 3% of Estonia's average monthly wage. I remember very well the times when I paid 10% of my monthly salary in kindergarten for my child's food. The daily cost of the child's food is decided by the child care centre, which includes the parents' representatives. The full and partial reimbursement of the cost of the child's food costs and the place fee to the vulnerable families shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down by the local government. The current Pre-school Children's Institution Act allows the different needs of families and children to be taken into account at local level, so the government does not consider it appropriate to regulate the cost of the place, including the child's food, nationally. Under no circumstances do I consider it appropriate to waive the principle of needs-based support for kindergartens' food money. If a local authority does so in the light of its possibilities, it is up to them to decide. Good luck to them! It is still a matter of preference, whether kindergartens or urban television, whether kindergartens or a party city page, whether kindergartens or free bus rides for everyone. Question 4: 'The development of pre-school education is one of the priorities of education in the European Union. The Lisbon Strategy aims at 95% of all 4-year-olds up to school age participating in early childhood education by 2020. How real do you think it is to achieve this objective if local authorities still lack financial resources? " Diversifying and ensuring access to early childhood education and care is a central objective of both education and family and population policies. Estonia is guided by the European Union 2020 strategy's objective of 95% of all children, from four years of age to school age, to receive early childhood education by 2020. The European Union average was 90.7% in 2008, 95% in Estonia. These are comparable data from Eurostat. In this sense, the objective mentioned in Estonia has been met. Our minimum task is not to withdraw from it. Due to the increased birth rate, domestic migration and the emergence of new residential areas, problems occur especially in providing kindergarten places in Tallinn and Tartu for children between half and two years of age and in their neighbouring municipalities. In order to facilitate the availability of kindergarten places, a draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act is being prepared, which specifies the responsibilities of the local government in providing kindergarten places and makes it more flexible to operate and set up groups. In the case of a child under four years of age residing in the municipality's or city's administrative territory, the municipality or city government whose administrative territory has the child's place of residence may replace the kindergarten place by childcare service. Here again, it should be said that this is, first and foremost, a matter of preference, whether kindergartens or urban television, whether kindergartens or a party city page, whether kindergartens or free bus rides for everyone. Question 5: 'The programme of action of the Government Association requires more children to be born in Estonia. Today, however, there are not enough kindergarten places for all children. When and to what extent are "Every child's kindergarten place" or a similar programme to help local authorities solve the problem of the shortage of kindergarten places? Local authorities consider it important to provide children with high-quality early childhood education, i.e. they carry out continuous monitoring of the number of children aged 1.5 to 7 living in administrative territory and the need for childcare facilities, renovate existing childcare facilities, create new childcare facilities and groups, and support the creation of flexible early childhood education and care facilities. The local authorities' investment plan, the so-called "KITE Plan 2007-2012', has supported and supported nearly 46 projects for the construction or renovation of children's institutions (total volume of nearly EUR 35 million). The Structural Support measure "Development of urban areas' has supported and supported two projects of children's institutions (around EUR 4 million in total) in 2009-2013 and the proceeds from the sale of Kyoto allowances, as has already been said earlier, have supported and supported nearly 60 projects of energy efficiency in children's institutions (around EUR 5 million in total), which also allows local authorities to restructure their spending on children's institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U78	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U79	Thank you. Prime Minister! As a person who knows Tartu, you can certainly tell why there are so many children in the order of kindergarten in Tartu. This is a very large number compared to Tallinn, where only 390 seats are missing. If there are 4,000 places missing for Estonia at all, Tartu accounts for almost a third of it. What's it coming from, or what's the money coming from in Tartu? There's no city TV.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U80	It is good to live in Tartu and people also love to have children in Tartu. In addition to the fact that the Tartians are happy to give birth to children themselves, many people will also move to Tartu from around Tartu, South Estonia, especially because it will be possible to give their children a good education someday. This demographic wave, the mid-term decline in the birth rate and the current increase have not been uniform across local governments in Estonia. In some cities, in some areas, more children are born, unfortunately in some areas not at all. I guess that's where the trouble comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U81	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As always, you love the bill. After all, this provision of the law, which says that early childhood education and care must be accessible to all, is not being complied with. Many municipalities have queues and a parent, usually a mother, cannot go to work because there is nowhere to leave the child for work. I want to tell you that if you went to kindergarten or childcare for 10% of your salary, today, if your mother gets a minimum wage and she has two children in kindergarten, she's going to be paid half. If he has to take the baby to babysitting, he'll be paid. My question is this: when will the Government of the Republic ensure that the law is enforced in all municipalities, including Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U83	Thank you. This is, however, the first task for the local government, since the law imposes such obligations on it. It is a pity that not all local authorities are able to carry out statutory tasks. I know that there are also active measures taken in Tartu to ensure that there are no more queues in kindergartens at the very nearest time, so that there is a kindergarten place for every child.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U85	However, I do not want to generalise that some pay half of their salary for caring for their children and others pay the entire salary. You can't pay your entire salary because you have to live on something. But I do remember that my salary was 110 rubles, and I had to pay for a kid in kindergarten at 12.60. At the moment, we pay typically 2-3 per cent of our income for a kindergarten place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U86	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U87	Thank you. Prime Minister, it was embarrassing to hear your answers. It's not solid to come in with such a populist shovel! I would say that you should actually read the Teacher's page from time to time, for example, which gives you a much more balanced reflection of the problems of kindergartens. There was an article last month, or at the end of last year, entitled 'The place fee for Childhood is rising in many municipalities', which said that the most important place fee for kindergarten was to be raised by Rae vald, 74%. The place fee rose to EUR 47. The place fee is also higher than that of Tallinn in Tartu and Pärnu. You said that the problem is that some cities are giving birth and some areas are not. I think that many municipalities have also had a problem with the fact that, with the first negative additional budget in 2009, they took away their revenue base and said that kindergartens could be saved. When are you planning to give this money back, now that Estonia is doing so well economically?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U88	Thank you. You seem to be exaggerating. No revenue base was not taken away from local authorities in 2009. One correct small part of the income base was taken away from the income base, i.e. 11,93% of the income tax, remained at 11.4%. I think we could all remember what happened when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. You have also repeatedly heard from me from this speaker about the fact that local government revenues decreased much less than the revenue of the central government in the current crisis. I have just mentioned the amounts granted to local governments to create places in kindergartens, to repair kindergartens, to improve energy savings. Everyone could see that the sum of the sum of the amounts we found in times of crisis was also able to help kindergartens (which are in local government administration) with a larger amount than we would have helped if the "Every child's kindergarten place" programme had continued. It does not make sense to think of the crisis as nonexistent. There was a crisis, the necessary austerity measures were implemented in the crisis, but these measures were implemented in such a way that public funding for kindergartens did not suffer. However, I repeat once again: financing kindergartens is the responsibility of the local government, not the central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U89	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U90	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, every time we talk about such a thing as the local government's revenue base, everyone knows that soon the 'Tallinn Television', style 'Carthage must be destroyed', will be on the air. But I'd still come back to the order of Tartu. As I recall, the population of Tallinn has grown by 16,000 people over the last five years. Is the population of the city of Tartu really growing so fast, about four times faster than Tallinn's? If that's the case, please say it, we'll put it in the verbatim and I'll enjoy it tonight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U91	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U92	Thank you. He is not now that the sum of the population in Tartu will grow very madly. However, the number of children is increasing, both in kindergarten and in schools. While in many local governments in Estonia there is a problem with which to fill large schools, because children are reduced, there is a problem in Tartu with how to get new school houses to accommodate all the children who want to go to school. The age distribution of residents may not be the same in all cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I would, however, continue to ask the same question, but I would put my question in a slightly different way to get a concrete answer. Why is there no 1,100 child-supported day-care centres in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U94	The answer has already been repeatedly said. Because children are born much more than planned, kindergartens are not rubber. The city has not had enough resources to build new kindergartens. The reason is understandable to everyone. But in the end, it is not that the desires of those who are in line remain unsatisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U95	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! You were talking about large sums of money devoted to the implementation of this programme. I would like to clarify and hear from you how many new places we got for children in the last four to five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U97	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U98	How many more kindergarten places have been created in the last four to five years, I do not have the statistics with me today. However, I can repeat the amount of money that I have already mentioned here today several times, how much the central government has given to local governments in order to create more kindergarten places and improve the situation in kindergartens. This amount will be EUR 48,8 million between 2007 and 2013. This is a state contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I'd like to come back to Mrs Pikhof's question, but I'll give you an example from Ida-Viru County in Narva. There are plenty of places, but there are also a lot of unemployed people. The unemployed are whole families, and they have a problem with not having to send money or children to kindergarten. This amount is not 3% of the family budget, but higher than the other costs included. There is a problem that children will have to go to school tomorrow, but their preparation will not be enough, and other problems will develop from there. Do you think this trend is not a matter of national importance, not just a matter of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U100	Thank you. We cannot say that important matters are dealt with by the state, but by local authorities, they deal with non-essential matters. Granting early childhood education to a young person is undoubtedly a very important national matter, but the law of the country places this task on the local government. I do not like this approach, where the tasks of local authorities are considered to be something of little importance and central government tasks to be crucial. Everyone deals with important, but on different levels. Access to early childhood education should be 100% available for all children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U101	No further questions, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The fifth inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U102	Next, the sixth question is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Jaak Allik, Urve Palo, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vasiliev, Indrek Saare, Heljo Pikhofi, Karel Rüütli, Sven Mikser, Kalev Kotkas, Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur and Kajar Lemberi on 10 January this year. The question is addressed to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. I'm asking for Jaak Allik's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U103	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr Prime Minister! On 9 September 2010, the Government of the Republic approved the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan for 2010-2014 at its Cabinet meeting. After the elections of the Riigikogu in March 2011, when you took office as Prime Minister of a new government, you assured the Riigikogu that this action plan was also a document taken by your new government. The Action Plan states that in 20 years the population of Ida-Viru County has decreased by 64000 people, as employment problems have been more acute there throughout the period of independence than elsewhere in Estonia. Public health figures in Ida-Virumaa are significantly lower than the average in Estonia, with an average life expectancy of 3.5 years behind the average in the country. Health problems such as drug addiction and HIV are also concentrated in the region. It has been pointed out that the problem of public administration in the region is that many people in public service do not meet the requirements of the service. Ida-Virumaa's problems are a poor reputation, weak public services and a lack of a good living and working environment that does not encourage the region to start working. The increase in crime rates in the region is influenced by social problems in Ida-Virumaa and the unemployment rate half as high as the average in the Republic. Teachers teaching their subject in Estonian at a decent level are scarce in Russian schools and therefore the quality and level of education in these schools suffers. Ida-Viru County is also characterised by a lower confidence in the police than the national average and a distrust of the possibility of a fair trial. The problem is also the lack of civil society organisations, their activity and their sustainability. The district's marketing activities as a tourist area have been incidental. In the operational programme, 57 concrete actions were planned to change and improve the situation. It will soon be a year and a half after the adoption of the Action Plan. On 22 December 2011, the newspaper Postimees published an article entitled "Government rejected the Ida-Viru Action Plan'. This story also quotes members of the coalition's Riigikogu, who also state that there have been no major activities related to the plan. Ultimately, the journalist notes that urgent action is needed to keep the region alive. All kinds of plans and plans regarding Ida-Virumaa have been made by the government before, but life itself shows that there has been much more bleak than wool. As of last week, the percentage of unemployment recorded in Ida-Virumaa was 13.5, which is the largest of Estonia's counties and nearly twice as high as the Estonian average. Over the last week alone, there have been a hundred more unemployed people. A review of the health and well-being of the counties prepared by the Institute for Health Development has just been published, which shows that most of the most negative figures are in Ida-Virumaa. An action plan such as the one that was drawn up before the Riigikogu elections on Ida-Virumaa has not been drawn up by your government for any other county. Thus, the government itself has admitted that the situation in the region is extreme. The Social Democratic Party Group considers the socio-economic situation in Ida-Virumaa to be a significant security risk for Estonia, and we therefore want to know what changes for the better have been achieved by the government in mitigating the social and economic problems of Ida-Virumaa. Which measures planned in the Action Plan have already been implemented and which will be implemented in 2012? How much funds are planned in the 2012 state budget to implement the concrete measures foreseen in the Action Plan? Has the Government of the Republic also set up a verification and reporting mechanism to implement the measures provided for in this Action Plan by the ministries and how does a specific liability system function? What is the result of the government's relocation to Ida-Virumaa? The Coalition Agreement provides for this possibility to be considered. What do you think is the key to the positive integration of the inhabitants of Narva, Kohta-Järve and Sillamäe into the Estonian society, and do you think that their insufficient integration, together with the continued escalation of socio-economic problems in the region, does not represent a major security risk for Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Allik. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'What improvements has the government made in alleviating the social and economic problems of Ida-Viru County? ' If you look at the steps taken by the Government of the Republic in managing the economic crisis and the means used to mitigate the effects, Ida-Virumaa has received more subsidies than average to solve social issues, both from the unemployment fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs funds and the amount of income support. In addition to paying attention to social aspects, the state has supported substantial infrastructure investments both to improve the living environment of the population and to support entrepreneurship. The second question: 'Which measures planned in the Action Plan have already been implemented and which will be implemented in 2012? The implementation plan for the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan 2010/2014 includes mainly the activities that ministries carry out each year. Such activities include support for the activities of regional colleges, regular training of teachers in the Estonian language, continuation of the immersion programme, development of local infrastructure through the use of structural funds, support for cultural events, development of local water management infrastructure, elimination of residual pollution in former industrial and military areas, dealing with the rehabilitation of people with addiction disorders, support for the development of civil society through various support measures, etc. Question 3: 'How much funds are planned in the 2012 state budget to implement concrete measures in the Action Plan? ' In the state budget, the resources of the Ida-Viru County Action Plan are not specifically mentioned. At this point, I mention some of the activities and volumes considered important by the ministries. Education expenditure supports the development of integration with 2.5 million euros, including the application of foreign language students to Estonian society, and 0.32 million euros of Estonian language education for children in other languages in pre-school children's institutions. The construction of the Jõhvi highway Jõhvi road junction will be supported with 4 million euros, as well as support for entrepreneurship, tourism development, business advice and the development of state roads infrastructure. The national programmes launched in the regional area continue: a programme to support the construction of disinflation infrastructures, a local initiative programme, a Peipsivere programme. About €1.7 million per year will be allocated to Ida-Virumaa to support regional development. Within the framework of the urban development measure, EUR 17.4 million has been planned for projects in the cities of Narva and Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi rural municipality until 2013. The planned grants for local public service development projects amount to EUR 13.5 million. The volume of projects approved under the measure to strengthen regional competitiveness is €19.2 million, of which €5.6 million have been paid out; five are visitation environment projects and seven are projects for the development of the business environment. In addition, the Kohtla-Nõmme Mining Park Museum will be completed in 2012 as part of the action to develop cultural and tourist sites of national importance. The Ida-Viru Central Hospital is supported by EUR 4.45 million from the European Regional Development Fund. The reorganisation of the Narva orphanage into family houses is supported by EUR 1.14 million, their maturity is August 2013. Treatment and rehabilitation services for people with addiction disorders are provided for 1.75 million euros. The Bar Association supports Master's studies of young people studying law in Ida-Virumaa with 19200 euros. The Narva Alexander Church is supported by EUR 115400. In addition to the above, in 2011 and 2012, approximately EUR 5 million have been devoted to increasing energy savings in Ida-Viru County, which are based on 17 schools, 20 kindergartens and 23 other public-owned buildings. Question 4: Has a control and reporting mechanism been established within the Government of the Republic to implement the measures provided for in this Action Plan by ministries, and how does a specific liability system function? ' The reporting mechanism has been agreed as follows: Once a year, at the Cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Regional Affairs will provide information on the implementation plan of the Action Plan and on the proposals of the tripartite ministries to amend the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan. For this report, information is collected from branch ministries. Question 5: 'What is the result of the government's relocation to Ida-Virumaa of the Academy of Internal Defence, which option does the coalition agreement provide for? ' The Ministry of the Interior is considering different ways of developing the Academy of Home Affairs to create the best possible learning conditions for future police officers, rescuers and other internal defence officers. Among other things, this also means choosing the best possible future location for teaching, which the Ministry of the Interior intends to present to the government office during the first quarter. Question 6: 'What do you think is the key to the positive integration of the inhabitants of Narva, Kohtla-Järve and Sillamäe into the Estonian society and whether their insufficient integration, together with the continued escalation of socio-economic problems in the region, does not, in your opinion, represent an important security risk for Estonia? ' I consider it important to continue to invest in Ida-Viru County, which I also pointed out in my previous responses. For example, developing local infrastructure using structural funds, supporting the development of civil society through various support measures, as well as increasing energy savings in 17 schools in Ida-Virumaa, 20 kindergartens and 23 other public service buildings through the sale of emission allowances. As regards the socio-economic problems you mentioned, the Ministry of Justice's statistics show that the total number of crimes in Ida-Virumaa last year decreased compared to 2009 and 2010. In 2009, 6449 crimes were committed, in 2010 7045 crimes were committed, in 2011 6346 crimes were committed. According to Statistics Estonia, the number of unemployed persons registered in Ida-Virumaa is also decreasing. The number of registered unemployed had been 15129 in 2009 and 12526 in 2010, while the number of registered unemployed had already fallen to 10305 in 2011. I consider it important to pursue an economic policy aimed at increasing the standard of living for the people of Ida-Viru County. However, I do not agree that Ida-Viru County poses a security risk to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U106	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have questions. Let's start with Evgeny Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U107	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we know, there is a point in both the coalition agreement and the government's action programme that talks about EAS subsidies for industrial projects in Ida-Virumaa. Its implementation is known to have been put into the second quarter of 2012. Last June, I asked if it could not be brought forward. Then you said everything in good time. Now it's coming to 'your time'. How far away are the preparations in the Ministry of Economic Affairs for this point to enter into force on time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U108	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U109	Let's say for the third time, everything in its own time. I expect that, if the proposed measures are implemented in the second and third quarters of 2012, this will be the case. If you had asked me before, I would have prepared an answer then, but I have not asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and EAS for further information on this subject for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U110	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The action plan allows the coordination of cooperation between the University of Tartu and the universities of health care and the Ida-Viru County Government and health care institutions in recruiting health workers in Ida-Viru County and the establishment by 2011 of a system of additional coefficients to motivate the remuneration of health care workers in Ida-Viru. Is it done, and if so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U111	Yeah, something's been done. The motivation system, not only in relation to Ida-Virumaa, has been implemented to take up the job of young teachers at all. For doctors to take up their duties, it is being implemented. What is the state of any specific measure now, I find it difficult to respond again at the moment. Another time, ask me sooner!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U112	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Austet Prime Minister! The Ida-Virumaa Action Plan provides for an additional premium to be granted to the state officials there as well as to enable them to be settled elsewhere in Estonia from 2011. Do you have an overview of how many officials have already been granted such a commendable benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U114	There are not many areas where it has already been possible to pay extra costs to people working in Ida-Virumaa. For example, prosecutors. If the prosecutor goes from Tallinn to work in Ida-Virumaa, he will be paid a premium with a certain coefficient. Everything depends on the supply-demand ratio in different areas of life. Where there is no offer, but the demand is high, there will be extra charges to be paid. Where the ratio between demand and supply is balanced or the supply exceeds demand, there is again a particular need to pay taxpayers' money for surcharges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U115	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! We have also asked questions about the Ida-Virumaa programme to other ministers in different areas, and all of them have said that from 2013 the budget should be drawn up as if there were a separate budget line for this programme. Hence the question: is there such a line in the budget for the coming year? It's on the one hand. On the other hand, perhaps it would be useful to make such a fully objective interim report? Not only information, as you spoke with regard to the Minister for Regional Affairs, but a proper objective interim report. Perhaps we could analyze what we have succeeded and what still has not done and what new problems are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U117	We have not prepared this action programme for Ida-Virumaa on the assumption that the funding of the programme will be a separate line in the ministries' budgets. It is a political document that sets objectives in different areas of life, and a great many activities must be subject to these objectives. And I cannot promise from this speaking board that now we will change our principles and start financing, as separate budget lines, the activities designed and planned for the development of Ida-Viru County. They will still be funded by different ministries. At the same time, membership of certain activities must mark the priority of these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U118	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The action plan is planned to introduce a very good measure as early as 2011, such as a system of scholarships, which will enable successful students to continue their studies in Estonian public schools. My question is: if it already works, how many students can use this measure? How much is that scholarship money? How much could it be? Maybe now you're saying that this could have been asked earlier, but I'm still risking asking you that question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U120	Yes, you've already known my answer. The Prime Minister isn't going to be able to present any random figures from this speaker, which he seems to remember or what he thinks is right. If you want to get the correct answer, you have to ask the question in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U121	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Like other regions, road infrastructure certainly plays an important role in the Ida-Viru Action Plan. In good order and modern roads, the message is that it is possible to invest successfully in a certain area, i.e. to do business, and people's mobility is also better to deliver every day. As we know, the road in Jõhvi is already exceeding the requirements of the first class, with traffic intensity exceeding 6,000 cars per day. Can you tell us the position of the Government of the Republic on the reconstruction of the Jõhvi-Narva road in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U123	The good questioner himself knows that the very same Jõhvi-Narva road or, more generally, the Tallinna-Narva road has clearly been a priority for the government, and the biggest individual investments that have so far been made in the construction of Estonian roads relate precisely to this road. I guess he's a priority. If you look at the traffic flows from Tallinn, we can see that traffic is the most intense on the first 18 km Narva highway leaving Tallinn. Cars travel there almost 29,000 a day. More than 28000 cars are also located on the first 20 km of the Pärnu highway. The Tartu highway is well below these two highways, with a traffic frequency of 14500 cars per day on the road from Tallinn. It is by traffic load that the priority of roads is also largely defined.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U124	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U125	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The Ida-Virumaa Action Plan allows systematic rotation of police and prosecutors and judicial officials in the region and other pro-active measures to ensure that qualified legal service providers with a national language in Ida-Virumaa are sufficient. Do you know what has been done in this area and with what results?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U126	Thank you. There's rotation in all these areas. But it's already a question of assessing how systematic this rotation is. Based on the information I'm aware of, I assume this is a fairly systemic approach at the DA's office. A rotation in the public service should, in general, be self-evident and closed down; staying in certain occupations for too long may not always be a good thing. Both in the police system and in the prosecutor's office, as well as among the judiciary, there is an all-Estonian rotation, but the assessment of this system is already a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U127	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U128	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Of course, it is positive that the Government has adopted the Ida-Viru Action Plan and hopefully it will produce positive results in the near future. I'm sure we'd like to see it all a lot faster. However, I would also mention that the Action Plan allows for this year's strategically thought-out planning of technical infrastructure to be drawn up in a balanced and forward-looking manner for the interests of Ida-Viru County and the state, as well as the allocation of additional funds from the state budget. Can you tell me how far this plan is? And are there any specific additional amounts in this regard in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U129	I should like to ask a more specific question, which is what you meant by planning a technical infrastructure. If we're talking about road construction, yes, the sums have been allocated. When it comes to building broadband connections, yes, the sums have been allocated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U130	Again, Mr Jaan Apple Tree! Just a short question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U131	I mean, by this technical infrastructure plan, the concrete action plan foreseen by the action plan approved by the government. Does it exist or does it not exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U132	In itself, we have an Ida-Virumaa action plan. I don't think it makes any sense to have an action plan under which something is to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U133	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U134	Prime Minister! I appeal to you as Chairman of the Coalition Council. We know that not all coalition voting decisions will be taken in this Chamber, but will be made by the Coalition Council. You can understand that in order to implement many of the measures set out in the Action Plan, the state has no money in terms of the priorities of the government coalition, but I have been astonished by the opposition of the coalition to even the smallest gestures of goodwill towards our fellow citizens and taxpayers, who are not Estonian citizens and many of whom live in Ida-Viru County. Let us recall the proposal to pay 130 euros a year to Chernobyl veterans, to allow a person living in Estonia on the basis of a permanent residence permit to acquire a 0.2 ha gardening plot in the border zone, to give Estonian citizenship to children born here whose parents do not have citizenship and who have not expressed the opposite wish. As we know, there are more than 200,000 of these countrymen in Estonia and, of course, they do not go anywhere, only become bitter and alienated from the Estonian state, recognizing this attitude to themselves. To what are such a consistent, malicious policy explainable, and what goals does it pursue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U135	Now, that's what I think you're asking yourself right now, because who could have such a bitter attitude more than you do? For your information, this coalition does not have a coalition council, and I am not the chairman of the coalition council. But for that, it wasn't the substance of the question. From time to time, I feel like I'm some kind of enemy of Ida-Virumaa. We would be that we decided in the government to draw up an Ida-Virumaa action plan, like something bad did. On the contrary, I understand that with this action plan we are planning very specific objectives in order to alleviate or solve the problems that have arisen long before this government, or also the earlier governments of the Republic of Estonia, took up their activities. The problems of Ida-Virumaa are not caused by the governments of the Republic of Estonia. These are the consequences of the national political decisions of the Soviet power. They are the result of decisions that prohibited Estonians expelled from Narva during the war to return to the city of Narva. They are the result of the Soviet division of labour, which made some factories sub-supply only to one plant located far away in Vladivostok or the Urals. We have been fighting the consequences of the Soviet Union's national policy for 20 years, and I think we have made progress. I think it is inappropriate to refer to the Government of the Republic now as a source of problems. I think that a member of the Riigikogu would notice the progress of the current Riigikogu and the compositions of the government in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U136	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U137	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! The question will be about the possible location of the National Defence Academy. Before you answered my benchmate here, you said everything in good time. The government's action plan states that in the second quarter of 2011, it is necessary to decide where the National Defence Academy will be established. But it is now over both this quarter and the year number. So when is the right time to make that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U138	I believe that, during this year, we are ready to make this decision, but this is not an easy decision. For regional policy reasons, it would be relatively easy to decide that this school should be located in Ida-Virumaa. But at the same time we are interested that the level of teaching at this school would be the best possible. We therefore need to find a compromise between regional policy objectives and the achievement of law enforcement objectives. We will consider all the arguments very carefully, and we will probably make a decision then too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U139	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U140	Thank you. Let's continue with the questions about that in good time. After all, the action plan, which has been very much talked about here today, is good in the sense that at least there is a plan. That is why these questions are upstairs because there are relatively specific deadlines for many things. I'm going to ask you about the local governments. By 2012, i.e. this year, the plan was to change the financing arrangements for municipalities with a view to reducing the dependence of the local authorities' revenue base on resource charges. Have you discussed this? What would this new order look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U141	We have discussed this and these discussions have also moved to this Chamber of the Riigikogu. However, there is no consensus on resource charges between local authorities, including the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. Some local authorities do not wish to be dependent on resource charges to date; others want an even greater share of resource charges to be received by local authorities. It is not possible to present any very clear, unanimous changes at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U142	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I don't want to ask you about this question, I have a question. Do you not plan to visit the local governments of Ida-Viru County and meet with their leaders in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U144	I go once or twice a year somewhere in Ida-Virumaa, if not more. Last year I remember going to Jõhvi, I went to Narva twice. During these visits, I have usually met local government leaders, such as the mayor of Narva. There have been meetings in towns and rural municipalities in Ida-Virumaa. I can assure you, I even know waiters at the Jõhvi Private pub.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U145	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U146	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I don't think you're the enemy of the Ida-Viru County action plan. I think a plan is necessary. But looking at the implementation of this plan, it appears that most of what was planned there has not been done and has not even started. Maybe it's the plan supervisor, the supervisor, the regional minister. When you answered one previous question of inquiry, you said that you referred to the Minister of the Population, without a portfolio, then there is no point. Maybe there's no point in a minister without a portfolio? It seems that way when analysing the Ida-Virumaa action plan and its implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U147	I don't share your feelings. But obviously we're very different people and assume that I should share your feelings would be redundant. We have this review planned in accordance with the procedure, as I have already said in my reply, that this will certainly happen once a year. At this point in time, to assess how the action plan has been completed or, more importantly, to assess the evaluators of the action plan would be very premature. It wouldn't be appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U148	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to invite my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, to the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a great pleasure to see that the Prime Minister finally got a little excited. Perhaps this shows that the problems of Ida-Viru County are still at his heart. My colleagues and I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister about the socio-economic situation in Ida-Virumaa. Of course, he has not denied the problems there, nor has he done so today. Maybe he doesn't consider these problems to be just a very serious one, okay, it's also a social nerve issue. It is not, of course, that someone blames the Prime Minister for creating a difficult socio-economic situation in Ida-Virumaa. The point is that it should be the responsibility of the government to resolve the problems, and that is why we are asking questions. It is said that Eastern virtuosa do not speak Estonian or live in a hostile information room, that they do not have the necessary skills, or that the corruption of local governments is an obstacle why the economic and social problems in the region do not want to solve in any way. We could agree to that, but the question is: what should we do in this situation? Now, as a result of the work of the broad Commission, a concrete plan has been adopted, with specific points for solving specific problems. Unfortunately, as we have seen today, the government has virtually not started to implement it at all, although half the period of the action programme will soon be over. The transfer of the National Defence Academy is still under consideration, although the decision had to be made nearly a year ago. In terms of EAS investments, the Prime Minister was unable to enlighten us today, but we hope that this will not be the case with the transfer of the Academy of Home Affairs. At the same time, the flood of bad news continues from Ida-Virumaa. Only recently, news came out that most of the quality of life and health indicators are the worst in Estonia in Ida-Virumaa. I would also like to talk once again about unemployment. In June, I asked the Prime Minister here about extremely high unemployment in Ida-Virumaa and especially in the city of Narva. The Prime Minister replied, as usual, that when the economy grows, jobs will come. This is basically right, but the problem is that new jobs will not come to Ida-Virumaa. I took out statistics that reflect the development of unemployment over the last year. In December 2010, there were 65000 registered unemployed people throughout Estonia, and 12526 of them, or 19% of all registered Estonian unemployed, lived in Ida-Viru County. In December 2011, there were 47400 unemployed in all of Estonia, 10300 of them in Ida-Virumaa, or 22% of the Estonian unemployed. Of course, it can be concluded that unemployment in Ida-Virumaa has decreased by 18% in a year, but since unemployment in Estonia at the same time decreased by 27% or almost half more, it means that Ida-Virumaa has more and more forced the role of Estonian orphans every month than in 2010 19% of registered unemployed people lived in Ida-Virumaa, then in 2011, this figure was 22% later. While some of the problems in Ida-Virumaa are the same as in other areas of Estonia, such as small municipalities, Ida-Viru's large industrial cities are unique in all respects and therefore require separate solutions. The Ida-Viru action plan is not some magic cure that solves all the problems, but filling it would be the first step on the long road. However, we believe that the continued failure to comply with it in substance is irresponsible of the government and unacceptable to the social democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U150	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U151	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodichi, Vladimir Velman, Inara Luigas, Lauri Laas, Eldar Efendijev, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Samson, Aivar Riisalu and Rainer Vakra, on 9 January of this year, concerning the security of supply of the Estonian electricity system (No 88). Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U152	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 January, the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to our Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. This question concerns the security of supply of the electricity system. We all remember that, at the end of the year, during Christmas and before the New Year, Estonia suffered severe winter storms. As a result, according to various data, there were about 175,000 households without electricity. We know that the state of the Estonian electricity networks has been assessed at European level at a technically medium level. We also know that in the last five or almost ten years, Eesti Energia has boosted the allocation of money, investments in our electricity networks, both the core network and the distribution network. These amounts have been very high at the time of the kroon there were billions involved, and now we can talk about hundreds of millions of euros. However, as far as I can remember, Eisma has not been in our village by the sea in the last thirty years as much as it has been in the last five years. That goes for the whole area. During the storm that was now, I moved around the Virumaa and looked at the situation. The situation was sad at times, sometimes unsatisfied. The five questions we put to the Minister reflect the moments we want to draw attention to. Indeed, when it comes to very large amounts of money, large investments, they must always be very well founded. This is because, in fact, these investments are being made by a monopoly, and the choices that are being made must be correct. What's the right choice? This means that good quality must be obtained at a 'good price'. Of course, the maximum is never possible, but we need to move in that direction. If a large investment is made, it really must be optimal. As I said, Estonia's electricity grids are technically medium-sized. However, when we talk about the flows that pass through our electricity grids, they are on average three times smaller than in Europe. I have discussed this issue with the Minister several times and pointed it out and criticised the fact that Eesti Energia does not make the most rational decisions about networks. Money is spent where it is practically never paid and does not provide quality. For example, in our village, millions of dollars have been wired down, but the medium-voltage grid is still unfinished. And as the storm is, all coastal villages are without light. I drove from Eisma to Haljala, and the whole area was absolutely dark for two days. I remember nothing from the Soviet era, nor from the first ten years of Estonian independence, that we would have been without power for two or three days. But I didn't come here to talk about Eisma village. There are, in fact, many examples that have been wronged and that things have not been properly resolved organisationally. I have drawn attention to these moments in my articles and I think that the Ministry and Eesti Energia should take them seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U153	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U154	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: "How do you assess a situation where people in the 21st century often have to be powerless for days or even weeks? " The answer is, of course, that such a situation cannot be considered satisfactory and must be worked to ensure a more secure supply of electricity. Before talking about solutions, we may need to talk about the reasons for the numerous blackouts during the storms. The cyclone Patrick, who arrived in Estonia on 26 December, left nearly 200,000 households powerless, making it the biggest storm in the last decade. The main problem is not so much the age and state of the electricity grid, but that 35% of Estonian overhead lines pass through forests and strong wind breaks trees outside the line corridor. It follows that such failures cannot be prevented by managing the current network and line corridors differently. In the long run, the solution is the earth's cable and the air cable much stronger than the normal overhead line, which is not easily broken when the branches of the trees break. Investments must therefore be channelled into these solutions. As far as investments in the distribution network are concerned, I reiterate the fact that all the money paid by consumers as network charges is currently spent on maintenance and development of networks. There are no dividends taken from the distribution network. The current network charges allow for an annual renewal of approximately 1000 kilometres, most of which are land cable. By 2025, about 75% of the routes will be underground and the network will be more weather-proof than it is now. The second question: 'How do I assess the new technical solutions and the order in which they are implemented for both low-voltage and medium-voltage lines? ' In order to ensure the maximum impact of the use of limited resources, investment decisions concerning the distribution network, contrary to what you claim, Mr Kaljuvee, are based on a very thorough analysis. The investments are primarily directed towards routes where the reliability of the network can be improved by the largest number of customers at the same time. In making investment decisions, the distribution network shall be guided by the principles of network management developed. They provide, for example, that the overhead line is not installed in the forest area, but that a land cable is built, and that the ground cable is always used to upgrade the lines between the two substations. In 2011, 95% of the routes were built as land cable and 5% as air cable at medium voltage, 66% as land cable at low voltage and 34% as air cable. It should also be taken into account that the ten-year investment break that began at the beginning of the Estonian period of independence cannot be made back in a few years. As the medium-voltage lines affecting a larger number of customers have already been significantly upgraded in recent years, more investment will be directed towards low-voltage in this year and in the coming years. This means better quality electricity supply for the rural population. Remotely readable meters that reach all consumption sites by the beginning of 2017 will also improve the speed of liquidation. If, at present, the distribution network becomes aware of low voltage failures only through calls from customers, remotely readable meters automatically transmit fault information. The third question: 'In the second half of the last decade, it is likely that the internal system of management of the networks was changed, with the abolition of the regional administrative and management centres. Was it the right decision? Today, we can see that the current administrative system does not justify itself. How are we going to improve the system of network management and maintenance in the coming years? " If failures are resolved faster than in the past, it is difficult to accept the conclusion that the current administrative system has not justified itself in comparison with the previous one. The smaller local control centres were justified under the conditions of the technology at the time, including the means of communication at the time. The dispatcher currently runs the network through IT solutions. The work is carried out through the network information system, mobile communication and GPS devices, which reduce dependence on the location of control centres and increase efficiency. If in the past the brigade took a printed map to find a faulty location, then the electricians are now assisted by GPS devices to find a faulty location. With modern equipment, the dispatcher no longer drives the electricity network with more and more complex power, the operation is carried out by means of a scheme and an information system that is concentrated in the centres. Regardless of the two control centres, these are in Tartu and there are still 16 separate control areas in Tallinn. The control area shall comprise a territory of 50 kilometres in diameter with an optimal number of MMIs operated by dispatchers and leading specialists in a given area. Physically, specialists in different regions are located in two centres, but each specializes in its own management area. If necessary, other dispatchers can be involved in the management of one region. It also worked well to repair the damage to the Christmas storms. In the last few days, when four more areas had been affected, three dispatchers were operating in one area at a time instead of one, thus achieving a significant effect at the speed. Question 4: 'In Denmark, for example, small households are supplied with generators in the case of settlements. Does it make sense to move miles of land cable to households where electricity consumption is already extremely low, or should such households be equipped with generators? ' In the case of residential households, the supply of generators to small households depends both on the distance of the individual consumer from the electricity grid and on the nature of the consumption. In the case of constant electricity consumption, i.e. if it is not a cottage, the continent will always have an electrical connection a few kilometres away. In the case of Estonia's smaller islands, automatic electricity production has already been implemented up to Ruhnu and Pranglini in the larger islands. In order to ensure continuous or round-the-clock electrical power by means of a generator, a normal unit is not suitable and compared to the feasibility of establishing a power line with the feasibility of obtaining its own generator, the cost calculation must take into account the fuel needed for the generator, its transport and the continuous maintenance of the generators. When analysing all these aspects, it is possible to assess whether such a solution is more reasonable than the establishment of a power line. A cost-benefit analysis is already being carried out for the construction of each power line and a more efficient technical solution is being sought in each case. It is certainly not more cost-effective to cut down and replace existing shocked power lines with electricity generators. Question 5: 'Estonian Energia buys a large part of the emergency reforms and maintenance of power lines from outside as a service, which brings people who are good specialists, but they do not know the specific circumstances. Has this practice justified itself, where electricians often come to eliminate blackouts without line experience and with their own tools? ' Electrical network works shall only include outdoor electricity which has received the necessary training. Training and training for the distribution system itself as well as for the partners' brigades shall be organised at the distribution system control centre. The provision of network services shall be effective and the network tariff shall be reasonable. The regulation provides that the system operator must continuously carry out its efficiency tasks in the different sections of its activities. This also means that the distribution network can keep as many brigades as it has to work every day. There are currently 30 operational brigades in the Eesti Energia Distribution Network. In the remaining cases, the distribution network shall implement the involvement of contractual partners depending on the number of power cuts or the extent of the emergency. In total, the distribution network has failed contracts with nearly 70 companies and with its own brigades, i.e. about 200 brigades can be put out. Contracts with framework partners shall ensure the obligation to be in a faulty position no later than two hours after notification, 24 hours a day. The disruptors, however, are predominantly local, but the distribution network involves the brigades from other counties to help in the event of storms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U155	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the questions. First of all, Mr Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U156	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! This issue of transmission lines is an eternal issue, but in my opinion, one major problem in the case of Eesti Energia is the poor movement of information. When a new IT system was implemented, electricity could not be taken from consumers for several months. During the last storms, the main problem was that the information did not really move at all. Some people reported malfunctions with messages, and that messaging industry didn't work. I have a concrete example of myself. I sent four messages, and I finally called, and then the men were there in an hour. As a minister, has Eesti Energia somehow tried to explain why they are unable to implement their IT solutions normally? That would probably make their lives a lot easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U157	I'd avoid generalising that they can't. However, as regards the last storm and very large-scale blackout, we must agree that communication should have been much better. Without going into detail, I would say to you, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, that I really invite interested parties to make even a half-day visit to the distribution network. You will then have a completely different understanding of why and how investments are made or how this entire distribution system is structured across the country. In that case, many of these misconceptions would be eliminated. In my opinion, insufficient communication with local communities, and perhaps with local authorities, is the weakest place in this crisis. Their daily communication with local authorities and other such institutions is quite well established; they have quite adequate cooperation protocols. But in a crisis, if a person wants to get constant information, he won't be satisfied if he's told that yes-yes, we'll be there in a day or two. He wants to call all the time. Obviously, the faulty phone, the main purpose of which is to fix faults, automatically responds, but it does not provide any comforting information, what is done exactly, when is reached a particular house. It should certainly be better to provide such feedback specifically for each client or region. We've reviewed all these plans with the distribution system managers. They can certainly be significantly improved to make feedback more adequate for customers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U158	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U159	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we know, last year Eesti Energia brought together a large number of workers who were working on the routes. These services were transferred to private companies. You don't think, Mr. Minister, that maybe it's too much for private companies to provide services? For example, in road maintenance, a state-owned company was already formed and it turns out that it provides better care for public roads than is done by the departments given to private companies. Maybe you should change your mind about that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U160	Thank you. What's the logic? Logic is that the Eesti Energia Distribution Network would probably take us all 24 hours a day for 365 days to wait for malfunctions to occur. According to Estonian law, the Estonian Competition Authority must require the most effective organisation of work in the performance of each function and sub-function. The most effective work organisation in the Eesti Energia Distribution Network can be that on the basis of permanent contracts, as many fault elimination brigades as there is to provide them with continuous work. Currently, the Estonian Energy Distribution Network employs 30 operational brigades across Estonia. In the event of all extraordinary events, the contractual partners who, as I have already said, will have to work within two hours. In total, the distribution network has 105 crews of 63 contract partners and various electrical works companies, in addition to the operational brigades. In total, 198 brigades are actually in the two-hour response range. This is primarily a question of cost effectiveness. If we change the law, if you wanted to do it, it would mean an increase in the net tariff. We can hire more brigades, but if they don't have a job, we're just paying money pointlessly, and that's why the price of our electricity would be higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U161	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U162	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister! It was very nice to hear you say that there is a dispatcher, rooms and lamps, and people and red lights are gonna light up and go out, and the GPS are gonna run around. But the real picture, not in one place, but in many places during the storm, was that the electricians of the partners' internal works drove around with the Peugeot two or three, didn't know about the particular line, neither the night nor the hat, so to speak. They'd never been on that line, and they wouldn't have been able to access that line with that car. The forest was dark and muddy, then the GPS won't help. In fact, I wanted to point out that work with subcontractors and contract partners is weak on Eesti Energia. Are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U163	Well, how can I answer no to such a question?! But I'm always thrilled to hear your description of how any line should be managed. I don't know who's gonna give you this information. I'm just reminding you what we're talking about. We're talking about lines that are 60573 kilometers in total. 60573 kilometers! Even in the case of a country like Estonia, it can be said that this is a pretty big system, the driving of which is not possible so that I know the local Volli, who wears rubbers, takes the pliers and goes to repair the electrical failure. That's not possible. It was a different age, a horse age, when there really were some lines, and everyone knew exactly where a line was going. That's not possible anymore. Consequently, different systems must be implemented. I dare say that, by looking at the activities of the distribution network and judging by the independent regulator's estimates, this has been organised quite effectively. I agree with the criticism made by Mr Riisalu. However, expect us to be able to put a particular person on each line who knows exactly what weather you can travel through there - this is a relatively interesting theme approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U164	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U165	Thank you. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, You've pretty much read all the kilometres that are under the power grids, but my question comes from the common consumer. At the moment, the ordinary person comes home with an electricity bill stating a separate network charge and the price of electricity. These figures have shown that network charges are increasing, but the security of electricity supply has not increased so quickly. Can you tell me if there is still an increase in network charges? We know that next year we will face an increase in electricity prices. Have network charges achieved their excellence today, or will they continue to grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U166	As far as your question is concerned, it is relatively evil. You could be more amenable. That network charges are always going to increase? I am very sorry, I do not have a specific bill with me now, and I may be wrong, but I dare say that network charges, when compared to the consumer price index, have not increased significantly over the last eight years. Indeed, now the latest decisions taken by the Competition Authority on the distribution network, as well as on the transmission network, will allow an increase in network charges of 5 to 6%. As of now, these prices have been set for three years. If there is no change in any of the input components, there is no reason for network companies to request any additional price increase. In my opinion, the main deficit that has arisen in the 1990s, when very little investment was made for ten years, should be covered by this pace of investment. The aim is that the investment component in the network charge tariff should not increase once again if we again compare the so-called real prices if we do not pay attention to inflation. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U167	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U168	Thank you. Good minister! Here's the question. Looking back, five years ago, network emergency management was region-based. Then all of this was centralised and today it can be said that administrative costs represent 36% of the price charged to the final consumer. Did you think the act that was done five years ago was right or not? How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U169	I hope that we are talking about the same thing, that we are talking about the Estonian distribution network. In parentheses, I say, just in case, that there are 36 distribution companies in Estonia, one of them is the Eesti Energia Distribution Network, which is by far the largest of its network's regular kilometres. If we compare this distribution company with some other European companies, which are more or less similar, given the number of line miles per capita and the electrical capacity used, there are actually two centres of command. We have one control centre in Tartu and the other in Tallinn, where the work is organised by region, etc. Given today's technical means, the means of communication, that virtually every line, except the line referred to by the Rocky Water, is actually far from visible and can also be controlled by New Zealand, on the other hand from the globe, in fact, there could be fewer control centres in this sense. But the current position of the company is that having two centres is safe in the sense that all-Estonian management is guaranteed even if one centre falls out of line for some technical reason or if there is no necessary communication. So one of the centers is making a security copy of the other center. It is possible to manage all of Estonia from Tartu and Tallinn from all of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U170	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U171	I'll take eight minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U172	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U173	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen. I still speak when speaking about Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia is the flagship of the Estonian economy. Eesti Energia is an international company that relatively successfully transfers its know-how to other countries, especially oil shale chemistry. Eesti Energia is a company which, as the only Estonian company, could also be considered to be large and successful internationally. There is no point in banging Eesti Energia to the end of the earth because there are forces of majesty outside and tens and hundreds and thousands of families are left without electricity because tens of thousands of trees have broken down and some of them have fallen on the lines. Eesti Energia is not responsible for natural circumstances. We need to be quite understanding about all of this. Eesti Energia is responsible for having insulted me four times to the bottom of my soul in the last five years. As a citizen of the state and as a taxpayer, I have been extremely sad because I do not understand how the company, whom I respect very much, who I still consider to be the flagship of the Estonian economy, treats me like this. Then I'm alone in my worries and I don't understand why he's doing this to me. Once again, I don't know how many times already, I would recall those times when Eesti Energia has literally hit me in the mud to my nostrils. He has never wanted to realize that I respect and love him, that I want to pay him for the electricity, even if it seems to me that the price is too high. The first time Eesti Energia insulted me when I bought a power substation with a million kroons, of which I had to pay half a million immediately. I waited nine months, then Eesti Energia came, took a million kroons from me on the other side, set up a substation, wrote this substation on his balance sheet and started selling electricity to me with the usual amount. I felt really bad because I asked us to make sure that I paid once, so suddenly I could apply for some kind of development aid, it was a regional company. That's what Eesti Energia told me that you're asking us to fake, man, and that's not what we're doing. We're an honest company. That's when I felt dishonest. But I keep talking about this case whenever I have the chance. The other time, I felt bad when, as another understanding person, I had waited a day and a half to get the broken trees off the lines. The cooperation partner of Eesti Energia arrived and stood sadly at the edge of the field, looked at the deep snow and said that no, we will not be able to get there. Indeed, Ford did not get on the Transit bus! Then the naughty farmer went home, started the tractor, took the contract partners of Eesti Energia to the line, which the contractor said to listen, but you also have a lift on the tractor, help us work here a little bit so that we can get the wires up nicely. I did! From 2:00 a.m. until 7:00 a.m., I worked with the contract partners of Eesti Energia and helped them back on the way. When I got home with the tractor, Eesti Energia's good cooperation partner had already turned the electricity on, I had a garage full of fire because the sucker had forgotten to remove his generator from the grid before he went to help Eesti Energia. There was no one to dig. I was beaten out of that office with my foot shots when I tried to describe what happened to them. On the third occasion, Eesti Energia, whom I love very much, insulted me when she implemented an IT system worth 9 million euros so that I could give them an electric reading so that they could take my money away from me in time. It didn't work in the first month, I got forecast bills, it didn't work in the second month, I got forecast bills, it worked in the third month. I gave up my electric readings honestly and it turned out that I had paid Eesti Energia an entire month and a half in advance of the electric money. When I tried to make it clear to them that if I'm late for paying the bill two days in the current month, you're sending me late payments, but if I've paid you a month and a half in advance, you don't want to count a little interest. Eesti Energia beat me out of the door with kicks and I felt very, very sad again, because somehow it seemed that football was being played with one goal. For the fourth time, Eesti Energia insulted me during those very last Christmas, when there was a big, big storm. That's why I, as a vigilante, have to stand up for my family. There was only one phase in our village of all houses except mine. I'm the one with the generator. When the villagers had sent four SMS messages to Eesti Energia and when I had dared to call Eesti Energia's faulty phone on the fifth day, it turned out that the four SMS messages had not been fixed there. Then they were wondering, "Oh, you've got a glitch?! Well, that's great, so how did it break? An hour later, the power line repair brigade was there, who said: oh, you've broken the high-voltage line here, the dispatcher told us it was a low-voltage line. I then helped the cooperation partners of Eesti Energia to repair the line. The electric mail had been burned out in two thirds because of a fallen electrical line. That mail is there until today. Yesterday, Eesti Energia sent me a re-mail: "Wouldn't you like to tell us in some way how you're doing as an electricity consumer? We'd like to improve our work. ' Forgive me, if the company has offended me four times in five years, I will not write to them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U174	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. I would now like to ask my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to speak on the floor. I hope you come with more positive messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U175	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good ministers! There's not gonna be a fifth or sixth or seventh personal, sad, serious example. I do not want this really very serious and important issue to remain in the air in a light jest. The issue of electricity supply is extremely important to the state and to every person. It is an economic issue, it is a security issue, it is a matter of life. We have indeed increased the cost of electricity grids in recent years, and it will also feel the monthly electricity charge if we pay for every kilowatt. I have been talking about this remote control that the consumer price of electricity consists of three parts. The first part is either the market price of electricity in the following year or the agreed price, the second is the network charge and the third is the national tax. Today we are talking about this second part, which is on average one third of the consumer price of electricity in Europe, but in Estonia it is already over one third. In Estonia, 36% or 37% of the consumer price is charged for networks, and in recent times this price component has grown most rapidly. But has quality improved? No, it's not. Quality has not improved, although Eesti Energia knows that breaks are shorter. But the examples that these aren't shorter are a lot. I do not remember that in 30 years, during the Soviet period and during the first ten years of Estonia's independence, the county centres would have been without power. Not for a few hours, but like Valga, almost 24 hours without electricity. We have serious concerns, serious technical and economic claims for Eesti Energia. They should spend the money they spend on renovating, upgrading, upgrading electricity networks in a very responsible manner. We have examples of this not being done, and there are quite a few examples. I have also advised the Minister once that you should leave Pärnu, Audru. Networks have been built, which we all pay for here in Estonia, but no one uses these networks. This is another example that we in Eesti Energia are not doing as well as we need to do with the networks, their investments, maintenance of the networks and, if necessary, emergency repairs. This is what we wanted to put the Minister's heart to inquiring, so that the Ministry and Eesti Energia would take a much more serious view of electricity networks than they have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U176	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U177	The next question is the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vasiliev, Aadu Musta and Kalev Kallo on 11 January of this year to the Estonian Forest Friends (No 90). Mr Tarmo Tamme to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U178	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honourable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 January, the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice. The State Forest Management Centre is a profit-making state institution operating in the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment. The Supervisory Board of RMK has nine members and the composition of the Supervisory Board is approved by the Government of the Republic by its order for three years. Consequently, the Government of the Republic is directly involved in the activities of the State Forest Management Centre and must have an overview of the practical activities of RMK in both legal and moral terms. This year the 5th of January Eesti Päevaleht writes: 'The manager of RMK transferred tens of thousands of euros to his NGO. ' Eesti Päevaleht has drawn up two contracts, on the basis of which Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, who is a member of MTÜ Metsaõbrad, has now transferred a total of 46000 euros of state money to this NGO while in his position. In addition to the Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, all NGO Forest Friends are members of the Management Board and founding members of RMK's senior officials. The Anti-Corruption Act in force in the Republic of Estonia contains prohibited transactions for officials. It shall be prohibited for an official to carry out transactions with himself or to carry out other transactions of that nature or in relation to a conflict of interest. The law states that it is prohibited to engage in proprietary transactions in the position of a representative of the state with a non-profit organisation the member of which is himself. Officials are trying to hide the whole problem behind the word that RMK is a commercial institution. There are four questions for the Minister. Maybe the minister will read them himself and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U179	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Please, Minister of Justice, to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U180	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, thank you for the questions that have been asked. I would like to say at the outset that I agree with the respondents that, in the performance of a public task, transactions with themselves or with a natural or legal person related to themselves are, in principle, highly ethically questionable, because there is a very high risk of corruption. However, by giving a concrete assessment of a specific act, it is necessary to rely on the law and, in accordance with that law, I will also answer the questions that have been put to me. I will try to make this brief and focused. The first question: 'Do you think there is an exhaustive explanation if the Head of RMK considers that the anti-corruption law does not extend to the State Income Insurance Institution, which RMK is for managers and employees? " In answering this question, I would distinguish two aspects. First of all, is RMK's position correct? I must admit that, in accordance with the law in force, this position is true. If we look at the provisions of § 24 of the Anti-Corruption Act (hereinafter referred to as the KVS in short), then indeed, an official is prohibited from conducting transactions with himself or other transactions of a similar nature or in relation to conflicts of interest. Nor may he authorise his subordinates to carry out such transactions in his place. Transactions with themselves which are prohibited shall be regarded, inter alia, as a representative of the State or local government in respect of the activities of a non-profit organisation or party of which it is a member. In addition, § 25 states that a conflict of interest exists where an official has to take a decision or participate in a decision within the framework of his duties or duties which has a material impact on the economic interests of his own, his close relatives or his family or legal persons, where the legal person is a legal person governed by private law, the head of which or a member of the supervisory body of which is an official or a close relative or a member of his family. These prohibitions apply to an official. The concept of an official also opens up § 4 of the Anti-Corruption Act. First of all, the official is a civil servant. In turn, the concept of an official is open to the Public Service Act, which, pursuant to § 6, includes a person appointed or elected to the post of official. According to § 2, the state authority in which work is considered public service, the Riigikogu, the Office of the President of the Republic, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, courts, government institutions within the meaning of § 39 of the Government Act, the Defence League, the National Audit Office and the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. Thus, public authorities managed by a government body within the meaning of § 43 of the Government Act or profit-making state agencies are not listed as bodies in which officials are employed. Secondly, § 4 (2) of the Anti-Corruption Act lists a number of persons who are officials within the meaning of that Act, even if they are not officials holding office. It's a very long list, and I'm not going to repeat it here, but I hope he trusts me and checks you find the same. Although the list includes a member of the board of directors and the supervisory board of a public company, a member of the board and the supervisory board of a legal entity governed by public law, the head of a public authority administered by a government authority, the executive directors, directors and directors of private foundations established by the State, the head of a State profit-making institution governed by the Ministry is not included in that list. Paragraphs 4 (3) and 4 of the Anti-Corruption Act also do not allow to conclude that RMK's head is an official within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act. It can therefore be concluded that if RMK were a body managed by a government body, it would be a leading official. Since, pursuant to § 47 of the Forest Act, it is a profit-making state agency operating in the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment on the basis of the Forest Act, other legislation and its own statute, it is a unique state agency whose employees are, unfortunately, not covered by § 4 (2) of the Anti-Corruption Act. Those who have an interest could look up the results of the Riigikogu vote if they voted in favour of such a unique state institution. I can be quite frankly say that this vote took place on 9 December 1998 and the Reform Party was not the biggest supporter of such regulation, as well as a soft expression. Secondly, is the explanation of RMK's leader exhaustive? I must admit that I do not fully understand the question, but if it is intended that such a situation should be, I rather think that a situation in which the head of the governing authority of the state's assets is not unequivocally covered by operating restrictions is not correct. As a result, in the new draft anti-corruption law submitted to the Riigikogu soon, a formal list of who is an official has been abandoned and the gap will be filled. The second question: 'Have you asked the Minister for the Environment to clarify this case? 'The Ministry of Justice has not asked the Minister for the Environment for explanations. As I have already said, there has been no breach of anti-corruption law under current law. The way in which the Ministry of the Environment manages and supervises profit-making institutions within its jurisdiction is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. At the same time, I know that both the Ministry of the Environment and the RMK Council are dealing with the subject and hopefully appropriate conclusions will be drawn. But with regard to the administration of the Ministry of Justice, with regard to the new anti-corruption law, we will in any case also resolve this possible ambiguity. The third question: 'The public has also been left unanswered as to whether the costs of the sports club Forest Friends constitute a special benefit for RMK's employees, which is taxable income tax and social tax. ' Unfortunately, this is a matter of tax law, to which it is the responsibility of another minister to answer. As far as I know, these payments have been paid off as a special bonus. Question 4: How do you assess the ethical aspect of this case, where the persons employed by the taxpayer allocate funds to their NGO for personal activities? Is this principle of equal treatment guaranteed for all officials working in public authorities? ' As has already been said, I consider such a situation ethically objectionable, but that is only my position. In order to prevent such situations from happening in the future, steps have been taken with the drafting of a new draft anti-corruption law, to which I have already referred. Hopefully, the Government of the Republic will be able to send it to the Riigikogu this month. I hope that the new draft anti-corruption law will be dealt with in Parliament in substantive debates and will finally be adopted. Many thanks to the questioners for their questioning! I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U181	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Please ask a question from my colleague, Mr Tammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U182	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Thanks for the good answers, but I'll ask for a little more. Although the police announced that corruption proceedings will not be initiated to investigate the activities of the leader of RMK, Jaan Kinter, professor of criminology at the University of Tartu, appreciates that the leader of RMK has violated the anti-corruption law. I ask: how can one law be assessed so differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U183	Well, I guess you know a lot about saying three lawyers, four opinions. Different laws can be interpreted differently. In order to prevent such possible ambiguities in the future, we are making a new anti-corruption law. The new anti-corruption law no longer contains such possible ambiguity. I've also made my own assessment. In my opinion, this situation is ethically questionable and should not be present. However, at this point in time, the head of such an institution is not covered by this law. So there's nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U184	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U185	The next question is the report on the Gender Equality Council submitted on 7 December last year by members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, Kalle Laaneti, Valeri Korbi, Ester Tuiksoo, Lauri Laas, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Inara Luigas, Yana Toomi, Deniss Borodichi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Olga Sõtnik, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa and Kadri Simson. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U186	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Our inquiry concerns the Gender Equality Council, the creation of which is provided for in the Gender Equality Act, which was adopted already in 2004. But the Gender Equality Council still doesn't exist. On that we have four questions for you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U187	Please speak with the esteemed Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U188	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! The first question is very simple: 'Why do you think that the establishment of the Gender Equality Council has been delayed? 'The Ministry takes the same view as before that, when the Council is set up, both in terms of promoting gender equality and cooperation between the various parties, it is essential that the means of ensuring the Council's active and consistent functioning are ensured. This, in turn, means that the Ministry must have sufficient staff and money to prepare Council meetings and working documents, organise meetings, support the work of the Council during meetings, etc. At the same time, we have mostly been in a situation where, due to very limited resources, difficult choices need to be made about activities. Gender equality has so far been financed mainly by external instruments, but it was not possible to cover the costs of the Council's activities and services. The second question: 'The Gender Equality Council confirms the broad lines of gender equality policy and submits its position to the Government of the Republic on the compliance of the national programmes submitted by ministries with § 9 of the Gender Equality Act. Who is currently carrying out the tasks assigned to the Council? ' The tasks directly assigned to the Council can, of course, only be carried out by the Council itself, but we in the Ministry are responsible for all the tasks that the Ministry, as a government body, has under the Gender Equality Act, and, of course, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner is responsible for the tasks falling within his remit. We are of the opinion that, if the Council were to be set up, the Council should certainly review the tasks laid down by law, both in principle and in wording, so that it can be established whether they are the right ones. The third question: 'When will the Gender Equality Council be set up? ' It is a pleasure to note that we have relaunched the discussions to find possible members of the Council. We have planned to conclude the preparatory discussions during the first quarter and in March to start negotiations with specific people on whether they are ready to become members of the Council. Once we have reached agreements on the members of the Council, we need to move on to the government level and discuss whether and when the government will be able to approve the Council. The fourth question is my assessment of Article 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act, which concerns employers. As a reminder and for the sake of the verbatim, Paragraph 11 (2) refers to the employer's obligation to collect gender-based occupational statistics. The answer is that, of course, in order to know what the situation of women and men in the organisation is, it is necessary to characterise the situation, to collect data and to analyse it. It is a question of whether the state should establish a list of essential data by means of legislation, or whether it should guide and assist employers with other, so-called soft measures, in order to achieve the same result, i.e. the availability of data. This has also been the main topic of discussion in previous debates on the contention of § 11 (2). The Ministry has sent a draft regulation of the Government of the Republic on the collection of gender-based work-related statistics by the employer to the coordination circle. Unfortunately, the employers' representative organisation, the Confederation of Employers, has not coordinated the draft. This draft regulation has therefore been sought to improve, but, for various reasons, no consensus has been found so far on this regulation. At the same time, it should be noted that in the intervening years, the Ministry has actively taken so-called soft measures aimed at employers. I have already talked about communication with employers, not only through'mandatory measures', but also through other measures. As the coordination of the regulation has not come, we have focused mainly on soft measures. For example, in 2007 and 2008 the European Union's "Transition Facility 2006" twinning project "The principle and objective of healthy and sustainable businesses" was implemented in cooperation with Estonia and France. The aim of this project was to raise awareness among private sector entrepreneurs of legislation, policies, instruments and good practice in promoting gender equality in companies. A handbook has also been issued and a number of workshops were organised under the ESF's "Promotion of Gender Equality 2008-2010' programme in autumn 2010. This handbook, to which I referred, is 'Use and balance: a recipe book for promoting gender equality for the leaders of Estonian companies'. There are, for example, tables in Annex 1 with data that should be analysed by the employer in order to obtain a first overview of the gender situation in the organisation. I cannot even read all the projects carried out under the ESF programme, but there have been quite a few. When it comes to the future, in February or March, depending on the suitability of the timetables, we have planned to meet once again with representatives of the Confederation of Employers and the Confederation of Trade Unions to discuss how to proceed in the interests of complying with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U189	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Now let's start asking questions. The first question is from Mr Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U190	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Can you tell us what are the main problems that have prevented this council from being formed at the right time or which have been dragging it down for so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U191	Thank you. The main problem, however, is that the work of this Council really does not just need the Council to come together. When it comes to the Council's substantive work and read the law, to which the heirs referred, it is clear that the Council confirms the broad lines of gender equality policy. It is not just a meeting council, it is a substantive council that needs to be served on a daily basis. The Ministry's financial resources have not been sufficient to create this council at the moment. Of course, I can't go back in time seven or eight years to know all these details, but I can tell you what we've done and what we're doing. As I said, we have started again to put this council together. Let's see if we can do this or not. But it is clear that there is a need to find a common language with the social partners here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U192	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U193	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In this Chamber today, the Prime Minister answered questions about the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality. It seemed pretty sad because this office is underfunded. That's what we all know. If you look at the fact that the Council has not been created and again because of the lack of money, there is a slightly speculative question, but still: can you perhaps assess the functioning of the Gender Equality Act in Estonia on a ten-ball scale? Do you not consider it necessary to separate the supervision of the Gender Equality Act and the Equal Treatment Act, which is currently in the hands of one person, but in practical life it does not work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U194	Thank you for your question. I would be happy to debate and exchange views on this subject for a very long time. If we are talking not only about the Council, which was asked about in the inquiry, but when we are talking about the Commissioner, my personal conviction is that the Commissioner must be guaranteed a more legitimate functioning and legal certainty. It would be reasonable for the institution of the Commissioner to be with the institution of the Chancellor of Justice. The question is whether the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice serves the offices of the Commissioner or whether the rights of the Commissioner of Justice, such as children's ombudsman's rights, are conferred on the Chancellor of Justice. It's a debate place. However, in order for people to have a clearer distinction between the Ministry of Social Affairs as an executive agency and, for example, the Department for Gender Equality, when it comes to policy development and the direct performance of the Commissioner's duties, I think that they should be separated very clearly. I hope that we will be able to continue the debate in Parliament this year, too, in order to find the right place for the Commissioner and find funding for next year so that the Commissioner can normally do his job. In this case, it is ensured that the Commissioner can do his day-to-day work and that the legal clarity and legal certainty of the Commissioner's institution are also ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U195	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I asked the same question as to why the Gender Equality Council had not been set up in October 2011 to the Minister of Justice. I am very surprised to hear you say that the law is not being enforced because there is no money. A common person in Estonia cannot say that he does not comply with the law because he has no money. The Minister of Justice answered my question as to why the law was not enforced, that he assumed that there were objective reasons for doing so. I do not understand that seven years and more have passed since the law should have been fulfilled, but it has not been fulfilled by today either. Seven years, I repeat! How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U197	Thank you. Like I said, I don't really know the beginning of this thing at 100%, but as a hint, I highlighted employers' behaviour. When we are talking about the Council's substantive work, the implementation of § 11 of the Act, to which I referred, must also be seen as a substantive work. It is important that all social partners have a clear agreement and understanding that this Council is necessary and must carry out their tasks. Of course, money is an important factor. The financial situation has been extremely difficult over the years that I have been in the ministry. Since February 2009, when I took up my current post, the Ministry's operating costs have not increased, they have only decreased since then. That is why it is very difficult. It seems to me that it is possible to talk about funding, and we have started these processes, but it is now necessary to find the right and good people in this council. I hope that the social partners will come along with this idea. As I said, this is not only a national supervision obligation, but there are still a lot of employer-related tasks; employers must follow the principles set out in the Gender Equality Act and the Equal Treatment Act in their institutions-organisations-companies. The work of the Council must not become null and void. When a principle or rule is agreed, employers and employees must follow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U198	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U199	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. When Mr Efendiev asked what was the main reason why the Council had not been formed so far, you said that the Ministry had not found the money. If you can tell me that the Ministry hasn't found or can't find the money, maybe you know what kind of money we're talking about. What is the amount that the Ministry would need to support and support this council so that it could finally be formed? How many euros a year will it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U200	Thank you for your question. It will not be correct to answer this question until it has been agreed who are members of this council, how many there are, whether the members of the board are willing to do this work voluntarily or whether they want to be paid for it, how much staff is needed, etc. If this data is together, we can certainly tell you a very accurate amount. Everyone can then calculate the level of the remuneration of the service staff, the amount of the so-called meeting fee of one of the board members, if required, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U201	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U202	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that this Council cannot be formed because there is no money. On the other hand, funding is still based on political preferences, priorities. Let me get this straight. You have not seen the need to resolve this issue for years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U203	Thank you for your question. You don't get it right. I just said that a couple of years, while I've been in the ministry, have been very difficult. In my day, the Ministry's operating expenses have been drastically reduced. I dare say that right now we can plan this action, we've started it. I also said that in response to an inquiry. First we need to find these people and then we can see when this Council could meet for the first time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U204	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U205	Madam President! Dear Minister, The development of justice policy until 2018 has highlighted the need to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of everyone, to increase the coherence of society and the effectiveness of the legal system. The same document also speaks of providing systemic attention to legal awareness. It should become regular by the end of 2013. At the same time, measurement problems arise when measuring any awareness. As one of them, the question of the period that determines regularity must be resolved. Hopefully, one indicator of legal awareness will also be whether the obligations of the Government of the Republic laid down by law have been recognised by its members. Based on the current experience, the range for measuring the legal awareness of the Estonian government remains small from one election and government period as well as from a magical seven-year period. In particular, the Gender Equality Act adopted in 2004 provides for the creation of a collegial decisive body, the Gender Equality Council. Although the Statute for the establishment of this Council was adopted already in 2005, the Council has not yet been established. Seven countries and seas have also failed to fulfil another government obligation: an obligation to adopt a government regulation to instruct employers to analyse the situation of gender inequality/equality in their organisations, thus fulfilling the obligation imposed on them by law (Article 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act). This was envisaged as a regulation of the Government of the Republic, which would help Estonian entrepreneurs to be competitive with companies from other European Union Member States, who are also obliged not only to treat male and female workers formally but also to promote gender equality, because it is highly dependent on both the productivity and efficiency of the company, not to mention the climate of the organisation. If you give examples, you can look at the processing of the draft collective agreement law in the Riigikogu. Nobody asked employers or employees for advice. Now the minister said that employers did not agree. My question is how can we discuss a law that trade unions do not agree with? I am bringing here a parallel with the debate on the draft law on collective agreements. I very much hope that this Council will be created and created in a working capacity, and that money will finally be found to serve this Council, so that it is not the same as the Gender Equality Commissioner, who, along with one lawyer, will have to do all the work and they will not actually be able to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U206	Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. A colleague of the speech chair, Yana Toomi, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U207	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I actually only have a couple of short marks. It is very unfortunate and very embarrassing to see that we are actually dealing with a large village of Potemkin in the case of the Gender Equality Act and also the Equal Treatment Act. We have one institution that is underfunded and cannot handle its tasks. Mr Minister, in answering my question, said that he felt that the post of Gender Equality Commissioner could be attached to the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice, in turn, takes the opposite view. I asked him for his opinion on this, and the answer was that he was already overburdened because he was given the responsibilities of the children's ombudsman. But I will repeat the figures that sounded on the remote again today: there are 59 officials at Mr Teder's office, there is an official at Mrs Sepper's office. It is obvious that these tasks will not be fulfilled. Talk about no money, we're gonna hear it for seven or five years, depending on how long we're gonna be asking about it. But this cannot under any circumstances be a justification for non-compliance with the law in the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U208	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U209	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Kalev Kallo, Viktor Vassilyev, Lauri Laas, Aadu Musta, Heimar Leng and Valeri Korb, on 13 December last year. Marika Tuus-Lauli, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I see there are no people left on the coalition side in this hall except for the manager. Managing families with children and the subject of child poverty, and poverty in general, are issues that government members usually do not want to address very much and do not want to address. However, recent data show that the need for income support has not diminished. This was particularly high in 2010, but there was no improvement in the previous year either, and in the course of the nine months of 2011, as many as 220,900 members of the family received income support. Child poverty has also increased nearly threefold compared to 2008. Recent data from Praxis show that the percentage of children living below the absolute poverty line has increased as well as the number of children living in deep poverty. In particular, increasing family benefits would help to reduce child poverty, but unfortunately, parental benefits have increased and the percentage of family benefits of GDP has decreased, says the Centre for Political Studies. We have been waiting a very long time for the Minister to talk about this matter, for almost two months now. In the meantime, we also had time to ask a written question on the same or close subject. Perhaps the Minister can now address this problem even more broadly and also state the latest data from Praxis on the absolute poverty line and the number of children living in deep poverty below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U211	Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs to answer the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U212	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! The first question of your inquiry dealt with measures aimed at children. It is worth noting, of course, that, if we look at a whole decade, the number of recipients of income support and the financial resources spent on paying the allowance steadily decreased between 2001 and 2008 due to the relatively good economic situation. However, in times of economic crisis, expenditure started to increase logically. As we know, the most important change was the 20% increase in the subsistence limit for families in difficulty and therefore for children. The increase in the number of recipients of income support in 2011 and in the amount spent on payment of support compared to recent years has slowed considerably. That is certainly the most important thing. As far as other measures are concerned, I will talk about them further on the following issues. The second issue concerns the development plan and implementation plan for children and families and activities aimed at local authorities. It is true that we have also seen local authorities as a strong partner in the development plan for children and families, especially in terms of improving the capacity of local authorities to provide services in particular, for example, contributing to the competence of specialists and supporting practical child protection work, in particular the central development of valuation instruments in the Ministry, as well as providing guidance to municipalities to ensure that child protection work in local governments and services for children are similar. I believe that one of the most important measures that will start in the coming years, or even this year, is the establishment of regional advisory centres for children and families. It has already begun in various activities. We have planned to build them together with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Justice, so that, according to the current vision, the centres would cover children's and families' problems in the social, health, law enforcement and educational fields, i.e. children in need of help, would be dealt with in a complex way. Our idea is that the centres will provide support to local government professionals in assessing and solving more complex cases and providing services. Similarly, mobile teams should be set up to cooperate in practice with local authorities and to be as close to families as possible. We have planned for this year's budget EUR 69000 for initial operations. These amounts should increase significantly in the coming years as the state budget opportunities improve. We have also planned external financing to keep the situation focused. The financial mechanism of the European Economic Area, or the EEA Financial Mechanism for 2012‐2016, is at an advanced stage. In total, some EUR 2 million has been planned for family policy measures that directly assist families, which is a very large amount. We plan to develop the centres through open offers and municipalities can come as partners. The third question: 'When and on what grounds are there plans to increase public family allowances? ' Here's a pretty simple and short answer. We have agreed that we will prepare a Green Paper for families this year before even increasing family benefits. This activity is also provided for in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. The end time is the second half of next year, but I do hope that we will be able to agree on a larger set of principles this year. There are both family benefits and services inside. Then it can be made clear that we are committed to looking at the needs of families a little more personally and to helping more people who need more help. The fourth question relates to the restoration of the "Every Child's Kindergarten Place" programme. The question was, how likely do I think it is? It is worth recalling what the speakers have heard from the speaker on several occasions that other measures are currently supporting municipalities in creating kindergarten places. We have the resources of the Structural Funds and the resources from the sale of emission allowances, and for the creation of kindergarten places, especially for the better quality of kindergartens, it is the Norwegian financial mechanisms that apply for funding. So the activities are going on all the time. Whether this activity has been given the name of a separate programme, I believe, is not so important. But if there are financial opportunities, whether with the support of the Structural Funds or with the state budget, then helping municipalities to provide better services is certainly not wrong. The fifth issue is about schools for children with special needs. I wouldn't want to argue with the Minister of Education and Science in any way or contradict his claims. For my part, I can add that we have set a general goal so that as many children as possible, including children with disabilities, can still attend the school of their place of residence. The Ministry of Social Affairs supports the ability of children to attend mainstream schools and, if possible and necessary, special classes are also created. But it has to be said that local governments now have the incentive to direct children to a special school in the state, because then the local government will no longer have to directly organise and finance a relatively expensive special education in the local school. Speaking of schools for children with special educational conditions, as far as we know, the problem here is the lack of adequate support systems, including rehabilitation at school, insufficient staffing or their lack of competence in dealing with mental disorders or behavioural problems with children, and a special school environment that does not help to alleviate psychiatric problems. In the development plan for children and families, we have set out a number of activities aimed at early detection of problems, early intervention and helping children with special needs, including the development of health support services for children with disabilities in the education system, the development of an intervention and evaluation system for children's development needs, the provision of further training for professionals working with children with mental or behavioural disorders and the establishment of a child psychiatric centre, which would address and prevent mental health problems for children and adolescents. This last one is planned for Tallinn. The sixth question concerns the limit of absolute poverty and its in-depth poverty by comparing data with data for 2007. There is certainly a need to clarify some concepts. The absolute poverty threshold, i.e. the living minimum, is calculated on the basis of expenditure in Estonia. The absolute poverty rate represents the proportion of households whose income per member per month is below the level of absolute poverty spending. According to the absolute method of calculating poverty, households and household members living in direct or deep poverty and at risk of coping can be distinguished for households living below the limit of absolute poverty. Households and their members are considered to be living in deep poverty if their monthly income represents less than 80% of the absolute poverty threshold. In 2007, it is estimated that 4% of children aged 0 to 15 lived on these conditions and 8.9%, or 8700 children, and 19000 children in 2010. Let me make this clear: in 2007, 4%, or 8700, and in 2010, the household budget survey, carried out by Statistics Estonia, showed that 8.9%, or an estimated 19000 children. However, there is one more thing I would like to emphasise. When drawing conclusions on changes in this indicator compared to previous years, it should be borne in mind that these changes are not only caused by processes in society, but are also affected by changes in the data source and the data collection method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U213	Thank you! Dear Minister, You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am sure that one measure that helped families with children to cope better was the so-called 'panish grant'. You said that a Green Paper was being drawn up, which summarizes the whole issue of how to support families with children. Could the grant be part of this Green Paper, i.e. is it going to restore the grant in one form or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U215	Thank you. I think it's reasonable not to engage in divination. Let experts and specialists do their job. We have also responded to questions about the pack subsidy in the past. I'd still wait for what the experts say. Then we can also discuss and hold a broader debate on the measures and principles that can be written there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U216	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U217	Thank you. I would have liked to have heard about the increase in the number of applications for income support that have been submitted and granted, including the number of people who have received them. How many children have been among them in different years? I proposed 2008 because it was the last such good year, which can then be compared to particularly bad years, years 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U218	Thank you. It was presented as a written question. The answer to the written question should reach the honourable inquisitor right away, but fortunately I have this answer with me. If you look at the number of applications granted, 2008 was really a very good year, because this figure was 59587.2009, it almost doubled in 106819.2010, the figure was 165119.2011, it was already showing a decline of 161644. These are total numbers. Did that answer the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U219	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today in this hall, we really talked about the program 'Every child's kindergarten place'. The Prime Minister said that between 2007 and 2013, EUR 48,8 million will support the construction or renovation of 113 day-care centres. These are, of course, acceptable figures. This big money may be more interested in builders, but I, Mr. Minister, am interested in how many new kindergartens we get in day care centres. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister owed an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U221	Thank you. I, too, am indebted to the answer at the moment because there is no central collection of data on how municipalities set up kindergarten places or, for example, use allowances funds. A former district manager of Nõmme just came behind you, who can tell me how many kindergarten places were created for Nõmme in the last three years. If I put in my memory images of how many new kindergartens have been built or old ones have been renovated or, for example, used in an old kindergarten for groups of kindergartens that have not been used so far, it must be said that this number is quite solid, but it is very difficult to say exactly. The question is, in many respects, what the opportunities of local governments have been. I really don't know exactly what to say. I believe that no one in Estonia can say exactly how many more kindergarten places have been made in one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U222	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I may have a bit of a personal question, so please don't take it as an attack. I'll explain why I'm talking about it. I have kids and they have friends. I know the only meal a day for some of my kids' friends is when he comes to my house. There's actually a lot of kids like that. As a minister, do you really have the feeling that you're keeping your hand on the pulse and being well informed? If you're talking and you're producing this data, it's all very nice, but it doesn't add up to the real life that we see everywhere every day when we step out of this house.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U224	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I'm familiar with real life. I have two kids, one goes to school, the other goes to kindergarten. I see what's happening every day. I have said here many times before that the most important thing is to guarantee services. If the municipality has a kindergarten place, then there is also a presumption that the child can eat warm food at least two or three times a day or simply eat, depending on how the kindergarten provides food. This is extremely important. The same is true in schools. When we talk about releasing food in kindergarten, it is known to be possible if the municipality allows it. I can assure you, having been a member of the kindergarten board for quite a long time, including the chairman of the board of trustees, that we made quite a lot of such decisions. When the family applied for an exemption from payment for food, we allowed it. That's the first thing. Services must be provided. It must be a warm kindergarten with food, it is very important, and it is also important that school food is guaranteed. These are the first things. If guaranteed, children will have at least this half in order. Of course, if the family also suffers from coping difficulties, the state also covers subsistence needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U225	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U226	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I wasn't going to ask, but I'm still going to repeat my question, which I also asked the Prime Minister. I'm asking again about kindergartens and children's situation. For example, there is no problem with kindergarten places in Narva, but the problem is that there are very many unemployed people, and families with many children cannot pay for the kindergarten place. Turns out these kids aren't dozens, they're hundreds. They are not prepared for school, and poverty is almost a way of life. How do you assess whether it is only the problem of this municipality or whether it is still a national problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U227	Thank you for your question. Of course, this is the problem of the municipality first. There are social workers in the municipality who are responsible for this every day. When they receive signals from children or families in need, they must intervene. I went to Narva myself, and I was very pleased. The places I saw, including day care centres for children, worked very well. These centers were attended by children who could not go home after school for any reason. They were cared for very well, played with them, and, if necessary, learned with them and were given food. It is very positive that there are municipalities that offer such opportunities to children who are struggling. But, of course, it is primarily the responsibility of the municipality. It should be made clear to the family that they can apply for income support, and this support is naturally financed by the state. There's one more thing I want to say that I didn't say in my questioning. Just for the information of honest respondents, Eurostat publishes country-by-country indicators showing the relative poverty rate of children. The last published figure in 2010 shows that the average percentage of children living in relative poverty in the European Union is 21. The worst situation is in Romania, Bulgaria and Latvia (31%, 27% and 27%) and the other end is in Finland and Denmark with 11%. Estonia is clearly going down in this table, with a relative child poverty rate of 17%. A reminder: the average was 21%. These statistics can be taken out of Eurostat data.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U228	Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We heard as the last sentence of the Minister that neither poverty nor poverty is Estonia's problem, that we have relatively few relative poverty. But I want to say here that the method of measuring relative poverty has recently been changed in Estonia and that is why these figures are not so well comparable. We can see that poverty and the disbursement of income support have still increased considerably in recent years. The figures were particularly bad in 2010, but there was no significant decrease last year either. While during the whole of 2008, which was the last good year, the state granted some 59600 income support applications, there were already some 165200 applications in 2010. The increase was almost triple. If we look at last year, we will see that 125650 applications were granted in nine months alone. So there's not much improvement. We were talking about satisfying applications, but when we look at people back there, or family members, we see that when 72800 people received income support in nine months 2008, even 221,900 people in 2011. Let's look at child poverty: in nine months last year, 62150 children received income support in their families. You have to name these numbers, otherwise you don't get the full idea. The income limit is 76.70 euros per month, for each subsequent family member it is 61.36 euros. When thinking about families with children of school age, it must be said that it is not possible to feed and dress children, buy shoes for them, not to mention paying for hobbies or hobbies. The latest data from Statistics Estonia also show that income support is far from sufficient to come out of poverty. This support is low and leads to poverty. According to Statistics Estonia, child poverty has also increased exponentially. The minister mentioned the percentage of children living in deep poverty, absolute poverty. We can see it's grown. I'm not gonna go over those numbers. I remember the statement by Alar Tamme, Head of Child Welfare Association, a few months ago. He said that tens of thousands of children starve in Estonia. He offered that 30,000 children would not receive warm food, but so many children would not receive parental care. I think we saw now that the figures he proposed are still too good. According to Kärt Mere, Member of the Management Board of the Nõmme Child Welfare Association, the poor are no longer just unemployed. He said that the average wage was already a sign of poverty. Of course, problem number 1 is that subsidies are small. Children's allowance for the first and second children, which is EUR 19.18, is ridiculous. However, the poorest families, for the most part, do not get it, as child support has been included in the family's income for many years, so families receiving income support also lose a small amount of it. Changing the basis for payment of income support is now very important, as we have done everything we can to prevent families in groups at risk from receiving child support. According to the Minister, child support is considered to be a useful income. Secondly, the Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis has pointed out that in recent years parental benefit has increased most from financial support for families with children. At the same time, the percentage of the GDP of family benefits has been steadily declining. I have just said that Praxis is of the opinion that it is public family benefits that are still the most likely to reduce poverty. Can I have a little more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U230	You've already had an extra three minutes. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U231	Got it. So the problem is serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U232	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U233	Let's move on to the next question. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Lauri Laas, Viktor Vassilyev, Deniss Borodich and Kadri Simson on 15 December 2011. The inquiry is about compliance with § 52 of the Health Services Organisation Act. The Social Minister, Hanno Pevkur, will answer the question. I ask the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning of the speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U234	Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry concerns § 52 of the Health Services Organisation Act and its enforcement. The Health Services Organisation Act states that the Ministry of Social Affairs finances health services and related activities. According to this, since 2008, the Ministry has also been obliged to pay the depreciation of the buildings of health care providers by concluding a contract between the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry. Since 2008, it has been well written in the law. The funds were initially planned for this purpose, but neither in 2009, 2010 nor 2011 nor in this year were the funds allocated. We turned to the Chancellor of Justice a year ago. The Chancellor of Justice has also expressed his view that the law is not being complied with. We are asking the Minister why the law is not being enforced and when it will be enforced. Using available means, we can shorten the medical queues, improve medical service and take more care of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U235	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkuri, to answer the question of the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U236	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll start at the very end before I go to the questions. As far as depreciation is concerned, it is a myth, as if some form of additional resources would be released and something more could be done with it. However, hospitals will always be able to do more when additional resources are available. Let us now go to specific questions. The first question concerns the reasons for which the financing of depreciation of buildings has not been restored. We must start with the fact that the law provides, in our opinion, an opportunity to allocate additional resources in the form of a dedicated allocation. In 2008, these were additional resources from the state budget. If we look at the years that followed, we will see that budget resources in both health and other areas have definitely decreased considerably. When we look at the ministry's activities, we also put together this year's draft state budget, asking for an additional allocation of nearly EUR 8 million for health care providers to cover the depreciation of buildings, but unfortunately this was not possible during the budget negotiations. It should not be forgotten that hospitals have been allocated much more funds. The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) measures have been allocated hundreds and hundreds of millions of kroons in recent years, plus hospital self-financing. This year's total investment by hospitals from the European Regional Development Fund amounted to 25 million euros, calculated in euros. Let it be added that this additional request was EUR 8 million. These funds, which are already going to capital investment in hospitals, are much greater than the additional opportunity provided by the law. The second issue concerns the validity of the Health Services Organisation Act next year. Most of the answers were already rejected by answering the first question. We have raised the issue at least once again during the state budget procedure. The personal question is whether or not we can shape it into a positive outcome. The third question must be read out so that it can be properly answered: 'The funding provided by health care providers is lower than in 2008, when this provision of the law was implemented, as the depreciation of health care providers' buildings has been financed in recent years from the health insurance tax. Thus, health care providers have covered the depreciation of buildings from health insurance funds and have invested less in medical equipment and paid less wages to employees. ' The statement in the question that the reduction in funding for healthcare providers is linked to whether or not the depreciation of buildings is financed from the state budget is inaccurate. As explained above, the corresponding costs are allocated to the health care provider regardless of the state budget, as part of the price of the services by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. According to § 30 (4) of the Health Insurance Act, the limit price for health care covers all the costs necessary for the provision of health care, except for research and training for students and students. Paragraph 89 (5) of the same Act clearly mentions the costs of building and renovating buildings as one of the price components of health care services. The depreciation of buildings accounts for about a few per cent of the price of health care. The fall in funding for health care providers in the years of the economic downturn was mainly due to a reduction in the collection of health insurance contributions and consequently to the need to reduce healthcare prices by 6%. If you come to the health workers' pay survey, by March 2011, the monthly salaries of doctors, despite cuts, had returned to pre-crisis levels and even exceeded it. At the same time, unfortunately, the salaries of nursing and carers did not reach the 2008 level by March. Of the average wage in the country, doctors' wages were more than twice as high, nurses' wages were above the average of 9%, and the average wage of carers was 62% of the average wage. Thus, if you look at statistics purely, the average salary of doctors has risen faster than the national average. There was also a reference to the exodus of health professionals. Let's appreciate some trends. For example, in 2004, 284 certificates were issued to doctors. If the funds were in the best condition in 2008 on the health insurance side of the health insurance fund, this figure was also the lowest. It has been relatively stable in recent years: in 2010 it has been 135 and in 2011 141. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the number of certificates issued and the number of persons who actually left may not match what we have talked about repeatedly here. We certainly recognise that the recession has affected both wages and emigration, but it cannot be linked to the depreciation of buildings. Question 4: 'When is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to put an end to the breach and restore the depreciation of buildings of health care providers from the state budget? ' I continue to believe that this is not a violation of the law, it is an opportunity to allocate additional resources from the state budget, if possible, to the sector. Of course, when these opportunities will be re-opened depends on how the general public budget opportunities develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U237	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U238	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have the Chancellor of Justice's statements on the same case regarding the depreciation of buildings. It has stated very precisely that the current financing practice does not, in principle, comply with this provision and that the legislator has not complied with that provision. He has said that he wishes to leave the legislator the opportunity to eliminate the infringement within a reasonable period of time. This was already done in 2010. To date, this infringement has not been remedied. When, though?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U239	I have read from this quote that the Chancellor of Justice wishes to leave the legislator the opportunity to put an end to this infringement. The Chancellor of Justice used the word 'in principle'. The truth is that different lawyers have different opinions. I certainly do not dispute the position of the Chancellor of Justice. However, we have also realised, arguing with the Ministry of Finance and the lawyers there, that this is an additional opportunity created by the Health Services Organisation Act and that foreign resources, which are considerably more than necessary to cover the depreciation of buildings, cannot be excluded. We can keep the debate going, but the fact is that it has to be seen as an additional opportunity, and the fact is that if we also take European funds, the cost of capital will be allocated to hospitals much more than the Ministry's request to cover the capital costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U240	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! It is very instructive and interesting to listen to you as Minister of the Government Coalition, which is, unfortunately, full of negative signals. When the Prime Minister tells us here, he calls it a percentage of GDP, how much is spent on health care, he says it's growing, we're getting better and better. But you're saying that the exodus of doctors doesn't go down and the pay of nurses and carers doesn't go up. You're talking about every time you ask the state budget for money to cover hospital capital expenditures, but they don't give that money. If you compare your story and Mr Ansip's story, the question arises as to why you are giving us such negative signals. Are you so sad and negative because you're an honest person?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U242	Thank you. I don't remember telling you sisters don't get paid. I just said that the nurses' salary increased, but it didn't grow as fast as the doctors' wages. Speaking of my subjective assessments, I will continue to believe that we have too few sisters and that the nurses' salary could be higher. If we look at care workers, their salary, which is 62% of the national average wage, is certainly low. But I believe that if there were a minister of culture or a minister of education here, you would hear the same concern that employees' wages could be higher. There are similar concerns in different sectors. As far as signals are concerned, our signals certainly do not differ significantly. If we take the ratio to GDP, health expenditure has actually increased. There are no data for 2011, but we can assume that there was a slight decrease in 2011, as the increase in health expenditure was significant, but it was not as rapid as GDP growth. I believe that in terms of GDP and health expenditure, we may have seen some setbacks in 2011. We don't have that data yet. Let's wait. In 2012, the situation, I believe, is changing in a slightly different direction, because we have planned an increase of almost EUR 60 million in health expenditure, which is a very large increase. It is worth remembering that it is almost a billion Estonian kroons. As far as the relationship to GDP is concerned, we do not yet know what GDP is doing. The forecasts of the Ministry of Finance and other financial institutions are different, talking about growth of 2% to 3%. Health expenditure cannot, of course, be increased directly to GDP, but if we compare health expenditure and if we take 2011 versus 2012, we are talking about an increase of 8%. So this should change the ratio again in favour of health expenditure. In this sense, I believe, it is unreasonable to talk about the relationship to GDP or anything else. It doesn't give us the right picture. Let's talk about the real situation. The situation is that we are betting more this year. The years 2009 and 2010 were very difficult in health care. One important keyword concerning the exodus of health professionals comes from last week. I met with my Finnish colleagues, and we agreed that we would conduct a simultaneous health workers' survey in Finland and Estonia, compare doctors working in Finland and Estonia, and get the best knowledge of how many Estonian doctors could work in Finland and how many doctors from other countries could work in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U243	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U244	Good chairman of the sitting! I don't think there was a problem with three minutes less time. I accept your apology. However, as far as this question is concerned, I recall that it was February 2007 when the Group of the Centre Party and the People's Union launched a draft in the Committee on Social Affairs which obliged the state budget to pay for the depreciation of the buildings of health care providers from 2008 onwards. I remember the arguments were quite heated in this Chamber, but in any case, the decision was taken unanimously. It is really in the interests of patients, as well as hospitals, to cover the depreciation of buildings in health care establishments from the state budget, because the money available helps better and more people to be treated. This will make it possible to significantly improve access to healthcare, as well as quality. At the time, this money was well planned for next year's budget. As has already been said, in 2008, this money was available, but not in all subsequent years. Unfortunately, there has been no more money in the state budget to finance depreciation of buildings since 2009. At the same time, we know how much this money is missing in the service of patients. We know what waiting lists are now for specialist doctors, how even the quality of treatment has deteriorated, how people cannot pay for dental care and how the money allocated for all of this could have been much higher. As has already been said, the Chancellor of Justice has answered us very accurately. At the end of 2010, he said that the organisation of the financing of depreciation of buildings was not in accordance with the law, which provided for a clear distinction between the resources needed to cover depreciation of buildings and the sources of funding from the funds allocated to other health care providers. The Minister always offers more foreign resources and European money here. We cannot talk about European money in the context of the depreciation of buildings, because we cannot start treating people with European money, it is asphalt money. But if we were to cover the depreciation of the buildings, we could heal people for the money we get out of there. It's really two things. When we make the next question, there is no point in giving it any importance or even not mentioning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U245	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Before we stop discussing this question, I will tell my good fellow official, Marika Tuus-Laul, that the fact that three minutes of your time were taken away during the debate on the previous question was a serious mistake. I apologize to you from the bottom of my heart. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U246	Let us move to the next question, which is point 12 of today's agenda. It was presented by the members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Inara Luis, Kalle Laanet, Rainer Vakra, Kalev Kallo and Viktor Vassiliev on 24 January 2012. The inquiry is about the internal audit of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Hanno Pevkur answers the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Marika Tuus-Lauli, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The internal audit of the Ministry of Social Affairs was dealt with by three NGOs established by the Ministry of Social Affairs and an official of the Ministry of Justice. The internal audit identified an offence. The aim of this NGO was to develop a custody system for children exposed to human trafficking and was supported by the Ministry with 100,000 kroons. At the same time, the Ministry has so far cooperated with a number of civil society associations dealing with the same subject, but it was precisely this association, which was formed mainly by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, that received financial support. We know that in order to carry out the remaining projects included in the development plan, other non-profit institutions must participate in competitions. The non-profit association itself clearly had advantages because the founders had information on which project it was worth offering. The current Anti-Corruption Act states that an official is forbidden to engage in transactions with a non-profit organisation of which he is a member, as well as with a non-profit organisation whose activities he itself controls, he may not act in that context. We have a few questions for the Minister. That's another analogous inquiry today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U248	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears the number 99!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U249	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! The first question: how do I assess the situation as a minister? My assessment certainly cannot differ much from what the law enforcement authorities say. On 10 January, the Public Prosecutor's Office sent a reply to our application stating that criminal proceedings would not be opened, on 12 January, the Defence Police Office announced that they had started misdemeanour proceedings, and on 19 January, the Office of the Police and Border Guard Board declared that the misdemeanour proceedings under § 263 of the Anti-Corruption Act would not be initiated. As far as my personal assessment is concerned, as I said when this case came out, it certainly cannot be justified. In my opinion, there must also be no seeming situations in the work of officials which may indicate an infringement of the law. The second question concerns the results of the internal audit carried out at the Ministry of Social Affairs. The internal audit highlighted three factors: Firstly, the projects were only partially implemented at the time of the audit. Secondly, no non-targeted expenditure has been incurred within the framework of the projects and all expenditure is supported by supporting documents. Thirdly, the Ministry has been provided with the required interim reports on the performance of the contracts. As regards the involvement of the three ministerial officials with the NGO on its own, the internal audit first established that these officials had not received any financial contributions from the NGO on their own. Secondly, no evidence was found that these persons had in the past received any other type of corrupt income in relation to the NGO on their own. Thirdly, the activities of the two officials at the NPO were related to tasks which they were partly obliged to carry out as ministerial officials. Fourthly, as a result of the Ministry's rules of procedure, these officials were not involved in the work of the committee for the evaluation of proposals for allocations and could not influence the panel's decision. Fifthly, the supervision of the contracts was damaged, since the authorised representative of the inspection was a person who was also a founding member of this non-profit association because of his position. As a result of these proposals, we asked the Public Prosecutor's Office to make an assessment. As I said in answer to the first question, the state prosecutor's office did not initiate proceedings. The third question: how justified do I consider the situation in which an official supervises the work of his non-profit association? I still believe that this is not justified. Of course, in answering this question, it is worth pointing out that in the Ministry, before this case became topical at all, it was already in 2011 that the control of the allocation was started earlier. As a result of this process, the control system has also been modified and such situations should be excluded. Question 4: What suggestions did the Ministry's internal audit department make me on the future? As I said in reply to the previous question, they were primarily linked to the process of control of allocations. The changes to the process are primarily designed so that we can carry out more effective checks with the available resources. Measures to improve the control system have been implemented or implemented. Question 5: For what reasons did the two officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs receive reprimand? Paragraph 84 (3) of the Civil Service Act was the basis. It concerns a misdemeanour contrary to generally accepted standards of morality, ethical requirements for an official, or discredits an official or authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U250	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U251	Thank you. You said that these officials, in part, had to deal with this work. I'm counting on it, but not part of it. If we are not talking only about this non-profit organisation, then I ask this question: is it possible for the ministry, for example, to pay a premium to officials who have to deal with something that is not directly part of their duties and could it not have been possible to apply this possibility in this case as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U252	Thank you. During different work processes, it is certainly possible to choose different measures and options for resolving one or the other issue. As far as child trafficking is concerned, Estonia has so far lacked competence because we have not had any practical cases. There were two cases last year, there are still some cases currently pending, but it is not clear whether or not they are among the trafficking cases. In any case, there have been very few. Indeed, the Ministry has begun to work to ensure that Estonia has the capacity to receive and organise custody of children who have been victims and unaccompanied by trafficking. Of course, as far as establishing regulation is concerned, it is the task of the ministry. However, it was found that since we have no human resources, it is more reasonable to order this work elsewhere. For this purpose, it was considered appropriate to use the MTÜ on its own. These jobs, as I said, were mostly well done. At the time of the audit, the projects were still ongoing. These work will be done. As I said, within the scope of my research competence, the Internal Audit Department found that these persons, the non-profit-making officials, had not received any remuneration from the association for this. Really, other people did this job in this non-profit organization. When the officials spent their spare time contributing to this, it was their free choice. It was done outside of work. These options differ, but we chose this form, given that the day-to-day work of those people who worked on the subject every day in the children's and families' department included other tasks. The Ministry itself did not have the resources to do so, and therefore assistance was sought from outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U253	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U254	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Do you think these employees should be part of this NGO on their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U255	Thank you. Tonight, these people have, as far as I know, left the non-profit organization. But I say frankly and honestly that the people who do the ministry's work in this area are doing it very well. They're very good officials. I've been talking to them. I don't want to judge them in any way, because they've done a very good job. In this case, it was rather a concern that they took on a great deal of responsibilities, that they tried to solve problems through a non-profit organisation and in their daily work. But they did the job with their hearts. I have no direct objection to any of these three cases concerning the work carried out in the Ministry and this case. Except that they should have known all the nuances, in particular the ethical nuances, in relation to the fact that if a public official is a member of a non-profit organisation, not only a member of the management board, but also just a member of the management board, the member of the management board announced that he is a member of the management board, he must take into account that there is a higher risk and, if possible, it must be fixed during the various processes so that there are no doubts and doubts such as to deal with this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U256	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The 12th inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-06_U257	Good fellows! Anyone who wishes to make a speech during a free microphone, please register after the hammer hit! There's no call. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you all the strength in your work. Closure of the sitting at 19.52 p.m.
