ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, and now it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to hand over the drafts and questions. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Mental Aid Act, the Health Services Organisation Act and the Civil Procedure Code. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U4	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, regarding the closure of Aidu's oil shale quarry in Ida-Viru County. We are essentially asking about this decision in two respects. The first is that there is still more than 6 million tonnes of undigested stock in Aidu County, which we do not think is right to leave there in terms of resource use. The second point concerns the'social and economic policy aspects'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. And now the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu s. a draft law amending the Chancellor of Justice's Act of 18 January and the Civil Servants' Titles and Grades Act, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; secondly, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre," submitted on 18 January, commission of the Environment Committee; thirdly, in the Social Democratic Party. a § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, which was initiated on 19 January, amends the law, the commission of the Social Welfare Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 19 January, Estonia presented its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks, on the European Union Affairs Commission and on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the draft regulation, on the opinion of the Economic Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 9 February at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 19 January Estonia submitted its views on the draft legislation of the European Union concerning the resolution of consumer disputes, the Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 8 February at 12 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 19 January Estonia's views on the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the re-use of public sector information and on the Communication from the European Commission 'Open data'. On the engine for innovation, growth and transparent management, the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed the Constitutional Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive and the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 8 February at 12 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's positions on the European Commission's two draft regulations on fiscal surveillance and the strengthening of the deficit procedure in the euro area and on the Green Paper on Stability Bonds to the European Commission on 19 January and appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulations and the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 26 January at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the White Paper "Overview and Estonia's views on the proposals to strengthen the euro" presented on 19 January 2004 and appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the White Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 26 January at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 20 January, Estonia presented its views on the European Union's package of measures on airports to the European Union's Affairs Committee and appointed the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the package of measures. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 9 February at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 20 January Estonia submitted its views on the amendment of the Statute of the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed the Constitutional Committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 8 February at 12 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 92 delegates registered as present, missing 9. Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda will be on your desks and I will vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. We're going to the Monday agenda, which means we're going to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U6	The first question is the question of the closure of the post offices submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, Ester Tuiksoo and Tarmo Tamme last November (No 69). Please, colleague Heimar Lenk, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Our question is made to Mr Andrus Ansip, Prime Minister, on the subject of the extinction of Estonian villages. This process must be pretty hard to slow down, let alone stop. I quote a few paragraphs from a letter from my constituents written by the residents of the municipality of Taheva in Valgamaa and the residents of the municipality of Haanja in Võrumaa. And they write like that. They are deeply concerned about the future of their home and rural areas. In Estonia, according to these people, there is a process in progress where national politics lead to the extinction of life in the villages of the periphery. The state company Eesti Post has already closed a hundred post offices and this was the end of the process, written by these villagers. Now it is planned to close post offices in Ruusmäe village in Võrumaa and in Koikküla in Valgamaa. The villagers themselves say that they are desperate because this decision is even more detrimental to the quality of their lives. Next, one quote: 'Both villages have post offices in an area where there is no alternative to post office services. There are no ATMs in the villages, but no magazines for postage stamps in the store. In Koikküla, elementary school was closed two years ago! " Even elementary school is not in this village! Many pensioners still received their pension through the post office, and now they are no longer receiving it. Bus rides to centers are expensive and buses rarely move. There are a whole series of questions that I hope the Prime Minister will answer and maybe he'll generalise the situation a little bit. Because as the day goes on, the worse the situation is in the Estonian villages. And now they're closing the ATMs, as you've read in the papers of the last few days. Thanks, and we're hoping for some real answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U8	Please, Prime Minister, to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Why is the business interests of the state company Eesti Post preferred to the development of a particular rural area? ' The argument that the commercial interests of Eesti Post are preferred to the development of rural areas cannot be accepted. The reduction of the minimum number of post offices takes into account the maintenance of universal postal service availability in a given region. Since banking services, pension issuing services and some other services provided in post offices are not considered as mandatory universal postal services provided by Eesti Post, these services are not the basic criterion for the procedures for optimising the postal network necessary for the provision of the universal postal service. The current decisions to reduce the minimum number of post offices have also taken into account the assessment of individual municipalities. Information requests were sent to municipalities asking for an assessment of the availability of postal services and an opinion on the existence of alternative postal services, such as motto. Information was also received on the volume of universal postal service for closed post offices, which has been very limited. The provision of universal postal services entails considerable losses for Eesti Post, but the provision of universal postal services does not always have to be profitable. At the same time, there must also be a reasonable economic rationale. Where otherwise, for example by means of a slogan, the availability of the universal postal service is ensured, undue increases in the losses associated with the provision of the universal postal service shall be avoided. In the area of closed post offices, citizens' access to universal postal services has not deteriorated, as the Estonian Post must provide a universal postal service at the place of residence or residence of the person living more than five kilometres from the nearest post office in the rural area. This is what the Estonian Post does. The appointment of an Estonian Post employee is free of charge, only for the universal postal service. The universal postal service provided with a moto entry is equivalent to that offered at the post office and the person does not have to spend money travelling to the post office because he or she receives the service at his or her place of residence. It's a good opportunity for people who have a hard time moving. The second question: 'Why isn't another post office closure discussed with local authorities and residents? ' There is no reason to claim that the closure of post offices has not been discussed with local residents. I assume in this case we are talking about post offices in Ruusmäe and Koikküla. In August 2009, Eesti Post submitted an application to the Competition Authority to close the post offices of Ruusmäe and Koikküla. The Competition Authority asked Taheva and Haanja municipality for a position on the closure of post offices. Thus, the municipalities have been informed early on of the closure and have been given the opportunity to submit their comments. The managers of the post offices of Võru and Valga have been communicating with both the local authorities and explained the situation, as well as written communications concerning the closure of post offices have been sent to the municipalities. Question 3: 'Estonia Post has already closed a hundred post offices, which has resulted in a significant decline in the quality of life of the population in these regions. Why does the state not consider the impact of these serious steps on local life? ' The minimum requirements for the location of postal institutions and the availability of services have been confirmed by a decree of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The role of the Competition Authority is to ensure that the closure of post offices does not undermine the availability of the universal postal service and that the requirements imposed by the State on the provision of the service are met. Eesti Post must ensure that at least one post office is available in each municipality and for each rural municipality, the postal service is provided once a day six times a week. On the ground, the majority of the turnover of postal institutions is made up of sales of goods and postal services. The demand for letter and parcel services is minimal. I will give an example of the activities that took place in the post offices of Ruusmäe and Koikküla during an average month. Ruusmäe: withdrawal of cash, 15 times, purchase of stamps, 79 pieces, ordering of periodicals, 16 times. Koikküla: withdrawal of cash 10 times, purchase of brands 29 pieces, ordering of periodicals 7 times. This leads to the conclusion that the main reason for the closure of post offices is the low availability of the service in them. If only a few customers visit the post office daily, it is economically more appropriate to offer the same services in some other way. Question 4: "Has the government taken an interest in and measured the decline in quality of life in rural areas where post offices have already been closed in the past? ' Due to the closure of post offices, as far as I know, there has not been a loss of mail in any area, nor have we noticed a decline in quality of life due to the closure of post offices. I believe that jobs, as well as access to education, health and social services, are factors affecting quality of life. The quality of life of people is more affected by the services provided by the private sector than by the availability of a post office, such as the store, the public Internet, etc. It is in cooperation with the private sector that more than 60 franchise offices are open, which has led to an increase in the time spent on postal services in these regions in working days. Question 5: 'The majority of the local government leaders are against the closure of regional post offices. Why does the state not take into account the opinion of the local government managers when closing post offices? " Decisions to close post offices are made by Eesti Post on the basis of economic considerations. The argument that the opinion of local government leaders has not been taken into account is not true. The representatives of Eesti Post have communicated and will continue to communicate with local self-government leaders either by regular letter, e-mail or telephone. If necessary, meetings have been organised and will continue to be held. Many rural municipalities have understood the situation, worked together and proposed their own solutions. Question 6: "Have the government ever discussed the problems that arise on the ground after the closure of another post office? " The closure of post offices has not led to any major problems. Changes in each area are inevitably difficult to get used to at first, and in reality changes will be adopted over time. We have had a number of discussions on the availability of postal services and, as an alternative, we see a wider spread of franchise postal offices. The services they provide are considerably cheaper than today, as postal services are then offered alongside other services. The services of the franchise post office are provided by libraries, local village shops or village societies. Question 7: "What message would you send as Prime Minister to the people of Ruusmäe and Koikküla? ' The closure of post offices does not mean the end of postal services for the residents of Ruusmäe and Koikküla. This decision has been very difficult for Eesti Post, but all closures have been carefully and thoroughly calculated. After the closing of the post offices, the villagers will certainly have the opportunity to buy a letter stamp or order a periodical from a local mail carrier. Hopefully, Eesti Post will find a way to start a mail bus in the area. One of the options I consider to be the proposal of the Taheva Municipality Government to transfer post office services to the library of Koikküla. There are different options and the best solutions should be found in cooperation between the local government and Estonian Post.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U10	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now, please ask a question, Mr Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U11	Thank you. Prime Minister! Would you be so kind as to explain a little more about how it will be possible to create new jobs in the village once the infrastructure is broken? There's not even elementary school left in the village. What kind of young people should stay there to have jobs and people to work if there is nothing? There's nothing there but a store.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U12	If there's nothing but a store, then the question is, why is this store there if there's nothing else? I assume it doesn't contain anything at all. I don't think it's that bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U13	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! You said that if post offices were to be closed, people would also understand and discuss what kind of service is possible, how to bring the service closer to the people. You mentioned here the services of the people of Koikküla to be delivered to the library. Is there also a reply from Haanja municipality to the Estonian Post's address? You said that it was as if the Estonian Post had addressed Haanja Municipality Government on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U15	As far as I know, meetings have taken place, but I don't know the details of these meetings. It is quite common that the idea of closing a post office is unacceptable for the residents of the municipality. However, when 29 stamps are sold within a month, for example, and there have even been cases that seven stamps have been sold within a month, it is clear that such a post office is not economically viable to maintain. These orders, which are excellently prepared by the postman, have not come more than seven. Someone should cover the losses incurred by maintaining such a post office. Who's that? If the recipient of the universal postal service, this means an even more expensive letter stamp or other tariffs for postal services, with which we would simply kill out the postal service. However, by expanding the share capital itself, it would also be possible to cover expenditure from the state budget. However, it is known that, in the context of the European Union, it is unacceptable to cover expenditure as State aid in this way. And even if this aid was allowed, there is still a question of who to do it on whose account to take the money from. Retirement? Teachers' wages? You gotta take that money somewhere. In my opinion, it is unwise to keep up a post office where the activities are essentially not carried out, where the maximum number of persons is one person per day. It is reasonable to provide this postal service in a different way. These franchise post offices, which are open at petrol stations, shops and libraries, are perfectly capable of fulfilling the role of a closed post office and, in fact, provide a much better quality of service and for a longer period of time a day, as I have already noted. It has to be said that Estonia is not the maker of any unprecedented discovery on this issue, the exact same model is also used across the Gulf of Finland in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U16	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask my colleague Heimar Leng to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U17	Of course, the Prime Minister's answer was quite standard, all of which were old truths. I'm going to disprove some of them. In fact, these franchise post offices in shops and libraries, according to me, have not exactly begun to work and remain in work. If there are any, it would be very interesting to drive there, maybe the PM's office will send me an e-mail and I'll go see where a decent post office works. I've talked to store managers, no one wants to take this service because it doesn't pay off. Now, thanks to our Prime Minister's performance, I also understand why fire crews must be shut down. That's because there aren't enough fires. Only seven stamps had to be bought at a post office. I haven't heard an example like that, I don't think there's gonna be dozens of people going there. But if the seven really are to be shut down, there is no need! No fires, let's shut down the commandos! And I propose, Prime Minister, that we also consider reducing the ambulance service. There aren't so many sick anymore, no one dares to be sick, otherwise they'll be fired. Maybe save an ambulance? I do not think that this question makes any sense in this Chamber to be able to respond. In addition, a closed circle has emerged. We can't get any more jobs when the school's gone. There is only one very poor shop left in this village, which the seller cannot sustain, because only the few villagers who are left are really going there. Fortunately, there is a passageway there, the Valga-Võru road, where cars stop in front of this store and these people go there and it keeps it upstairs. But there can be no new jobs, Prime Minister, if the state does not create infrastructure. It is not possible to create new jobs where nothing is really nothing! There are only a few apartment buildings from the Soviet era, empty windows yawn back, and then a few private houses. There's nothing to do. I do not want to promote the times of the German landlords or the previous Estonia, this Soviet Estonia, but when you talk to the villagers, history is remembered with good words, how proud life was there in Koikküla during the manor and during the previous Estonian era. There's nothing to do, life is tougher than this remote prime minister manages to embellish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U18	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U19	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigas, Kalev Kalso, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toomi on 23 November 2011 regarding the Estonian trade balance (No 71). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U20	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! On 15 November last year, the Prime Minister gave the Riigikogu an overview of the implementation of the European Union's policy, after which he also answered the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. In answering the question of Urmas Klaas, a member of the Riigikogu, he said that the Estonian economy is a typical economy of the exporting country. From this point of view, I asked the Prime Minister a question that sounded like this: 'I will remind you of some figures. Between 1991 and 2003, total agricultural production decreased more than twice in Estonia, and the result was that the foreign trade of Estonian agricultural products remained in deficit with EEK 45.2 billion between 1993 and 2009. (All figures were taken from the monograph "Estonian Agriculture in the XX century," 4. volume.) Estonia's total foreign trade remained in deficit with the same period of 66.4 billion kroons. Could you comment on your claim that our economy is an export economy, based on the fact that we have exports and imports minus exceeding four countries' annual budgets? ' The Prime Minister's reply was this: 'That is not the case. Return to the statistics, and you will soon make sure that your claim is wrong. ' According to the recommendation, I addressed the data on the website of Statistics Estonia, with the following result. When the lines of Table VKY02 "General exports and imports' (Annex 1) of Statistics Estonia's import and export balance for the period 1993-2003 is almost minus 12 billion kroons. In summing the lines in Table VK01 of Statistics Estonia (External Trade, Annex 1) we receive an import and export balance of less than EUR 14 billion for the period 2004-2010. Given inflation, it can be argued that 'Estonian agriculture in the 20th century' has given the right figures. In this regard, I and my colleagues have the following questions for Mr Prime Minister. One: "Is Statistics Estonia's data correct? ' The second question: 'Is it true that Estonia's foreign trade has always been in deficit since 1993? ' And the third, final question: 'In 1991-2003, total agricultural production in Estonia decreased more than twice, and the result was that in 1993-2009 Estonia's agricultural production remained in deficit with 45.2 billion kroons. Estonia's total foreign trade remained in deficit with the same period of 66.4 billion kroons. Could you comment on your statement on 15 October that our economy is an export economy, based on the fact that our exports and imports minus exceeds several national budgets? ' A total of nine members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U21	Thank you. I beg you to speak, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U22	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your question. Question number one: "Is Statistics Estonia's data correct? ' Statistics Estonia is an independent producer of national statistics on the methodology to be used. As Prime Minister, I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of Statistics Estonia's data. The second source of national statistics is Eesti Pank. Its balance of payments, including the current account figures, would also be quite useless to doubt. The second question: 'Is it true that Estonia's foreign trade has always been negative since 1993? ' Considering only goods, Estonia's annual balance of foreign trade has been in deficit since 1993 to date. On a quarterly basis, the external trade balance has only been positive in the fourth quarter of 2010 at around 31 million euros. The foreign trade deficit is characteristic of rapidly growing economies with high investment needs. This will be the case for some time in Estonia. However, Estonia's trade deficit has decreased recently. The foreign trade deficit below the previous EUR 250 million in 2010 was only in 1993, when it was 123 million. Last year, the foreign trade deficit in the first three quarters of 2011 was 173 million euros, which is over 100 million euros less than the figure in the same period in 2010 was 281 million euros. Taking also into account the export-import of services, Estonia's balance sheet of goods and services reached a surplus for the first time in 2009. The surplus even increased in 2010 and in the first three quarters of 2011. Eesti Pank will publish balance of payments statistics for the fourth quarter of last year on 9 March 2012. The third question: 'In 1991-2003 total agricultural production decreased more than twice in Estonia, and this resulted in Estonia's foreign trade in agricultural products being reduced by 45.2 billion kroons between 1993 and 2009. Estonia's total foreign trade remained in deficit with the same period of 66.4 billion kroons. Could you comment on your statement on 15 October that our economy is an export economy, based on the fact that our exports and imports minus exceeds several national budgets? ' The country's economic orientation towards exports is, however, assessed on the basis of the importance of exports in the economy. That's what I said on 15 November, answering Urmas Klaas' question. I quote: '... The volume of exports in Estonia as compared to the volume of gross domestic product amounts to 70-80%. Thus, the Estonian economy is a typical exporting country economy... ' Exports of goods and services compared to gross domestic product averaged 72% in Estonia between 1993 and 2010. This is the fifth result in the European Union; above is only Luxembourg, Ireland, Malta and Belgium. 75.1% is, for example, a Belgian figure. The European Union average was 35.5%, which is more than twice that of the so-called export intensity indicator of the Estonian economy. Once again, I assure the successor that Estonia's foreign trade minus has not exceeded the state budget in any year, not to mention its quadruple overshoot. The biggest deficit in exports and imports of goods and services compared to gross domestic product was in 1996, when this figure was 11%. Speaking only of exports and imports of goods, the biggest deficit was 22.3% in 1997. Both foreign trade and state budget volumes relate to transactions made during a certain period. It is not reasonable to compare the total balance of the 18-year foreign trade with the volume of the state budget for a few individual years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U23	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U24	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, No negotiations, I just wanted to express my joy that we are once again at the forefront and one of the best in Europe and the world at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U25	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister! You will also have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U26	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Good inquisitor! I think it would make sense to understand this mistake that you made last time and which you did even when you wrote this question. You place the exporting economy as the opposite of the importing economy, but the counterpart of the exporting economy is, according to general economic policy, an internal economy based on consumption. And exports are usually accompanied by imports, which are inseparable. The opposite of the export economy is by no means the import economy when we are talking about the exporting economy. The Estonian economy is an exporting economy and this is mainly due to the share of our export sector in gross domestic product. I hope I was able to explain to you the basic truths of the economy. Nor do I consider it reasonable to compare some long-term deficit or surplus with one specific year's budget. Everything can be compared if it has rational content. This deficit can be compared to the speed of light or my shoe size, but I don't think it's going to be a big help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U27	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U28	The next question is the questions submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luigas, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson, Viktor Vassilyev and Esther Tuiksoo on 23 November 2011 (No 72). Please, colleague Priit Toobal, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Exactly two months ago, together with 12 delegates from the Centre Party, I handed an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This is about limiting the tasks of rural elders. According to the law, the mayor represents the interests of the state in the county and takes care of its comprehensive and balanced development. The mayor is clearly a representative of the state, not of the power parties. In the last two years, however, the Government of the Republic has quickly started to disregard this principle. A situation has been created in which the Ministers of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party Government Union are not guided by law, but by the organisation of local elections in 2013 by the appointment of politicians of their party. Between 2009 and 2011, the government has appointed 12 rural elders, all of whom belong to either the Reform Party or the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. Such action does not in any way support the requirement for comprehensive and balanced development laid down by law. As the year goes on, rural governments and rural elders have had fewer assignments. For example, regional investment can play a leading role in their distribution. It is also said that family doctoral competitions go under county governments under the Ministry of Social Affairs, etc. The day-to-day national responsibilities will be reduced, and it seems to us that the parties are giving more party duties to the country's leaders. In this context, we have asked the Prime Minister a total of five questions and now we are waiting for the Prime Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U30	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, it's your turn to come to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U31	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'How much do you think it is in accordance with the law that the current appointment of county elders according to their membership in political parties is in accordance with the law? " The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 83 of the Government Act lay down the conditions and mechanism for the appointment of land elders. According to these laws, the mayor is free to have a view of the world, belong to non-profit organizations, including political parties. If you look back in time, there have been four rural elders all over Estonia in the last ten years, who have not been politically active, belonging to or entered a political party during their term of office or just after the end of their term of office, or who have gone to elections with their own list. Once the mayor has publicly defined his or her worldview, it will certainly be more transparent and honest than when an apparently independent official becomes actively involved in politics during or shortly after his or her term of office. The second question: 'How do you assess the situation where today's county elders have begun to assemble the compositions of rural governments according to party membership? ' I do not have such information that the compositions of rural governments are compiled on the basis of party membership. It is good practice to set up vacant posts in the public service through a public competition and I expect the county elders to fill vacant posts in the county government, in particular in accordance with the competences required for the post. Having a world view must not be an obstacle to this, but it would be discrimination. Question 3: 'You have made a promise as Prime Minister in 2007 that the reform of regional governance will be implemented in 2009. Why has the reform not started? 'The concept of a regional level of governance has not been drawn up. However, in the spring of 2011, the OECD report on more unified government, agreed on activities to ensure better policy coordination at both central and regional level. At regional level, the report prioritised the objective of supporting cooperation between local authorities in order to provide more efficient and high-quality public services by analysing the possibilities for the creation of action areas. The OECD report is public and accessible to everyone on the Government's website www.governance.ee. Question 4: 'Innar Mäesalu, the candidate for the Western County Elder, has told Western Life that the County Elder has a duty to apply to the Riigikogu. Does the law oblige county elders to apply for the Riigikogu? " There is no such obligation under the law, and no one can impose any such obligation on a rural elder. Rather, it is the information noise caused by inaccurate expression. Question 5: 'The term of office of an elder is five years, so that it is enough time to carry out the objectives set. How do you assess the situation of a mayor leaving his job 3.5 years after his appointment and going to Parliament? Does this not create a situation where the early departure of rural elders undermine the purposeful performance of the tasks assigned to him by his office, which results in a balanced local development? " The mayor is primarily the head of the county government. The county government is a multifunctional institution that passes on according to its work plans, development plans and strategies, and it is certainly not right to say that the work of the county government or the development of the county will stop in the immediate course of the county administration. If the mayor decides to resign before the end of his term of office, it is up to the government to find a new leader for the institution, who will continue the processes started there and, if necessary, set new targets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U32	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Question from colleague Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U33	Thank you. My question is very short. When will Hiiumaa get a new governor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U34	If the Mayor of Hiiumaa is dismissed, a new competition will be announced, the procedures prescribed by law will be passed, and just as all counties have received a rural governor, so will Hiiumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U35	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U36	Thank you. Prime Minister! I also have a brief question. What are the reasons why Hiiumaa's governor will be released?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U37	As far as I know, local government leaders have repeatedly approached the Minister for Regional Affairs. They have complained about insufficient cooperation with the governor of the country, and these complaints and probably other arguments have led the Minister of Regional Affairs to state that cooperation with the governor of the country is not working.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U38	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! For a long time, there has been talk of amending the law of the Government of the Republic, supplementing it, adjusting it according to the current situation. Has this process started? What country is this job, and when will it be finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U40	Changes to the Law of the Government of the Republic have been made. But in your question, there was no specific area or object on which you would expect changes in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U41	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Are the complaints of local self-government leaders sufficient grounds for dismissal or must there be any proven acts or omissions or such?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U43	The basis for the dismissal of a county governor is the provision of law, which states that if cooperation with the Minister of Regional Affairs does not work and this has lasted for more than a year, the governor will be dismissed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U44	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U45	Our last question is the question submitted by Riigikogu member Heimar Leng on 24 November 2011 concerning school reform and the involvement of interest groups (No 73). Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U46	I came here the second time on the remote and I'm standing here with two feelings. On the one hand, as I represent my electorate here, the people of South-East Estonia with their concerns, I bring them to this hall. On the other hand, I, like the Prime Minister, am concerned that it is difficult to answer these questions, or there is nothing to answer. All these answers recur from month to month and questions more or less in the same way. One day something will be closed in one village, the other day in another village. Yeah, I don't know how long this is gonna last. There's nothing to do, I'm sorry, but there's gonna be another question that's kind of sad. We're talking about the famous, maybe even now infamous Pühajärv school they're trying to lock up. These decisions were made last autumn. And even before that, these decisions have been made, after which the people have fought and have been able to prolong this school for a few months. Now things have gone so far that the story has come to trial. At the same time, we are talking about how we maintain Estonian education, how we want to make it better, how we love the Estonian village and how we love Estonia's rural life. But unfortunately, we do not see any positive steps on the part of the government. A number of questions have been asked about the Pühajärve School. They are based on concerns expressed by local residents. I'm just quoting one sentence here. According to Teet Reed, member of the school's board of trustees, it is understandable that the upper secondary school network needs to be reorganized, "but, as both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education have expressed, the basic schools close to home must be maintained and maintained." We're talking about closing down secondary schools, but in the case of Lake Pühajärv, it's basic school. Is there really going to be a new round? Are we also going to close down basic schools and start 6-grade or 4-grade schools in the country? It is embarrassing for Jakob Hurda, who said that one small nation must be great in its education and culture. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U47	Thank you! Please, Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U48	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: "How important do you consider that students be able to go to primary school near home? ' I consider this to be very important. The second question: 'Is the closure of primary schools part of the school reform, during which a number of upper secondary schools are planned to be closed? ' No, it's not. Question 3: "Why have things gone down in Otepää in such a way that an important decision in the council, which should serve the interests of the parish and its inhabitants, is made grossly against the will of the inhabitants and must be taken in the face of the protests of the great crowd? " § 154 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says that all local life issues are decided and organised by local governments acting independently under the law. Local authorities are free to make their decisions. The Prime Minister also respects the constitutional principle of the local government's discretionary powers, that is local autonomy, in which the government does not have to intervene. The Prime Minister does not supervise the activities and decisions of the local government. These are therefore questions that must be submitted to the Otepää Vallavolikogu or to the Otepää Municipality Government. Question 4: 'Why does Otepää have the power of the Reform Party under your leadership, so that the administration of the school does not hesitate to give explanations and calculations about the need to close the school? ' Six of the 19 members of the Volvavolikogu have indeed applied to the council as a representative of the Reform Party. The Reform Party is one of the coalition's parties, but not the only one. There are obviously shortcomings in this whole process, which I am not going to justify, but to remind you that there is also a central party in the coalition. Question 5: "Why do you think things in Estonia often go by excluding the local population when discussing important local issues and by making decisions behind the closed doors of the municipal offices? 'The Government of the Republic attaches importance to good practice in inclusion. It is important to hear the parties and to consider the arguments. As I have already said, there are clearly shortcomings in this process which I do not know and do not want to justify. Question 6: 'Why do we get the way it was in Otepää this time, that the proposals of the community and the school council to solve local problems are no longer taken into account at all and that the decision to close the school is taken by the director to know about the local newspaper? ' I believe, however, that the Otepää Vallavolikogu and the local government there have listened to the proposals made by the school board and made their decisions knowing them. It is a choice that I may not like either, but in a democratic country, Estonia and Estonia have the same possibilities and rights to change it as you do. If the parish authorities communicate with the inhabitants of their municipality only through a local newspaper, that does not honor them. Question 7: 'The Pühajärv Elementary School Board has already stated that it intends to sue the parish council's decision. Do you consider it natural that the fate of a community school in a Member State of the European Union must be decided by a court? " Everyone has the opportunity to go to court to defend their rights. If this is the position of the school's body of care that they want to defend their rights in this way, then this right must be respected. Estonia is the rule of law and the judgment is given in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. Question 8: Can't you see behind the rigid style of Otepää Vallavolikogu's decision-making behind the democratic crisis in managing local life? ' This is a bad example of disregarding local identity and local interests as a result of the merger of two rural municipalities, but one municipality or city and one council may not yet be able to talk about the democratic crisis throughout Estonia. There is more of this crisis in Tallinn than there is in the small municipality of Otepää.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U49	Thank you very much. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U50	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You've said somewhere that the merger between Otepää and the city was a failed step. Would you like to comment on that a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U51	I just made a comment. In my opinion, elementary school must be as close to the student as possible. It is a very strong position of the Reform Party that comprehensive school must be close to the student. For upper secondary school, the correct size of the class kits is important, which also ensures the quality of education, but one of the very important criteria for primary school is the proximity of the home. And now we can see that a very successful primary school, this Pühajärve school, is definitely intended to be closed, and that, despite the fact that graduates of this school can enter the best secondary schools in Estonia, it is then Nõo Gymnasium or Hugo Treffner Gymnasium. It is intended to be closed even though the President of the Republic has recognised the Pühajärve School one year as the most beautiful schoolhouse in Estonia. I do not think that this is a good example of how the merger of two rural municipalities will create synergies, where the identity of both parties will remain and be strengthened by accession. As far as I am aware of these problems, I can conclude from what I have concluded: just a larger one rolls over a smaller one. But I am not an impartial evaluator on this issue. I have made it known to the public before that the director of the Pühajärve School is the mother of my son-in-law, and I am therefore asking you not to push these estimates out of my hands any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U52	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U53	Thank you. I'm not gonna squeeze you out of estimates that you're having a hard time making. But I didn't understand one thing when you were performing right now. In the municipality of Otepää, is it necessary for the people to organize and picket demonstrations linked to the closure of the Pühajärve school, because the local population cannot get answers from either the council or the municipality government or the mayor? Does all this have to sound all over Estonia in the media and eventually they're going to go to court? Is there still a manifestation of the fatigue of democracy, or is it all very democratic that parents will not be able to answer until they have gone to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U54	Democratic is this whole procedure in the sense that the municipal council is democratically elected, and these unpleasant decisions of the majority of the people have been made by the people elected by the community council. Democratic is also the whole process in the sense that those who feel that their rights have been violated have the right to apply to the courts and stand up for their rights in the Republic of Estonia. It should be said that even in all the Member States of the Council of Europe, local authorities do not have the right to go to court against the state. In Estonia, the right to appeal to the court is wide enough and, I think, we should rather be proud, not ashamed of the fact that people, if they cannot otherwise defend their interests, can do so at least through the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U55	Please, colleague Priit onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U56	Thank you. Prime Minister! I have participated in a number of gatherings organised in connection with the events around the Pühajärve School and its reorganisation. You indicated that you should follow the good practice of inclusion, but I really dare say that there is a different understanding of this good practice of inclusion, or that some people who are carrying Otepää's chariot of power today have not heard of this practice. I have a question for you: do you not think that this inclusion process should be more specifically regulated so that it is still being used? We want an active citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U57	I can't imagine that the activities of the local parish council are very detailed. They must still be free to make decisions on the matters for which the law has given them competence. In a democratic process, those who do not take into account the will of the people are not usually elected. But I reminded the Centre Party that there is also a central party in the parish council, and I would also remind the representatives of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. There's also an IRL representative, and the mayor recently stepped out of the IRL. So I do not consider this to be such a party problem; rather, what is happening in the Otepää area is, in my opinion, a vivid example of the fact that no one expects electoral alliances to have any responsibility at all. What does the electoral alliance Otepää mean? Some are in the coalition, others in the opposition. Or the election alliance 'Men don't cry' or the election union of our Otepää?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U58	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! In fact, the Local Government Organisation Act states relatively clearly what are the functions of the municipality government, which are the functions of the local government council, etc. There, in my opinion, is a provision in § 3 in that it is essential to involve the people before making decisions. If the people agree to make one decision or another, it will be done. Otepää is known not only for the closure of the Pühajärve School but for another scandal recently exploded there. The parish government did not reply to a letter from the Environmental Board and a career was opened there. As Prime Minister, don't you think you should listen to your ministers? Should not ministers, within the limits of their competences, provide explanations that are still taking place, such as the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U60	It is recalled once again that the principle of local autonomy is a constitutional principle in the Republic of Estonia. And if the decision-making power is given to the local parish council, then it must remain there. I'm a long way from the idea that someone should always start over his shoulder fixing the mistakes that one or the other parish council does somewhere on the ground. These mistakes must be corrected by the people who chose the parish council that made the mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U61	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask my colleague, Heimar Leng, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, I sat in the Chamber, listened to the Prime Minister's answers and wondered if it was even worth asking questions in the Riigikogu and waiting two months for answers. Both the inquiries I made today, i.e. about the post offices and the school, were filed in November. It's a long time ago. Post offices have been shut down, and the school is barely breathing, and it's not like there's gonna be a real trial. That is how you really start to think about the principles of democracy. You can talk nicely about autonomy and local authority, etc. But if you look at the example of Pühajärv, these parents, these schoolchildren themselves, these teachers have turned to the Minister of Education, the chairman of the parish council, the parish council, the parish government, the mayor. They have turned to their ambassadors; they are spoken about by the entire Estonian media. And now it turns out that not even the Prime Minister can say anything comforting about this high-pitched remote control in Estonia. All he's saying is that there's a central party on the council. Yeah, I'm trying to reprimand her, her partymate, so she can still stand up for the kids. Now it turns out that the Prime Minister cannot influence Otepää's power, Otepää's government in any way. But how much we have heard at the same time criticism of Tallinn's government, both from ministers in the government and from here at the Riigikogu's pulpit! Tallinn is always doing the wrong thing! But there's nothing you can say about Otepää! Whether there is an illegal career or a school is shut down against the will of the residents, there is nothing that can be done, because the local government is superpowerful and superior. I just don't get it! But maybe I don't have to understand it, because it's so high and so great a democracy that you don't have in the world. Perhaps Estonia's democracy is the largest or among European countries somewhere among at least the first five democracies! Although I do not believe that if parents in any other European country protest against the detention of schools, the head of government will remain indifferent to their concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U63	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, you have an opportunity to perform.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U64	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu and Honourable Mr. Lenk! I've made my assessment of what's going on in Otepää. That, in my opinion, is absolutely clear. In today's reply, too, you have heard that I am in no way justifying this activity, and I am not doing so. But as you know in the example of Tallinn, the Prime Minister has never repaired or changed the foolishness that has been done in Tallinn with taxpayers' money. It is simply not the Prime Minister's responsibility. However, I have condemned these foolishnesses, and in this respect I am not going to change my behaviour. Let these foolishnesses, scruples occur in Otepää or Tallinn, or in my home town of Tartu, if there is anything wrong, I will go and slander. But the principle of local autonomy is a constitutional principle, and I will never allow myself to be subjected to any illegal sanctions, telephone rights, threats or mumblings that I do not allow myself. To that end, I respect our constitution too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U65	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-23_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, There is now an opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.06 p.m.
