ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of several of the men belonging to the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will refer an inquiry to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, entitled '8. the importance of March and the conversion into a public holiday'. In 1975, in the framework of the International Year of Women, the United Nations began to celebrate International Women's Day on 8 March. Two years later, in December 1977, the General Assembly adopted a resolution announcing the UN Day for Women's Rights and International Peace, which will be celebrated on a date chosen by each Member State. In the decision, the General Assembly mentioned two reasons for celebrating Women's Day: firstly, to recognise the fact that securing peace and social progress and guaranteeing human rights and fundamental freedoms require the active participation of women, secondly, to recognise the contribution that women have made to the consolidation of international peace and security. We have one question for the Minister of Justice: should the International Women's Day be turned into a public holiday in Estonia? Allow me, on behalf of the men of our group, to hand over this question with a small bouquet of flowers, which I will, of course, give to Laine, but symbolically to all the women working in the Riigikogu. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U3	Thank you so much for all your greetings. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Members of the Riigikogu Yana Toom, Viktor Vassilyev, Priit Toobal, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luigas, Deniss Borodich, Valeri Korb, Lembit Kaljuvee and Mikhail Stalnukhin have taken back the s. a the health requirements imposed on conscripts by the Minister for Defence, Mart Laar, on 25 January. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 72 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 29. Let's clarify the agenda. Today's third item is discussed by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U4	We go to the third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Benefits Act for Disabled Persons and the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let's get to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act amending the Social Benefits Act for Disabled Persons and the State Pension Insurance Act 159. Please take a stand and vote. There are 59 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U5	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let's get to the final vote. I am voting on the draft Act 146 on the amendment of the VAT Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U6	We are going to the third item on the agenda, which is the renegotiation of the university law, the law of the University of Applied Sciences and the law on the amendment of other laws that has not been proclaimed by the President of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste! Rait Maruste's presentation lasts up to 20 minutes, and the report of the Committee on Culture is also up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to speak for 20 minutes, but some explanations still have to be given. By decision No 59 of 27 February 2012, the President of the Republic did not declare in the Riigikogu the Act amending the University Act, the Law on University of Applied Sciences and other laws adopted on 9 February 2012. The President took the view that the Act was contrary to §§ 10, 11 and 13 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, § 38 (2) and § 87 (6). The Constitutional Commission discussed the veto of the President of the Republic on 6 March. a at the meeting. Ülle Madise, Legal Adviser to the President of the Republic, and Mall Gramberg and Heli Summer were invited to the meeting. The Commission had received a written position from the Ministry of Education and Research on the President's veto, which opposed the President's views. During the meeting Ülle Madise gave a longer overview of the content and arguments of the President's veto. Questions and discussion followed. During the debate it was pointed out that the President of the Republic, in his veto, does not dispute the concept, objectives or content of the aforementioned law and the accompanying acts. The form of legal regulation used in this law, or the level of legal regulation, has been challenged. To summarise very briefly, the President pointed out that some regulation should have been given at the level of the law, as required by the Constitution, not at the level of a government act, or regulation. In the President's view, some problems should also have been more clearly regulated, including a procedure for resolving potential disputes. Without going into detail here, I will explain that the activities and research of universities are governed by § 38 of the Constitution. Paragraph 1 of this section reads: "Science and art and their teachings are free. " This confirms the principle of freedom of teaching and study. However, paragraph 2 of the same section fixes the principle of autonomy and limitation of universities, stating (I quote here too): 'Universities and research institutions are autonomous within the limits prescribed by law. 'The president put emphasis on the word 'law'. Only the legislator, the Riigikogu, can adopt and establish laws in Estonia. However, in the law we adopted, i.e. the law amending the university law, the law amending the University of Applied Sciences and other laws, several regulations concerning the autonomy of the university were given to organise the executive power and could be imposed by regulation. The discussions pointed out that the autonomy of the university is not a clear-cut and precisely measurable category, on the basis of which it could be clearly stated which regulation violates the principle of autonomy and which regulation is not or is not yet tolerated and from which it is no longer tolerated and is going to be a breach of the principle of constitutional autonomy. Rather, it is necessary to strike a reasonable balance between the university's academic freedom and the public interest. It cannot be overlooked and noted that the law adopted also had delegation standards and some criteria for the implementation of this delegation. I refer here to the mission, objectives and tasks of the university and to the needs of the state. However, the President did not consider these criteria sufficient. He considered that the establishment of indicators for university funding and the delegation to the government of the basis for the allocation of operating grants exceeded this threshold and threatened the autonomy of the university. The President therefore believes that some of the regulations he mentioned should be moved from the regulations to the law. Maybe the president's right. At the same time, it is clear that the government must remain free enough to respond flexibly to society's needs and changing circumstances, to finance universities and to set certain conditions and objectives for them. Overregulation and resolving operational management issues at law level must also be avoided. However, in the light of the discussion and possible developments, the Commission considered it reasonable to take account of the President's objections and to find a satisfactory balance between the parties. It must be found by a commission of excellence, or the Committee on Culture. In view of the above, the Commission unanimously decided to support the President of the Republic's decision. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes to the Riigikogu not to support the adoption of the university law, the law of the University of Applied Sciences and the law amending other laws, which has not been proclaimed by the President of the Republic, as unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U8	Any questions for the waitress? Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The presentation was thorough and constructive. But could you be more specific about the arguments with which the Ministry of Education tried to disprove the president's claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U10	The text submitted by the Ministry of Education is quite long. This long explanation is on five or six pages, and it is quite difficult to sum it up with a few sentences. If the members of the Riigikogu wish to learn more about it, this material is public. I'm not going to give it to you in my own way and in my own way. I suggest you get acquainted with this text directly, because my reference may be inaccurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U11	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U12	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Given the context Mrs Ülle Madise pointed out, do you think the current system of national training orders is constitutional?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U13	This argument was not raised in the request of the President of the Republic. That is why it is difficult for me to comment on. I cannot accept such a mandate to assess its constitutionality or non-constitutionality in front of this Chamber. It's a separate subject. This was not contested.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U14	Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U15	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Reading the president's reasoning as to why he did not declare the law, I had the impression that if the Government of the Republic confirmed some parameters for the further work of public universities, autonomy would be less damaging or almost unhindered if the possibility of raising private money was retained. Then it would be partial and it would probably be debatable where this balance is, whether the latch is so strong or not. What impression did you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U16	Good questioner! I didn't count that dimension from the President of the Republic's argumentation. When reading the text as a lawyer, it was clear that the concern about the constitutional plan was only that autonomy could only be limited by legislation at the level of the law. If this has been done with legislation at law level, autonomy may be limited and there is no interference. The President's argument was that we left out a lot of regulations from the law, handed them over to the government, and the critical limit on how much the government could regulate and prescribe is, in the President's view, exceeded. If these regulations had been on the level of the law, the President would have thought it would have been okay. I repeat: the President did not contest the proposed draft concept, content or solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U17	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U18	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question complements the subject initiated by Peep Aru. Indeed, there was a reference to this law, but Mrs Madise or anyone else had written about such a sentence that this draft essentially prohibits private funding in higher education. I couldn't read it from anywhere in this bill. How do you comment on this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U19	I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, or specialised committee. I would rather leave this commentation and finding substantive solutions to the Committee on Culture. I looked at this whole solution from the point of view of the Constitution. On the basis of an estimate, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U20	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rait Maruse! I invite the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U21	Madam Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The decision of the President of the Republic to exclude the Act amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws was discussed by the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu at its two sittings on Monday and Tuesday this week. Ülle Madise, Legal Advisor to the President of the Republic, Ms Suvi, President's Internal Advisor to the meeting, Mall Gramberg, official of the Office of the President of the Republic, was also present, but we had also asked Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Ministry of Higher Education, Mart Laidmets, and Ministry's lawyer Sille Uusna. I would like to say in advance that on Monday, the Commission, with the participation of these guests, discussed the decision of the President of the Republic, and on Tuesday we ourselves made a consensual decision in the Committee on Culture that we are willing to reopen the debate, in other words, we do not agree with the adoption of the law in its unaltered state. So whoever supports the decision of the Committee on Culture should press the red key in this Chamber today. The three main points against which the President of the Republic was opposed were also discussed quite thoroughly at the Commission meeting. Mr Rait Maruste gave a very thorough legal assessment of these three points and presented his views. More or less in this way, discussions took place at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. On the more substantive side, the first point was the restriction of university autonomy under the law. Indeed, the President says that the basics of funding or, rather, the indicators currently proposed in the government regulation, on the basis of which performance contracts with universities are concluded, should not be laid down in a regulation, but should be raised to the level of the law, because this is a restriction on university autonomy. It is possible to limit itself, but this should indeed be done by a higher level of legislation, i.e. by law, not by regulation. It is clear from this that the President of the Republic does not at all dispute the substantive changes proposed or undertaken by that law, but draws attention to legal nuances. After all, debates and debates about where more precise criteria for university funding need to be defined took place in this large hall at all readings and, of course, they also took place at the meetings of the Committee on Culture. It won the view that, as circumstances change quite quickly, the needs of the labour market change, the global context changes, so that a more flexible response could be possible in such a situation, the definition of such criteria could be in a government regulation in order not to make the law maybe too rigid. In our discussions on Monday, there was also the question of how to find optimism so that everything was necessary in the law, but at the same time the law would not become too rigid and maybe harassing universities. We discussed how to find the optimum in a situation where there are six public universities, and we have also unambiguously opened up private universities' access to contracts and given the opportunity to ask for funding for all curricula as well as for some individual curricula. When I asked the President's legal adviser in a simplified way whether his proposal meant that what is in the draft regulation should be incorporated into the law, the answer was yes. So although one can argue either way or the other, in principle, in the Committee on Culture, we agreed with our decision that the law could be made more precise in this way. The second point concerned the legitimate expectation of taking examinations and calculations while on academic leave. Once again, we note that the President, in the slightest, does not dispute the regulation of academic leave, but his proposal is that the regulation should take effect later instead of what is currently planned. To my question that, if it were to apply on 1 September 2013, whether the new law would essentially regulate the situation of students who would be matriculated from 1 September 2013, the answer was yes. In principle, we can approach this issue in such a way that since the general principles of the law come into force from 1 September, this may also be the case with academic leave. Now I am talking about the clarity and adequacy of the regulation of the requirement for reimbursement of study costs. Here too, we had a serious dispute with the President's legal adviser. The question is, in a simple way, that it is argued that it would be understood that the requirement for reimbursement of study costs arises at the end of the nominal period. The legislator has not fixed it in this way. We clearly have the term'semester' here, we also have this definition. We have repeatedly said that when we meet students, the requirement for reimbursement of study expenses is semester-based, it is not academic year-based, it is more flexible and the calculation is cumulative by semester. For us, this wording is quite clear, but if it is found that it needs to be made even clearer, then we see no reason to argue. Peep Aru asked about private money. This issue was also on the agenda at the Commission meeting. This was discussed from this point of view, whether it was not in essence that universities were prohibited from levying tuition fees for students studying on the basis of Estonian-language curricula. As universities really become more dependent on the state budget, how will it be, whether or not universities are left without private money? We had it on the agenda in the key to introducing tuition fees. Ülle Madise's answer was that the President does not challenge the financing system itself. I believe that this has been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U22	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! So, in short, what is your Commission's guideline or proposal for today's vote, how should we do or what should we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U24	At its meeting on Tuesday, the Committee on Culture decided by consensus that we would support the new debate on this law, i.e. we would not support the adoption without change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U25	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U26	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! When we prepared this law, quite often there were dissatisfied claims that this law should be more based on one target group or another, such as only students or only universities. This law seems to have become very balanced and considerate of all interest groups. In recent days, a number of speeches have stressed that it is now necessary to reform this law and to take a very thorough look at the foundations of it. Please specify whether the Committee on Culture considered it necessary to reopen any wider debate or whether the Commission is dealing precisely with the arguments made by the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U27	Thank you! We did not so precisely determine whether we are dealing narrowly or more widely. My colleague Jaak Allik did indeed say on Tuesday at the meeting of the Commission, and I quote him from memory, that the public training order system is perhaps not the most successful in legal terms at the moment, so that the funding system should be looked at more widely. But I don't have a record of this meeting right now. So there were such comments, but my personal view is that we could stay within the limits of the points that the President pointed out, because, indeed, the Head of State did not challenge the concept of the draft, the content of the reform as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-08_U28	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Urmas Glass! Before we enter into negotiations, let me make it clear that negotiations will only take place on the motives of the President of the Republic for not declaring the law. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We must put the adoption of the law to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the re-adoption of the university law, the law of the University of Applied Sciences and other laws sent back to the Riigikogu by the President of the Republic, unchanged. Please take a stand and vote. No votes in favour, 65 members of the Riigikogu opposed, no abstentions. The adoption of the law in its unaltered state was not supported. Since the Riigikogu did not adopt the law again unchanged, I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws. March 22nd at 6 p.m. The Steering Committee is the Committee on Culture. Today's trial is over. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 10.37 a.m.
