ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 17th working week. Good fellows! Do you want to hand over drafts and inquiries? Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U2	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of questioning Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on behalf of the seven members of the Central Party Group, which concerns the results of the census. I'm not gonna explain for a long time why we're worried after we get to know them. We understand that some technical questions are still unanswered, but probably by autumn, when it is time to answer the question, there is clarity. So hopefully we will also get an answer to the technical questions. For example, we are interested in the fact that the population has decreased by 22000 in terms of human emigration and by 32,000 because we have negative incomes. But as the total population has decreased by 76000, it remains unclear where 22000 Estonian inhabitants remain. The main question is, of course, what measures the Government of the Republic intends to take in order to slow the draining of the inhabitants of Estonian counties. I'll discuss the inquiry and wait for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the pleasure of getting together this morning is, of course, great, but maybe a little quieter? Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! The Economic Commission initiates a draft law supplementing § 90 of the Electronic Communications Act, the most important aim of which is to help 75000 families and nearly 120,000 people who watch television via free distribution. The most important sentence of the draft act states that the free access television service provider has the right to charge the cable operator for the retransmission of the television programmes. Our aim is to resolve the many years of dispute between private television channels and cable operators, to establish these legal relationships and thus to help people who are unable to access cable or who, for various reasons, cannot use more modern technological means. We hope that the Riigikogu will support our initiative and we will be able to carry out the first reading next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U5	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the recent changes in the composition of the Riigikogu, the Committee on the Environment proposes to adopt a new decision of the Riigikogu on the removal of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of a new member. That's the draft I'm handing over to the manager right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now I'll give you the messages. On Wednesday, 6 June, the following members of the government will take part in Question Time: Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated on 4 June and appointed it as the commission of directors of the Finance Commission. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Yesterday, members of the Riigikogu formed an Estonian-African parliamentary group. And now, ladies and gentlemen, please, let's do the presence check! There are 80 parliamentarians registered, no 21. Now, please, let's clarify the agenda. On today's fourth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and related other laws, the Member of the Riigikogu Jaak Allik will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the continuation of the second reading of the draft Act 164 amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like a presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I am also telling you about the draft law 164, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. On 29 May, the second reading of this draft was interrupted at the initiative of the initiator. Within one day, new amendments could be tabled. Five of them were received, and the next day, on 31 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed these proposals at its meeting. The most important part of the changes concerns the discretion of the State. First, the state was deprived of the right to consider whether to return citizenship to the person to whom Estonian citizenship was wrongly given and then taken away. The right of reason is left to that person: he can decide whether he wants to become an Estonian citizen or not. The right of reason remains with the state only in cases where citizenship cannot be returned for valid reasons, for example when false documents were submitted to the government institution or when the person does not comply with Estonian law. In such a case, the officials shall decide whether or not the public interest outweighs the question of granting citizenship to a person. In addition, the Commission supported the proposal to supplement the list of State fees to be compensated. Together with the surrender of citizenship, the person receives back the state fee which he/she has in the meantime paid for, for example, the examination of the application for a residence permit or the issue of an alien's passport. The amendment by the Centre Party Group, according to which a person who has received Estonian citizenship by birth should not necessarily give up the citizenship of another country, did not find the Commission's support. The debate concluded that double citizenship issues are important, but do not need to be resolved within the framework of this draft. The consensus proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 4 June and to conclude the second reading. If the second reading is completed, the third reading should be set at 12 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U10	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I was in this debate myself, but I still don't understand one thing, so why don't you help me out of it? At what point do we consider a person to be a citizen: from the moment when he was first granted citizenship, or from when we gave him his passport again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U12	Thank you for your question. I so understand that when a person is granted citizenship, he becomes a citizen of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U13	Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U14	I'm sorry, but you didn't answer my question. I got citizenship in 1995. During the inspection, I was found to have received this official's error, and my citizenship was taken away from me. Now I'm told to withdraw Estonian citizenship. Am I a citizen in the eyes of the Estonian state since 1995 or since 2012? And if I've been doing this since 2012, what about my children who were born before that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U15	Thank you for your question. In particular, I cannot answer about you, but in the context of this law, the person will be able to return his or her citizenship on the day of his or her return, i.e. not afterwards. This is so set out because, as I understood, otherwise a person might have problems. In the meantime, he was a national of another country and could, for example, conclude contracts with that other country's passport that would be null and void if such an approach were taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U16	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I will continue on the subject of the previous question. You didn't answer what happened to the kids. I'm asking you, what about the kids? Are they citizens of the Republic of Estonia because they were born after their mother was granted citizenship, or are they stateless children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U18	Thank you for your question. If someone receives citizenship for this reason, these children will remain an Estonian citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U19	Thank you. Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'll start by answering Yana Toom's question. Andrei was essentially right, but for the sake of clarity, I would add that a person is to be considered a citizen again, depending on the basis on which his original nationality was granted. If a person was a citizen from the beginning, or from birth, after the entry into force of that law, he or she shall be deemed to have acquired citizenship by birth. And the second option to whom it relates has been married since they got married. Naturalisation citizens are not affected by this law; they are not affected by the date of entry into force of this law. They are citizens from the day on which the grounds for citizenship arose. In general, if we go to the negotiations, the initiators are satisfied with the compromise text born during the draft procedure. I wasn't going to give a speech today, but since I was quite critical of the points last time, from the point of view of the verbatim, I have to explain my mid-term change of mind. When the draft was in this Chamber for the first time at second reading, I drew attention to two main aspects. The first concerned the discretion of the Police and Border Guard Board, which Andrei spoke about. In the original text last time, the Police and Border Guard Board was, in principle, competent to decide on the grounds for granting or not granting citizenship. We did not consider this to be right in principle, because the Citizenship Act is a constitutional law and the conditions of a matter as important as the granting of citizenship must not, in our view, be allowed to be decided by the officials of the executive agency. It is now in order and the discretion has been reversed. In general, the Police and Border Guard Board considers all these people to be citizens, except in cases where there are certain exclusionary circumstances which are also enshrined in the law. The right of consideration shall be exercised when it is necessary to decide whether or not there is any exclusion. The second point concerned the reimbursement of costs. In principle, it was said that under the State Liability Act, a person will in any case be able to recover these compulsory state fees. However, we did not consider this to be sufficient because people in general do not know about matters such as the State Liability Act. Now there is also a point of reimbursement in the law. One of our amendments concerned the idea of misreporting, whether or not a person has consciously submitted them. We did not quite agree on this issue, but a certain compromise text was written and we hope that ultimately the Police and Border Guard Board will rely on the interests of the individual in specific cases and that the absence of the text of our amendment from there will not directly cause damage to any person. As regards the amendments proposed by the Centre Party, the representative of the Centre Party, Yana Toom, drew attention to a very important problem concerning double citizenship. Since we have two types of citizenship with birth and other means of obtaining it, there may be a problem that one can be taken away from one, but not the other. The Commission's view is that this problem cannot be resolved in the current draft. If we were to resolve this, it would take at least another six months for this law to be passed, and I think that the 100 plus 30 people who are already stateless or may be deprived of it will not suffer this six months' waiting. So this should be solved separately. So, in conclusion, we are satisfied with this text, which is currently on this table, and we are in favour of adopting it as a law as early as next week. I thank the Commission for its work and the Commission's officials for helping us in this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U21	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U22	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad this bill finally got here. Only six months have passed since I sent the first letter to Minister Vaher, and I received the answer that everything is legitimate. I'm glad common sense has won, after all! But here are two nuances to which I would like to draw your attention, and especially your attention, honourable members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because you have the opportunity to improve this regulation. Firstly, Mr Ossinovski's approach is completely wrong that we are trying to solve a problem with our proposal for improvement. We tried not to cause a problem with the proposed amendment because § 28 of the Citizenship Act currently in force states very clearly that the Estonian citizen at birth cannot be deprived of the citizenship of another country against his or her will. It's forbidden by law. We propose to amend the same law so that it provides that if a person has been deprived of his or her nationality by reason of a state's error, he or she must renounce the citizenship of another country. This is the problem that we are currently creating with this amendment. I have no objection to initiating a discussion about whether double citizenship in Estonia is allowed or not, but this cannot be decided in passing. This must be a political decision, and we must understand what we are doing. It's not like we're accidentally accepting some sort of amendment, and then we're faced with the fact that the door is open. That's one thing. The second problem concerns what I was talking about with Mr Korobenik and which my opponent obviously did not understand. You see, today's bill states that a person is considered to be a citizen of the Republic of Estonia on the basis of which he has ever acquired citizenship and from the moment he or she expressed his or her wish to do so. I was an Estonian citizen at birth, but at some point I lost an Estonian passport because of an official's mistake. During this interim period, I had children, and these children are not, by birth, citizens of Estonia, because at the time of their birth I was not a citizen. This is a problem for perhaps two, three, four or five people, but it is a problem and I call on you, good members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please remember this when you prepare this draft for third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U23	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee, has proposed that this be taken into account in substance. Amendment 2 from the Estonian Centre Party Group, to be partially taken into account. Amendment 3 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee proposes that this be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, to be taken into account in substance. Amendment 5 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U24	The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Family Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair's member of the Legal Affairs Committee, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U25	Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft for a second reading on 28 May. All members of the Commission took part in the meeting; Jaak Allik was present as an alternate member of Neeme Suur. As guests, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, Andra Olm, Adviser to the same department, and Madis Timpson, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, were invited to the meeting. For those who do not remember, I would remind you that the content of the draft is the amendment of the family law, which makes the accountability of guardians a little less bureaucratic. There will be no loss of control over all expenditure, but guardians will no longer have to report current expenditures at the level of daily food receipts. Two amendments were proposed to amend this draft law. The first of these was made by Riigikogu member Jaak Allik. His amendment was that the close relatives of the guardians have the right to have access to these reports and to request that the documents proving the expenditure be submitted to the court. Jaak Allik's concern was reflected in a concrete example in Narva city, where guardianship is allegedly not only borne by the interests of guardianship, but has become a bit like business or, let's say, a mass activity, so that one guardian may have 30 patronage. It also had concrete examples that the interests of the guardians had not been sufficiently taken into account. The Commission discussed this amendment seriously, at length and in substance and, as has been said, Jaak himself was present. However, we came to the conclusion that this particular example of the city of Narva may not reflect the situation in the entire Republic of Estonia; rather, the problem is there and this problem needs to be resolved somehow. In general, there was the idea in the Commission that close relatives who have given up their duties as guardians could also keep a little eye on them. However, if they have a concern in their heart, they could seek to become their own guardian and thus control the use of money. That way, the interests of the guardians would be protected. The whole point of the bill is that the interests of both guardians and guardians are protected so that guardians are not unnecessarily burdened with collecting any receipts. This first amendment by Mr Allik was not supported by the Commission. But, as has been said, the debate was substantive and the existence of a problem in this particular municipality we acknowledged. The second amendment was made by the Committee on Legal Affairs itself. This was about § 214 of the Family Act, which, according to the current version, gives custody to parents. Parental custody shall be deemed to belong to parents in accordance with paragraph 1 jointly or to one parent in accordance with paragraph 3. Within two years of the entry into force of this Act, parents may submit a joint application to the civil status officer in person to terminate joint custody and to grant parental custody to a single parent or to grant custody to parents jointly. This relatively complex sentence should actually focus on the words 'within two years'. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposed extending this period to three years. Thus, this law, which has come into force on 1 January 2011, would apply for three years instead of two years, and this is a so-called transitional period during which parents can take such steps. This amendment was voted through, fully taken into account and supported by consensus. As a result of its vote, the Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session today, which was a consensual decision and to propose that the second reading be stopped. The latter had 8 Commission members, 0 against and 1 abstention. In the event that the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes to send the draft to the third reading on 13 June. It was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U26	Thank you. You have a number of questions. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U27	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If I want to raise funds for my daughter to secure her future, and I want not only to transfer money to the current account, but to buy her whatever shares, bonds, maybe real estate, I have to go to court or city hall to do it. In any case, I do not have the capacity to do so. At the same time, it is quite certain that no one cares more about my daughter's future than me and, of course, her mother. In this sense, it seems to me that this is a completely inappropriate restriction in family law, and I wonder whether you discussed this, so that parents who want to raise funds for their children's future should not go to anyone for permission to make these transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U28	Thank you, good penguin. A very good and meaningful question! This was not discussed by the Commission at this second reading session, but at the first reading session this issue was raised. I asked that question myself. I am just as concerned as you are about the possibility for parents to make transactions with their children's assets today is, in my opinion, a little too limited or, let's say, completely unbalanced. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice who participated in the hearing admitted that the problem was likely to exist. The Ministry of Justice will discuss this on a slightly broader scale and hopes to submit a draft on these points to the Riigikogu in the autumn. The same is true of the relatively logical rights and obligations of both parents and guardians with regard to property. There is one such funny point in today's context where there is the idea that the legislator should not regulate everything in too detail. Namely, you must not do anything with your child's assets unless you wish to acquire bonds from European Union countries. This can be done because they are considered risk-free. Since this law came into force, we know for ourselves how risk-free we consider bonds from different countries to be today. This is actually about legislative practice, referring to the fact that we do not have to go into specifics, details. It is better to create legislation that is beautifully open and has a longer life span. But thank you for a good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U29	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question may not be a good one, but the problem is upstairs. In the committee, we discussed this so-called wholesale demand quite thoroughly, and at least two members of the Riigikogu confirmed that this was a problem. At least I didn't realize we could have figured it out. The executive, in my opinion, was driving a complete mist and Jaak Allik's proposal, which may have made a difference, was also rejected. Did you understand whether a solution to this problem would be envisaged and, if so, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U31	Thank you, Kalle! The question was very good for you, although I couldn't find you in the hall at first, I couldn't even look back there. Now that we have a direct eye contact with you, it's easier to answer. In fact, neither the Commission nor the representatives of the Ministry of Justice have any good solution to offer. This is, on the one hand, a specific municipality, and, on the other hand, we discussed all these forms of control with a view to reducing the control burden and reducing the burden of collecting receipts. This proposal, which Jaak made, would, if taken into account, have made all the changes that we have planned to make easier the lives of guardians and guardians. At the same time, the thought of this could perhaps be a solution to the fact that the close relatives of the guardians themselves become guardians when their heart hurts because of the situation. This was allowed to be long-written in the relevant explanatory memorandum, how it might work, but the request of the Members of the Commission was that simple people also understand what they have to do when they see the problem. But we did not want to support this proposal to go back to collecting milk receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U32	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The draft states that the report shall indicate the average amount of daily maintenance costs per month. Are there any tips on how to calculate this mean? What items of expenditure are taken into account in the clearance of maintenance costs and how often can they be changed? Maybe there's some kind of mandate to give to a minister or government, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U34	Thank you. On the one hand, a good question, on the other hand, of course elementary mathematics. If you take the annual average, divide the annual costs by 12, you get the monthly average. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum also refers to the problem that there are very different patronage costs and needs that are so different that it is impossible to name a fixed average amount. It all depends on what is a particular person's problem, why he has a guardian at all, why he is patronizing. But in principle, the legislator's aim is not to burden the court with receipts that reflect the costs of everyday consumption. However, this does not mean that there will be no reporting. If there is a larger departure, such as a new chair or a special tool, these receipts must certainly be preserved to prove their expenses. I don't know if you got the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U35	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U36	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! At the moment, we are mainly talking about cases of misappropriation of money assigned to someone. In this regard, did you discuss in the Commission the subject that in a very large number of Estonian families, where both parents are unemployed, it tends to happen in such a way that many children are born and the family basically lives with child benefits. This is particularly characteristic of certain rural areas. The quality of these parents may not always be the best. Did you discuss, in the Commission at large, the misuse of grants awarded to someone? Above all, I am thinking about child benefits, because parents, in a sense, represent their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U37	The Commission did not directly discuss this issue, as it does not agree with this draft law in any way. The right question in itself, and I'm glad you're hurting your heart about it. But it is not within the framework of this draft. This is perhaps the subject of these discussions when it comes to children's benefits, how to pay them and how to distribute them so that they really reach the children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U38	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U39	Dear waitress, We are now supplementing the family law with the following sentence: 'As regards day-to-day maintenance expenditure, the report shall indicate the average monthly cost and shall not include any supporting documents. ' Please state clearly now to write the report of the Riigikogu: do these documents have to be held by the guardian or not? Does he have to keep them so that he can present them at the request of the court?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U40	Thank you, Jack! We also discussed in the Commission that, in principle, this legislative amendment does not mean that receipts do not have to exist. Surely these expenses must be documented somewhere and the receipts are still there. If anyone suspects that this money is being abused, the costs can be proved. But the proof doesn't just have to be receipts, there can be some explanation of whatever, as the explanatory memorandum to the bill says. It is also complicated that if the guardian lives with the guardian and is bought to eat in the family, you do not label the milk bottles that it is for the guardian and the rest of the family. The purpose of the legislative amendment is to reduce this complexity. But basically, that doesn't mean, under any circumstances, that control is lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U41	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Respect the waitress! I'm absolutely convinced that we're doing the right thing, but if we write in the law that the average monthly amount of money should be recorded in the report, then the monthly average is a mathematical term, and there's a question of how many months average it has to be. Do you share my understanding that there is more to think about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U43	In principle, I understand that these reports are presented once a year. So we're talking about a 12-month average and a 12-month distribution. However, we did not discuss this issue in the Commission. I really can't tell you how to solve this daily detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U44	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, congratulations on having this bill in the big hall today! But it is clear here from a number of questions that things are being confused, that there are very different topics being discussed, from child benefits to the purchase of securities. However, the problem arose from the fact that people - mothers and fathers and other family members - who care for adults - have been in a very humiliating position. They've had to collect all kinds of receipts to be presented to the court. There are different members of the family, there are strangers and there are municipalities, and no doubt there must be control. However, did the Committee on Legal Affairs also discuss the fact that today a law will be more or less repeated in the sense that family members no longer have to submit food bills to the court, for example, but according to the law on subsistence, they will be considered family members and the court will allow up to half the cost of the rent of the dwelling to be used for the guardian's pension. You didn't say there was another law of trouble, did you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U46	Thank you, Helmen, for a good question. You yourself helped to answer a little of the questions that were previously put in this Chamber, and that is how you put it together nicely. But unfortunately, on the other side of your question, the Commission did not touch at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U47	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. We're opening negotiations. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The law on the amendment of the family law, which we are discussing today, which relieves guardians of the need to submit to the court, together with the annual report, the purchase documents proving the costs of day-to-day maintenance, in other words, the purchase of milk, bread and other goods, are reasonable. One wonders how our predecessors, when they passed this law, came to the idea that it would be possible to introduce such a code of consumption and to sort and collect shopping cheques every day in a household where the guardian and guardian usually live together. Since the law was, of course, made at the Ministry of Justice, it shows that there are no gods sitting there either, but still people who may sometimes have quite little contact with real life. Unfortunately, the text amendment that we are discussing today, which is appropriate in the case of the general case described, is also affected by the same deficiency, but can, in special cases, open a broad way for abuse. By special case, I mean the practice of judicial and social work, for example, in Narva, where it has happened, that professional guardians associated with the city's social services have emerged, who have guardians for as many as dozens. If these people read in our amended law a sentence that there is no need to submit cheques proving daily expenses, they will, of course, understand unambiguously that they do not need to be owned or collected, which means that in order to distinguish which ward is what and whether anything is purchased, the examiner, who still remains a court, is not even a theoretical option. During the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the staff of both the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs stated that documents must still exist. I will be honest with you that I do not read it in the new text of the law on daily spending if they do not have to be presented, so why keep them? And that is why I also asked the rapporteur a question to which the answer is now, at least, fixed in the verbatim. Why has Narva switched to such a system? How does it function, and how is it controlled? To think positively, it is quite mysterious, and I admit that despite a four-month correspondence with the Ida-Viru County Court, I did not get any clear answer to that. In practice, the case that I encountered appeared to be the case that, at the request of the city's social services, the guardian's mother was deprived of the right of custody without having to discuss the matter at the hearing for 10 minutes, without even accepting documents for examination and without taking into account the opinion of the lawyer and medical expert, and was assigned to a person not known to the mother or daughter. This person began receiving a patronage pension and gave it to the mother for part use with a 10-euro debit card with a new and, of course, a new PIN code each month. After I intervened, the President of the Court spoke to an employee of his office and explained to him that a member of the Riigikogu had no right of access to the court file. The judge accused the guardian of not fulfilling his duties by placing money on a third person, in other words a mother who lives with the child every day. On my repeated question as to how the court would then supervise the guardian, who has several dozen guardians of the day-to-day care, the court simply failed to answer and recommended that the question be referred to the Social Security Office. This whole story was also reflected in the ETV 'Spectator' in November and as a result this guardian was placed in a nursing home, where his pension is now paid. But this is definitely not the only case. I have been approached by people complaining that they will not be given the guardian's reports to the court for inspection. They have asked for this to make sure that the purchases recorded in the reports have reached their close relatives or not. The court wrote to me that he did not see any legal basis on which close relatives could review the reports. I do not see any way that the control of the judicial staff can detect abuses. And why should relatives not, if they so wish, look at what a particular guardian has written in the report? On this basis, I tabled my amendment, according to which the sentence would be included in the law that the close relatives of the guardians have the right to access these reports and to request that the documents proving the expenditure be submitted to the court. Of course, this provision would only be relevant if the guardian was not a close relative, but a stranger, at least to whom it would be a signal that the cost records should still be kept. The Ministry of Justice opposed this by stating that a close relative is a vague concept, that showing reports to relatives is contrary to the law on the protection of personal data, and that, in case of doubt, any person can still apply to a court without an action for review of the activities of the guardian. But on what basis does the court check if there are no documents? And why could a person who has doubts about the activities of a guardian not have access to the report before recourse to the court and find confirmation of his suspicion or see that there is no basis for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U49	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U50	Yeah, 30 seconds more, please! It is simply hypocritical to talk about data protection in the case of guardianship for these close relatives. The suggestion to turn to the same judge who, to put it mildly, has appointed the guardian himself in unintelligible circumstances, and to believe him blindly, however, seems cynical. The statement in the explanatory memorandum that the concept of a close relative is vague and that close relatives may have conflicting interests is not relevant in this context, as the proposals I have put forward do not give immediate relatives rights other than the right of access to the guardian's statement of expenditure to the court and, if doubts persist, to require documents to be submitted not to themselves but to the court. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support my amendment. As you understand, it is not a party vote or a political vote, it is simply a move that may make one possible abuse more difficult and one channel of corruption a little narrower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U51	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 from Riigikogu member Jaak Allik, the proposal of the commission is to disregard this. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U52	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U53	We will vote on this amendment. Let's get ready for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the first 214 amendments tabled by Riigikogu member Jaak Allik. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 35 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Steering Committee proposes that this be fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U54	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this amendment is to prevent the misuse of residence permits issued in Estonia. The draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic and we had it at first reading on 9 May. The Minister of the Interior was then asked a number of questions, as well as during the discussion at first reading in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The questions concerned changes to the basis for issuing residence permits, the period of validity of residence permits, the size of the salary claim and many other issues. Apparently, the questions about the draft have been answered exhaustively by the deadline for the submission of amendments by 23 May to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, no proposals were received from the members of the Riigikogu. The Commission had previously decided to refer to the Committee of Inquiry on the determination of the facts relating to the granting of temporary residence permits to foreigners who had acted upon us in order to hear their views and suggestions on this draft. The Commission received a number of comments from the Service Economy Chamber and Finance Estonia. All these issues were discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 29 May. Ruth Annus, Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Tairi Tonkson, Adviser to the same department, also attended the discussion. I will first give an overview of the positions which the Committee of Inquiry has communicated to us. They did not see any substantive shortcomings in the draft and expressed their support for it, but they raised two problems. The first was that the problem of labour and study migration in Estonia as a whole should be addressed, not only in view of the objective of reducing the misuse of residence permits. Secondly, they raised the question of whether changes would also be needed in the role of national supervision in the law, for which there are no amendments to the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the view that it was undoubtedly necessary to address migration issues more widely than in this draft, but that legislative changes to prevent misuse should be implemented quickly. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior also confirmed that the work on migration problems and the Aliens Act is ongoing and the drafting of a more comprehensive draft is in the work plan of the Government of the Republic for the fourth quarter of 2013. As far as supervision is concerned, we did not find the need to change anything in the draft, but I would point out that the draft will give the Police and Border Guard Board the opportunity to make judgements based on ex ante controls. With regard to follow-up checks, the Ministry of the Interior has already taken steps and is likely to take further steps, as there is a need to check whether the activities of any of the entrepreneurs who have moved to Estonia, who have received a residence permit, comply with the conditions of the residence permit. Now a few words about the proposals of the Service Economy Chamber and Finance Estonia. They go quite far from the original objective of the draft law and therefore go beyond the problem of preventing and preventing misuse. For example, there is a proposal to untie the residence permit from living in Estonia. This is certainly a matter of a very fundamental nature. For its part, the Commission decided not to initiate any amendments. However, as the issue of residence permits has been acutely raised, the Commission maintained the view that we will probably return to this issue within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny in the first half of next year to get an overview of the implementation of the law, its functioning, as well as the future plans of the Ministry of the Interior and the positions of interested organisations. Mart Nutt, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, proposed that members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or a representative, should be members of the working groups set up by the Ministry of the Interior, which deal with the Aliens Act, should be able to develop amendments to it. That way, we'd be kept informed of what's going on. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the second reading today, and when the second reading is completed, the third reading of the draft will be carried out on the day after tomorrow, 7 June and then adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U56	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received and the lead committee's proposal was to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U57	The next, fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and related other laws. I ask for a speech chair to be presented by Riigikogu member Jaak Alliku!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The enforcement of the University Act and the Law amending other laws has legalised the reform of higher education, which will introduce free higher education for young people from autumn 2013 onwards. Some colleagues from the IRL have even said that we have joined the same country club as Finland and Sweden, which offer their citizens free higher education. At the same time, all political parties have repeatedly stressed that this reform must be accompanied by a new system of education grants. With the 210 that we are discussing today, the Social Democratic Party presents its vision of a system of education grants that would make it possible for the student to acquire higher education, indeed, free of charge. I would like to stress that the substantive part of our proposals has been developed by the youth organisation of our party, whose members recognise this problem in their own right. As the text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum are available to everyone, let me not dwell on the technical details of the draft, but I will try to clarify as easily as possible the basic principle of our vision and proposals. Even now, about half of students are studying and starting their studies in the coming autumn, free of charge, at so-called post-national training places. Completing the curriculum in a cumulative volume of at least 75%, i.e. collecting at least 22.5 of 30 credits per semester and completing their studies with one additional year's reserve in addition to the nominal duration, they will retain their place of residence free of charge. Such a system allows students to work alongside their studies in order to obtain means of subsistence. Studies show that about 60% of students do so. Most curricula are unable to reconcile continuous work and 100%-time learning. That is why, on average, our students take four years to complete their Bachelor's degree and seven years to complete their five-year curriculum. A hundred percent of students currently have about 25% of students who study and thus have a nominal duration of higher education. It can be assumed that most of them are so materially insured that they can really only devote themselves to learning. The authors of the currently legalized higher education reform have repeatedly confirmed that the aim of the changes is to focus students more closely on teaching. Minister Aaviksoo has expressed his hope that the average period of higher education will be 4 to 4.5 years. In order to ensure this, the reform provides for a 100% cumulative completion of the study programme for free learning per semester. Each point below 30 makes a free study place pay; these points must be paid for. With such a requirement, it is logical to assume that the state will also provide students with a material opportunity to truly learn with 100% commitment. This is precisely what has been built up in the Nordic countries. Calculations show that a student living away from home currently spends at least 400 euros per month on basic livelihoods. At present, the income side of the average student's budget consists of a possible parental allowance, which is, of course, very different, of a possible student loan of EUR 160 per month, taken by 2/3 of students and which is largely spent by young people in paid education to pay tuition fees, and of the service provided for the work done alongside their studies. About 16% receive education allowance in the form of a basic allowance of EUR 55 and with a travel allowance of up to EUR 83 per month. Since it is usually determined on the basis of academic success, it can be assumed that most of those who work cannot claim it. When moving to the new system, money must be found that significantly compensates for the student's salary in the budget, or it must be noted that higher education must also be paid for by students who do not do so today. That is the trap or paradox of the new system, which is why the Social Democrats fear that the permissible free higher education will actually mean paid higher education for more young people than today. The Minister of Finance Nearly dropped the paradox to describe the new system, that if half of the students studied for a fee before the reform, half of them would study for free after the reform. In order to prevent this from happening, it is clear that a significantly higher number of students than today's 15 to 16% would need student grants. We believe that they are needed by 50-60% of students. Only then could we hope that the proposed reform will achieve its objective. In order to ensure this, we have two options: either to establish a broad-based "need-based" support based on purely student income and students are seen as independent people, or to treat needs-based support in a narrower sense, especially by seeing support for students who do not receive home support in the form of extra money, free housing and food, and who themselves do not earn much extra. To reach the level of Scandinavian countries would then mean that, in addition to the need-based support in a narrower sense, a study grant based on learning outcomes would, of course, have to be introduced. This is the model we present to you. On the basis of bill 210, student grants will be introduced, which will be available during the first semester for all students up to 26 years of age at full time. From the next semester, only students who have completed 100% of the curriculum, i.e. collected at least 30 points, would receive this support. We have laid down a 26-year limit, given that eight years should, however, generally continue to complete bachelor's and master's studies. The so-called lifelong students are obviously unable to be supported in view of the financial situation of our country. On the other hand, if higher education is designed to be acquired at an older age, money may have been collected in the past for this purpose. It is, of course, possible to create exceptions here, for example, with regard to medical science. The idea of including a quality requirement for this support has arisen during the discussion of the draft, by the way, only in the context of the whole current reform, and to pay this support only to good and very good grades of learning. In essence, it would be a restoration of the arrangements for the payment of the scholarship of its own time, and the older half of its life in this hall should remember the time when the scholarship was usually paid only for four and five. In any case, this would mean that if 30 points were not completed, there would be a loss of scholarship in addition to the tuition fee. This would, in our view, be an important incentive to really focus on maximum learning. The aid shall be fixed twice a year for a total period of 10 months. In addition to this grant, or scholarship, we also propose the introduction of a more narrow sense of need-based learning allowance for students whose household's average monthly income does not exceed the average income ceiling established by the state budget for the need-based education allowance. A member of the student's household is considered to be his/her spouse or partner, his/her child, if the child's place of residence coincides with that of his/her parent's place of residence, and his/her parents and minor siblings, if the address details of their place of residence coincide with the address details of the student's place of residence, in other words, if the student lives with his/her parents. In our opinion, real cohabitation is the basic criterion for taking into account the student's parents in a common household, because it means that the student spends considerably less money on housing and food than on living independently. If we do not introduce this criterion and we simply consider all students under the age of 26 into their parents' household, then we would be hurting students away from home. On the basis of what we are proposing, it would clearly be young people who go to higher education in their home town who have travelled from elsewhere to study there and whose parents have no legal obligation to support their adult children, which has also been highlighted by the Ministry of Justice. Fear here willful forgeries to show your place of residence, in our view there is no basis for this. The self-control of the future higher education community as one of the social groups will certainly begin to work, and it is on this basis that we propose that this support be granted monthly (except, of course, for the summer months) on the basis of the actual income of the previous month, actually on the basis of the so-called ex post factual material situation. This idea is probably rather unexpected and raises objections based on the question of how much bureaucracy a machine should manage such a system. On the contrary, we rely on the assumption that there is no need to create a particular control and decision-making machine at all. Moral self-esteem and an intra-group value system based on the notion that a future teacher, doctor, or lawyer will not lie should work. Paragraph 2 of the draft law gives the tax authority the right to disclose information containing tax confidentiality to an institution which manages the need-based education allowance system, but § 1 (10) states that, if it is established that a student was to be aware of his or her lack of entitlement to the need-based education allowance, he or she will lose the right to apply for the allowance and receive it both in the academic year in which he or she ceased to receive the grant and in the following academic year. I sincerely believe that the risk of both public shame and financial defeat is so great that a prospective young specialist will not lie in writing about his place of residence or the size of his or her own or his parents' income. Certainly, the requirement that it should be applied monthly and on the basis of the actual income just received also disciplines. Since students who themselves or their families are indeed in financial distress qualify for needs-based education allowance, such a young person does not lose the need to work. That is why we set the norm for these young people to complete the curriculum at 75%. However, if they succeed in studying so-called 100%, they would also receive a general education grant, or scholarship, in addition to the need-based education allowance, and these two together would perhaps also give these young people at least the opportunity to study without continuing to work. The question certainly arises as to how much the system we are offering could cost. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft text does not contain any figures. The ceiling for both the amount of education allowance and the amount of need-based education allowance, as well as the monthly income to be taken into consideration in order to obtain it, is established by the Riigikogu every year by the State Budget Act. By the way, he also does this in the case of the current education allowance. Thus, the statement made by the Prime Minister that we would like to make the study grant tenfold incomprehensible and merely show that the Prime Minister has not read the bill in question. I would also like to hope that, in today's debate, we will debate our proposed principle, not the amounts that Parliament allocates each year in accordance with public finances and the budgetary priorities of the government coalition. It is a question of how many students would qualify for this support. The Ministry of Education has assumed that in the future, about 60% of students will complete the curriculum at 100%. Up to 26 years of age are currently 65% of them. If we add a quality requirement that is currently lacking in the text, we will be able to get the result, according to the most optimistic estimates, that more than a third of students do not qualify for such support. By adding young people qualifying for the need-based education allowance, whose number is determined by the limit on income, of course, we can well talk about 50-60% support for students. In Finland, 60% of students receive support, while in other Nordic countries they receive even more support. At the moment, Estonia's school grant costs 8.8 million euros, which is about 5% of the public and private money going to higher education. In Finland, student benefits are 17.4%, 28.4% in Sweden, 32.2% in Denmark and 36.7% of all higher education costs in Norway. If the Riigikogu were to set the amount of education allowance on the basis of our draft, for example, EUR 100 and the amount of need-based education allowance of EUR 135, and if this were to be achieved by 50% of the student body, which in a few years' time would probably mean about 25000 young people, then the system we offer would cost a maximum of EUR 35.40 million per year, so about 20.25% of the total money now going to higher education. And it won't be until five years after the new system has completely gone over. In 2013, a maximum of EUR 6 million should be managed instead of the EUR 3.3 million requested in the Ministry's draft. But this is the order of magnitude of Scandinavia, although in a particular currency, our subsidies would still be down to them again. It would not be 10, but 2.5 times as much as Mr Aaviksoo of EUR 16 million. Ladies and gentlemen, The vote on today's draft, which I am sure could be clarified and improved at second reading, clearly shows who among us thinks and talks seriously about free higher education, but who, under the cover of this label, is only pursuing the propaganda of the IRL electoral promise, which, without a serious system of education grants, will only lead to a deterioration in access to higher education, particularly for less-insured families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission have other reasons to reject the draft besides the government's view that this bill would cost more than the initiators have calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U60	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U61	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! The Riigikogu has passed the first reading and stands in the Committee on Culture for a draft 13 tabled by the Social Democrats, which bears the same title as the draft we are debating today. This concerns the repayment of student loans to people who were in breach of the principle of legitimate expectations when this right was halved in 2009. The text we are discussing today does not address this problem, but what do you think the future fate of this draft will be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U62	Thank you. The government's opinion is undoubtedly very important. To claim that this bill would be considerably more expensive than the initiators have pointed out, the government certainly had to have some kind of calculation. So how much does the government think this bill is gonna cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U63	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Grief Damm, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U64	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. You have certainly studied 'comparable countries', i.e. Latvia and Lithuania. How much are the study grants there? We are now looking to Scandinavia with big eyes, but maybe we are giving our voters or the people of Estonia a bit of a false signal. We should still compare the comparables, maybe you have the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I repeat my question. Did the meetings of the Committee on Culture also include the topic of student grants in Latvia and Lithuania or, for example, Poland or the Czech Republic, in order to obtain any comparison between comparable ones? We can look at Scandinavia, dream of all sorts of things, but reality is reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U66	The government did not issue a specific bill, but in its reply he pointed out, for example, that if the initiator of the draft law considered that 26% of students could start receiving basic support, the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research thought that students who, according to the new so-called Free Higher Education Act, would start fulfilling the requirements and could thus claim at least 60% of the basic grant. This calculation already shows that the difference in the amount of basic aid is essentially two-and-a-half times the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U67	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U68	Since the Government's bill has already been discussed, he will remain in the process of 5:4 when he is submitted to the reading. What is the Commission's view of the advantages of a government bill over this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U69	In the Commission, we have only heard from representatives of the government, officials of the Ministry of Education and Research. We have not, in essence, discussed this draft or debated it very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U70	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U71	Thank you. Good waitress! The draft with the same title has passed the first reading in the Committee on Culture and is on the shelf. This draft 13 deals with the return of student loans to young people who were in breach of the principle of legitimate expectations and in 2009 the compensation for student loans was abolished. I recall that one of the coalition partners promised not only free higher education but also the restoration of the former situation here, at least during the elections and in debates. Can you explain why this bill has been standing in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture for over a year and has not come to second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U72	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission when it examined this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U73	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! You said the Committee on Culture would be happy to discuss the draft of the Socialists and the Government together. According to the Rules of Procedure, in order to be able to discuss these drafts together, the first reading of our draft should be completed today and then these drafts can be merged. How is such a plan consistent with your real plan to exclude this draft from the procedure today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U75	I wrote that the Commission made a decision. I think that the authors of bill 210 will be able to come back to these questions when we start discussing the draft proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U76	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U77	A good waitress, there's nothing to do, that's the question. I understand that the Commission has been discussing a number of issues, once also a draft government and other issues, but for some reason you do not want to provide answers to the questions that have been asked about them. That is why my question is as follows: what issues has not yet been discussed by the Commission in the context of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U78	Not many subjects were discussed. But the most important reasons why the Commission decided to reject it are, firstly, that, as I mentioned, there was a difference of opinion on basic support. With regard to the introduction of this student's salary, positions are contradictory and it is rather seen that those who have a real need should be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U79	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U80	Does the draft under discussion exclude support for those who have a real need for support, as you have just said?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U81	It does not rule out, but there were two important points in this draft. We do not consider it necessary to support those who can do without support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U82	No further questions. Thank you very much, Priit Onion! We're opening negotiations. Please, Lauri Luik, as representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U83	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Aadu Black Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The needs-based issue of education grants can be summarised briefly in a single sentence: a student in need of assistance must definitely receive a grant, but he must not become a dependant. In a large number of cases, the student is assisted at least during the first years of his or her studies by his or her family. With the higher education reform that we adopted here some time ago, we provide a capable student with a taxpayer-cost education, plus a considerable scholarship for exemplary learning and an additional scholarship if he is studying in a field of strategic importance for the country. There is also a clause in the Higher Education Reform Act that says that even if a student misses a credit, the university does not have to charge the student money. With sufficient motivation, which is undoubtedly a difficult socio-economic situation, the university can freely grant exemptions to students. In addition, all students have the opportunity to take student loans and more and more our students also have opportunities to apply for a private scholarship. In the end, students will, of course, go to work themselves at some point. Soon we will also see the need-based draft of study grants initiated by the Government of the Republic. The purpose of this draft is to assist students in real need of help, those whose socio-economic situation gives a real reason for it. Certainly, the purpose of the draft coming to this hall is not to spread the grants thinly to everyone. If we give everyone a little bit, we cannot help those who we really want to help and who actually need this help the most. After all, we are trying to help those whose socio-economic situation is the worst. The aim of the forthcoming draft is to help students in need of assistance to an even greater extent than is currently the case. But once again, if we follow the logic of this bill, 210, we cannot help students in need of help on a larger scale by spreading support to everyone in a thin layer. The 210 draft has been confused, as I pointed out in my question, with scholarships or so-called grants based on learning outcomes and socio-economic benefits. Let it be said once again that the system of scholarships has a framework in the Higher Education Reform Act that has already been adopted. It is precisely for this reason that the draft 210 will bring the situation back to confusion, that the Reform Party Group proposes to reject the draft 210 now and adopt, as soon as possible in the large Chamber, the draft needs-based study grants proposed by the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As I understand from your presentation, one topic in the Commission was that it is very difficult to obtain income or expenditure supporting documents to formalise income support. Currently, some students, however, are presented by student families, the formalisation is based on the cost documents submitted to the Social Security Office each month.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U86	Several countries visited the Commission's discussions, I do not remember exactly which ones. Indeed, as the previous speaker said, these systems are quite different. However, as shown by the outcome of the Commission's debate, the Commission's majority opinion was that, in this form, this draft law is beyond our country's control.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U87	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U88	One of the places for discussion in the draft was the administrative side. The processing of needs-based grants, which is certainly a large-scale system, has been put in place by the Ministry of Education and Research. The question was that it has also not been described how much the new system costs. However, your question was not specifically discussed in this form in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U89	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U90	We discussed this, but my proposal was that, since the government has submitted and, on one occasion in the Committee on Culture, there has been a need-based draft of subsidies, we would be happy to deal with these drafts together in the future. The 210 initiators of the draft act will be able to propose amendments within the framework of this new draft act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U91	Thank you, Mr. Grief Oak! I have not compared the Latvian and Lithuanian systems because, to my knowledge, there is no talk in Latvia and Lithuania about free higher education or about the transition to free higher education. Free higher education is spoken about in Scandinavia and the authors and supporters of the current idea of higher education reform have so far talked about the fact that we are entering the same system as Scandinavia. That's why I compared it to Scandinavia. Of course, we could compare ourselves with Latvia and Lithuania, but I would emphasise once again: we should not do two things at once, talk about free higher education and compare ourselves with Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U92	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U93	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Damm, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U94	Thank you, Mr. Knight! The introduction of this draft for second reading in the Chamber has been raised in the Committee on Culture and the majority of the Committee on Culture has repeatedly found that it should be dealt with in the context of the general amendment of study grants and the law on student loans presented by the Ministry. Since we Social Democrats have never understood the relationship between these two things, the establishment of a need-based system of education support and the payment of debts, our draft does not deal with this. Unfortunately, as far as I know, the draft issued by the Government in the Riigikogu procedure is not going to deal with this issue either. However, the question you have asked should be put to the Commission's co-rapporteur when the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans submitted by the government comes to the discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U95	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U96	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'd like to expand this discourse a little bit. You mentioned in your presentation that there are only two choices in essence, and you mentioned the example of Scandinavia. But there are many other options in Scandinavia and also in Central European countries. One example is that entrepreneurs contribute to education grants and conclude contracts with students who then have a prospective job in a good company, and this often relates to learning outcomes. This is only one way to increase study grants through different channels. Is it only worth limiting to two possible options?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U97	Thank you, Mr. Sooäär! This is a very positive path, except that I do not know and I do not believe that in any country the thing you are talking about can be set by law as an obligation for entrepreneurs. If there are such entrepreneurs, it is very nice and, as far as I know, there are still those. Here, too, is one of the wider problems that needs to be discussed and always raised when dealing with the whole higher education system: is it not possible, however, to some extent, to'restore' the word paralyzed, but let's say, to create a system that obliges graduates to go to work in the Estonian national economy and in the cultural sphere? The idea that you have proposed that this could be done through these scholarships would probably be nice and I see no reason why the state itself should not be bound by the obligation to remain in Estonia for a certain period of time. Of course, the question arises here: in this case, the state must also secure these jobs. I think that not the references to the general rights of the European Union, but precisely the problem of difficulties in securing jobs, has hindered the implementation of this idea. But while working on this subject, we need to look at all of this, and the scholarships offered by your companies would be very welcome and would contribute to the creation of free higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U98	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! A few weeks ago, we passed the Higher Education Reform Act in this Chamber, one part of which also regulates scholarships resulting from student learning outcomes and academic success. I see that you have brought something similar into your bill, just like a scholarship to everyone or a student salary to everyone. If we compare the higher education reform adopted and your draft 210, is there no confusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U100	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that we are talking about everyone only for the first semester. For the second semester, there are already various restrictions, and for the first semester, we also have this 26-year-old limit. As far as scholarships are concerned, they have been discussed repeatedly in the Committee on Culture, and Mr Aaviksoo has also mentioned them. Yes, there is a reference in that law that the Government of the Republic may establish scholarships and procedures for their appointment. Unfortunately, we have not heard any more about them. I have understood from the Minister that they are intended to be given in a relatively limited number, in certain disciplines which are not particularly wanted to be studied, and perhaps for very good learning outcomes. I have not heard any figures on the size or number of possible scholarships. And knowing that the Ministry of Education is currently having difficulty fighting money even for this draft we are going to deal with at first reading, I think in the autumn, and only recently I read that the government's budget strategy still does not include an increase in education grants from 2013, there is a problem where and how much more money can be obtained for these scholarships under the current paradigm. But scholarships really exist in law, that's a hint they're coming. Let's hope they come. The point of our proposal is, I repeat, that 50-60% of students receive support. Of course, the Minister of Education does not refer to this rate in the case of scholarships referred to in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U101	Any more questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Jaak Allik! Priit Sibula, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group by my colleague Jaak Allik has been on the table of the Committee on Culture three times. The first time was on 30 April, when the speaker was appointed representative of the Commission. On 15 May, there was a substantive discussion of the draft law, in which Janne Pukk, head of the Department of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education and Research and Kaire Liiv, lawyer of the Legal Department, participated as guests. Since the author's report was so thorough, I would only mark a few of the topics that were the main sources of discussion. The basic allowance, which in essence can also be called the student's salary, was one point which was discussed and on which opinions differed. The second was the family topic, on which Jaak Allik stopped while on the talk board, so that those people who have the same registration and live in the same city and those who sign out might seem to be easier to obtain needs-based support. Mr Allik pointed out that he felt that this provision would not be abused, but it was a discussion point in which there was a difference of opinion. The subject discussed in greater detail was the monthly calculation of needs-based support. Although it is also proposed to amend the Tax Administration Act in order to obtain data, it is actually difficult because in Estonia people are not obliged to declare income on a monthly basis but on an annual basis. Therefore, access to these data is likely to be a little difficult. But we admitted that this would require a more in-depth debate and that it would probably be possible to find a sensible solution to this issue. Although the initiator felt that money should not be very much talked about, but rather thought of the content, which could be accepted, it should be noted that the government has despised this draft too much and believed that the cost of the initiator has been reduced by about EUR 40 million per year, and that in reality the cost of the draft is much higher. For the third time, this draft was discussed on Monday 28 May when two things were decided: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today; the second was to reject the draft (by 5, against 4, with 0 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is a joy that during the last period of work, there has been a great deal of discussion on the drafts relating to improving the lives of the university and students. Another concern is that we are well different, depending on which group's proposals are being discussed. I have noticed in the Riigikogu for a long time that we have a great deal of hurrah-optimism when the proposals of the government coalition are being discussed. The opposite is true when the draft comes from the opposition. Indeed, the draft proposed by the Social Democrats contains those places that can be argued, debated and argued. There are also places in the government bill that you can argue, argue and argue about. Somehow, when someone in the opposition tries to take a pin to blow too much air out of a balloon, it doesn't matter. A very simple, clear and normal attitude would be to stop reading the draft tabled by the Socialists today and to look at it in a benevolent manner, not in a whirlwind and in a fight, as if the word went through. It is as simple as that, the Riigikogu should think in a statesmanly manner! On this basis, I propose that we stop reading this draft today and then seriously consider merging the proposed drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U104	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since the proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading, we must vote on it. Let us move to the preparation of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 33 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U105	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law supplementing political party law initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 216. Mr Borodichi, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. a on April 18th. The draft provides the basis for the payment of remuneration to the members of the committee for the supervision of the financing of political parties set up under the Political Party Act. In particular, there is no regulation in the current party law to pay the members of the political party funding committee for their work. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the members of the monitoring committee should be remunerated for their work. The Government of the Republic gave its opinion on the draft on 17 May. The opinion was supportive of the draft. At the same time, the Government of the Republic made a technical comment on the draft, suggesting, for the sake of clarity, in point 1 of the draft, that the replacements of the committee on the monitoring of political parties' funding would be remunerated for attending the meeting of the Commission. The payment of the remuneration to the alternates is now laid down in point 2 of the draft. The Constitutional Commission also discussed the draft before the first reading at its meeting on 28 May and considered that the technical amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic's opinion should be included in the draft. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs presents the draft as amended at first reading. The Commission also proposed to close the first reading of the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to propose that the Bureau set a deadline for the submission of amendments. a 7 June at 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U107	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Grief Damm, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U108	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Since the Riigikogu is made up only of representatives of political parties, does it not seem like an attempt to bribe if the party representatives determine the remuneration of their own reviewers? Was this not the issue raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U109	Thank you. No, this issue did not arise in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U110	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 216. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is set in s. a 7 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U111	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft Penal Code Supplementation Act 209 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair to Andres Anvelt, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U112	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce to you draft amendment to the Penal Code 209 concerning the purchase of sex by a minor. With this draft, the Social Democratic Party Group wants to supplement the current law with a provision that criminalises the purchase of sex from a minor person under the age of 18. The amendment is necessary because Section 2 of Chapter 11 of the current Penal Code, entitled 'Terms against a minor', provides for a number of elements of crime which protect the normal mental and sexual development of a minor, but which do not ensure that the purchase of services characteristic of prostitution by a minor would be punishable and legally condemned in society, in addition to ethical assessment. Prosecution studies and expert opinions indicate that a large proportion of adults engaged in prostitution have already started selling their bodies underage, which is why it is important to reduce the demand for this activity by means of legal measures. According to the study "Prostitution in Estonia: the situation of women involved in prostitution' carried out by the Estonian Open Society Institute in 2006, almost 50% of women involved in prostitution in Estonia have started to deal with it as a minor. An NGO Eluline study can also be put aside: nearly 600 women were asked for the period 2010-2011 and the figure is even higher than 70% according to the questionnaire. This shows that conventional measures aimed at providing only supply cannot combat this phenomenon. I would like to thank the organisations involved in the drafting of the draft law, the representatives of NGO Eluline, the Estonian Women's Association Round Table and the Estonian Women's Shadows Association, as well as the proposals made on the text of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will now give you a brief overview of the problems of juvenile prostitution in Estonia. The current criminal and social measures have not been able to significantly reduce prostitution and trafficking in human beings in Estonian society. While various measures are often available to curb adult prostitution, and both law enforcement and social workers have much easier access to those providing this service, juvenile prostitution is much more hidden. At the same time, juvenile prostitution has far deeper consequences in society. First, it provides the basis for prostitution as an inescapable lifestyle in adulthood, mutilating the service provider both mentally and physically as a minor. The current Penal Code provides for qualifying and aggravating circumstances for biasing minors into prostitution, for their exploitation and for trafficking in human beings aimed at their exploitation, but all these measures are aimed at curbing prostitution as a service. Through these provisions, society very clearly condemns prostitution as an unethical service, but demand has been overlooked. There is certainly a certain moral condemnation of the users of prostitution in society, but because of the concealment of prostitution as consumers of the service, it remains vague and impersonal. Similarly, the condemnation of the purchase of prostitution from minors is certainly much more serious from the point of view of social morality, but the concealment of the demand for this service does not allow the problem to be properly recognised and hindered in society. The draft law refers to Section 2 of Chapter 11 of the Penal Code, 'Crimes Against the Family and Minority', a separate set of crimes entitled 'Sex Buying Minor', which criminalises the provision or transfer of a fee to a person under 18 or to a person pimping him in order to engage in sexual intercourse or otherwise satisfy sexual passion. The aim of the draft is to reduce the number of minors involved and tempted by prostitution, in particular by reducing the demand for such services. The fear of being punished for such an act greatly increases the fear that the act will be made public and will be followed by moral condemnation in society. The creators of the law do not aim to solve the problem fully, as the consumption of prostitution is largely a hidden activity, especially in the case of minors. At the same time, it will certainly have a preventive effect if the consumer of such a sex service is aware of the prohibition imposed at the legislative level and of the penalty applicable to the violation. Another important objective of the draft law is to apply more serious liability to those who buy sex services from minors who are forced to engage in prostitution as victims of human trafficking. The existence of such an additional qualifying condition reduces, on the one hand, the pimp's desire to provide sex services to consumers from a child forced to engage in prostitution. Similarly, a sex service buyer who actually perceives that a minor sells a service to him or her affected by some remote circumstances, such as the vulnerable condition of a minor, helplessness which may be expressed in a weak sense, violence against the minor, fraud or other situation that the minor does not actually understand, must realise that he or she can be punished much more severely than in the first paragraph. This provision, too, is of a proactive nature as a matter of priority and must reduce the consumption of this service. The third important objective is to avoid situations where Estonia could turn from minors into the country of destination of sex buyers. To date, the purchase of services from underage prostitutes has been criminalised in several countries in our region, such as Finland, Sweden, Lithuania, Norway and Denmark. If Estonia does not follow the example of these countries, Estonia is in real danger of becoming a sex industry related to minors, because the sense of impunity can bring here the so-called sex tourists from our neighbouring countries. Now a little bit about the legal nature of the bill. The legal benefit protected by the Bill is the mentally and sexually normal development of a minor under 18 years of age, which is why the provision falls under Chapter 11 of the Penal Code, 'Family and minor offences'. The objective composition of the provision consists of entering into sexual intercourse with a person under 18 years of age or otherwise satisfying sexual passion. It is important to note that the conditions laid down in the composition are also met if the buyer has only offered the fee, i.e. the fee has not yet been paid or has been paid in part. It is also irrelevant, as a result of its composition, whether the act of offering or transferring the consideration has taken place, i.e. the sexual service has been set up to consume or not, and whether the agreement was concluded by the minor himself or by his intermediary, or pimp, to purchase the service. In essence, the composition covers any minor purchase of services of a prostitution nature. By the way, such a service does not require direct physical contact. For example, a buyer may wish to satisfy sexual passion either visually or online, by allowing or transferring a minor to monitor such activity or by some other means of aiding him or her. From a subjective point of view, the composition requires the will of a person. The membership is fulfilled if the person acted at least indirectly, or admitted that he could buy sex underage. As a result of the criminal offence's qualifications, according to the bill, it is possible to impose a penalty ranging from fines to three years imprisonment. In the case of a qualified formation involving a minor victim of trafficking in human beings, the penalty rates are higher: from one year in prison to five years in prison. Since a criminal is punishable by a prison sentence of up to 15 years in the context of a form of minor exploitation of human trafficking, the sentence of up to five years for the consumer of this criminal service is fully proportionate in order to avoid the demand which basically helps to achieve the goal of trafficking in human beings to make a profit. The draft law also compared the relevant legislation of our neighbouring countries. Finnish criminal law, where the purchase of sexual services by minors is punishable, should be highlighted. According to the composition of Finnish criminal law, it is punishable to incline a person under the age of 18 to sexual intercourse or other sexual activity, by allowing or paying a fee. The sentence for that purpose shall extend to a term of imprisonment of up to one year. The mediation of such a service is also punishable, and the attempt to commit an offence is also punishable in both cases. No directly new terms have been introduced in the draft. Although the term "purchase of sex' in the title of the provision is new for the purposes of the Penal Code, its content is reproduced in the first paragraph of the section. I have also already proposed one amendment to the Committee on Legal Affairs. If you currently have the text of the draft, in the first paragraph of the provision, the word 'his' should be replaced by'minor'. The question was that it could not be understood whether it was forbidden to buy sex from a pimp. Yes, it can be interpreted in this way, but it is actually understandable from both the title and the first sentence of the provision that the rights of a minor are still protected. In order to avoid confusion, there is a proposal to correct the text. That's all for me. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U113	The questions are entirely there. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U114	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! As initiators, we have written the explanatory memorandum to the Act that there are no costs directly related to the implementation of the Act. At the same time, the Government's opinion states that the implementation of the law entails significant costs. Have you understood, and can you justify, what these government fears have to do with or what they have to do with?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U115	Thank you, good questioner! As I understand it, the costs of training law enforcement agencies are considered as direct costs. This is, of course, very interesting from the point of view that, first of all, the training of legislative changes in law enforcement agencies has been so-called waged. To bring this on the grounds that the author of the bill has erred, I think it is a bit overstretched. We will recall the provisions of the Penal Code on human trafficking, which was discussed only recently in this Chamber, which actually meant conceptual changes and which, in essence, bring about changes in the structure of the Ministry of the Interior's administration, as the Minister of the Interior has talked about this very remote area. This did not justify any additional costs at the time, but this has been the case for this draft. I think that implementing such a minor amendment, as I said, is the primary objective of the draft, namely prevention, is not more difficult for the police than, for example, carrying out procedures relating to the sale of tobacco products or other items prohibited for minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U116	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U117	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When preparing the law, you have certainly also studied statistics on how many minors are currently buying sex from in Estonia, and how much should the police increase their resources to actually control it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U118	Thank you. In my explanation, I pointed out that the issue of juvenile prostitutes is so hidden in society that we can only assess it indirectly. I mentioned the figures from surveys that have been carried out in Estonia over the last five years and which show that at least half of the people who are involved in prostitution have started as minors. At the same time, those organisations that deal with prostitutes rarely meet minors because their pimps, the so-called sexual service people, do everything to ensure that these minors do not reach social workers in any way. This is a hidden area, none of which actually has an overview other than the estimate given in these same studies. I don't think so, I'm even sure it doesn't involve any significant structural changes and expenditure on the police. As I said, reacting to this crime is fact-based. This is analogous, comparable to, for example, these procedures, such as those involving the victim of a misdemeanour, such as a minor's alcohol or tobacco salesman or a perpetrator of a crime. This actually goes hand in hand with some other procedures. This is not an end in itself, but as an additional crime arising from other procedures. That is, I would like to emphasise once again, above all, a preventive measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U119	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You mentioned a number of neighbouring countries where the law is essentially similar to the one you presented. I also find it worthy of an example. Can you give examples of how these laws have changed attitudes in these neighbouring countries and how this law works in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U121	Thank you. What I can give you is very subjective. I would like to emphasise once again that this draft is primarily intended as a preventive measure. A person entering the market for sexual services will certainly choose whether he or she wants to pay for the service for which he or she is willing to partner with a minor, an adult, a man, a woman. And if he knows that buying underage sex is legally regulated differently in society, then he certainly mostly changes his choices. As I understand it, this is one of the concepts of the Penal Code, the General Penal Code, that those acts that have been described must be avoided if they have problems with 'personal internal morality'. Looking a little wider, the problem could certainly become, especially in developing societies such as Estonia, the ban on all kinds of prostitution, just as some politicians have come forward here, so that everything should be banned. Certainly not, we do not have such social opportunities to direct the people who are in the prostitution market today to a normal life. By forensicsing this whole area, we would do them a disservice. For example, some representatives of the Swedish law enforcement authorities have told me over the years from the ground of their practice that, unfortunately, this has led to a certain negative setback even in Sweden. A grown-up person who is involved in prostitution can no longer turn to a social worker because then he has to admit he's a prostitute, and if he admits he's a prostitute, then he has to admit he's a client, and ultimately he's hiding a crime. So it's such a double-edged sword. But in the case of minors in all these countries, and I hope that in Estonia too, the primary aim is to prevent the crime. It is very difficult to assess what practice is, because I say once again that most of those who are exposed to the police through brothels are adults. There have been isolated cases, but they're lonely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U122	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U123	Thank you. I'm asking you because you're a practitioner in certain areas. You have spoken very often about buying underage sex. For example, when two 17-year-olds go to a restaurant tonight, the young man pays for dinner with a card, then they have sex and they get into a fight in the morning. The girl goes to the police, reports that the young man bought her sex. What, then, should be the penalty? Is this a financial penalty or is it up to three years in prison?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U124	Thank you. Dear colleague Erki! As I have said, the law can always be interpreted, on the one hand, as to how not to commit an infringement and, on the other hand, as to how to commit an infringement so as not to get caught. Right now, I don't see a problem with your question. It's all a matter of assessing the evidence. If a girl's thinking of blackmailing it, the detective has to prove that such a thing, the purchase of sex, has occurred knowingly. The boy has wanted to pay for getting a sex service from his partner, just as underage. It has to have happened. It must be evidence-based. No one can be convicted of criminal law on the basis of conjecture. This 17-year-old is also to be held liable if he wants to pay for it in order to receive sexual service from his partner. But what I want to say here is that if this has actually happened by mutual agreement and the other person has later started blackmailing, for example, or wants to show the situation differently, then the investigator has to prove both things: on the one hand, whether the blackmail fact has happened, on the other hand, whether the young man really wanted to buy a sex service with money. Once again, there is no point in us going into an in-depth process of proof right now. There have been cases in Estonia and around the world, and they have been read in literature that the intercourse that has been normal this evening has become a rape or rape attempt in the morning, for which there is no difference between women and men. Then it's a matter of proof. Once again, I do not think there is any point in looking for holes that allow you to blackmail someone. For most people, 99.9% it's not necessary to find a hole to blackmail.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U125	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Andres Anvelt. I would like to ask for a co-report by Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 28 May. All the members of the Commission, with the exception of Neeme the Great, who were replaced by Jaak Allik, participated. Tuuli Ploom, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Madis Timpson, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, were also invited to the meeting. On this debate, it could in principle be said that it actually started when the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the issue of trafficking in human beings a few months ago. At the time, someone had such a spontaneous idea that maybe buying underage sex should be criminalized. Then we said that this matter may require a slightly more complex approach, and we should review more law enforcement, not just one change. However, the Social Democrats proposed a proposal which was essentially not opposed either by the members of the Commission or by the government which assessed it. However, some technical questions arose during the discussion, which in itself shows that the adoption of one legislative amendment is not always so easy, that it can relate to many other things and that many questions remain in the air. For example, Andres himself referred to a technical error in the wording: the draft could be read as wishing to criminalise the relationship with the pimp. It also raised questions as to whether the person should be a person who is a well-informed minor, under the age of 18, or, as the author said, that he did not consider the buyer to be aware of the fact that he is a person under the age of 18, it should remain a buyer risk. That's where we got a little dissent, so we're gonna get somewhere in the future discussion. The question was whether it should be punished for the crime that has been committed or whether money has been offered. The question also arose of the intention to criminalise the purchase of online visual satisfaction, which the author spoke about here. To state that the provider, who does not have to be in Estonia at all, is under 18 years old, it gets very complicated and out of the subject very much. It also raises the question of the country of residence and the country of the offence. This is the kind of thing that requires a bit longer debate. Similarly, there are examples of what Andres has brought here from neighbouring countries that in Sweden it is forbidden to buy underage sex. In Sweden, buying sex at all is prohibited. This is not quite a representative example. But, as has been said, ultimately, no one in the Commission finds that the prostitution of minors is commendable, and none of us support it. So we looked at the matter in essence, we discussed it, and our aim is to regulate it in any case. We are probably doing this together with the government, because the Ministry of Justice is in the process of reviewing these matters and also of transposing the directive on this subject in the European Union. In this sense, we were all in agreement, and the heart is in the right place. The result of the vote in the committee was this: the draft was decided to be put on the plenary agenda today; I was appointed rapporteur and it was proposed to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the amendments. 20 June 2010 at 4 p.m. All these decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-05_U127	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions, it's clear. Thank you, Valdo Randpere! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 209. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting draft 209 amendments is s. 20 June 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you very much for your participation, and have a nice day. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 12.06.
