ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the third Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone have a desire to come forward with drafts or inquiries? No one has any drafts or enquiries to hand over. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 26 September, the following members of government will take part in Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U2	The first item is the debate on fundamental rights and freedoms in Estonia and the analysis of the situation of the Defence Police and Prosecutor's Office. I will present to you the Rules of Procedure for the debate on a matter of national importance. First, Kadri Simson, a member of the Riigikogu, gives a presentation that lasts up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers (up to 10 minutes). Kalle Klandorf, the assistant mayor of Tallinn, will next perform, his presentation will last up to 20 minutes. Questions can be submitted to the speaker within 30 minutes. The third waitress is Leon Glikman. His report lasts up to 20 minutes, and questions can be asked within 30 minutes. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Each of you may submit two oral questions to the rapporteurs during the debate on this item. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U3	I have a procedural question about the rapporteurs on this item. I don't want to challenge anyone's identity, but I have a fundamental question. The two rapporteurs, the president of the group who has initiated the item, and the expert, the lawyer, are clear on the point of attending the debate. But what's the problem with this town's assistant mayor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U4	Thank you for this procedural question. It is not for the Governing Board to decide who is present. The speakers will be approved by the Bureau on the basis of a proposal from the political group which will put a matter of national importance on the agenda. Please, Igor Gräzin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U5	The question is that Kadri, our good colleague, is acting in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, but Mr Leon is a professional lawyer who is subject to the rules of conduct of a lawyer. Do any rules of conduct apply, for example, to the deputy mayor in this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U6	Thank you for your question. I believe that all the rules of good conduct apply to all the people who live on this earth. I think that's what we can do. The debate will be concluded by negotiations. According to good practice, the speech on the panel is first made by representatives of the political groups and then by other members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the committees. After the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. We will discuss the item. I would like a member of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I have to make a reply for the introduction. My speech also includes a 22-page memorandum. The interim president decided not to allow it to be distributed on the tables or put on the shelves at the back of the hall. Therefore, copies of this memorandum are on the table next to the hall. I do not mind if, during my presentation, any of you wish to stand up, go and take this memorandum, because it is indeed an interesting document. Perhaps some will also take this text for their colleagues, then the hall will not be empty during my speech. I think that the last week of September is very appropriate to raise this issue. We have overcome the anxiety of the beginning of the year and have been able to carry out a thorough analysis of the situation in Estonia. Tensions have decreased so much that there is already a joke about Estonia's legal space. When it gets humorous, you can see that the first tension is over. Some time ago, I heard a joke from lawyers about their market share. In fact, Estonia should not aim to be among the five richest countries, but rather to achieve a situation where all residents would have been punished for some kind of offence. Of course, this joke also has its own side of professional cretinism, as it would mean that there would probably be a sustainable huge market for the service provided by lawyers' professionals because of reversibility. Unfortunately, this joke has a sort of truth under it. According to the information published by the Ministry of Justice itself, 444383 citizens had been entered in the criminal record in Estonia as of July. This is a startling figure, especially considering that a certain proportion of the population is underage. Are we really a criminogenic nation or is there a mistake in something else? These statistics refer to the overcriminalisation of social relations or to the fact that too many acts are treated as misdemeanours, as well as to the fact that the way in which simplification, haste and agreement have taken place in order to determine what is called a procedure. The so-called simple, urgent and settlement procedures, which are widely practiced in criminal proceedings and misdemeanour proceedings, formally mean precisely that. The Estonian media reflects all kinds of offences unreasonably much compared to other news. This impression has come from my personal experience. I have not noticed, for example, watching BBC or Finnish television, that there is as much attention being devoted to offences as it is in our media. The genre of news reporting that proceedings have been initiated is one of the most widely used in the media. I think it would be natural if something extraordinary should still happen in the area of justice to exceed the new threshold. Unfortunately, the mass punishment of citizens and the disproportional reflection of what is happening in society creates a certain, completely different semi-pathological atmosphere, so even the Prime Minister confirms the permanence of politicians and eavesdropping on telephone calls, businessmen unlink telephones from power batteries at business meetings, and the President of the State is appearing selectively on state television emergency news. It is not acceptable to reason that we are a criminal nation. Maybe it's not the people, it's something else. For example, the implementation of the law is becoming a conveyer. The authorities of the force use both legislation to push their procedural interests through to make it easier for opponents to deal with their procedural opportunities, as well as direct interference with justice and influence on the judges who decide the case. It should be recalled that, in the ongoing so-called land exchange process, this fact, i.e. the influence of the judge, is explicitly mentioned in the judgment. Attorney-at-law Alar Urm has written an article in the Estonian Express where he has given examples of influencing another judge. Our colleague, the former judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Rait Maruste, has expressed concern that the excessive weight of settlement procedures has actually led to the prosecution's office from the courtroom and the substantive justice is carried out in the offices there. It should be noted that, on the basis of the statistics of recent years, only about 4% of criminal cases are subject to a so-called general procedure, although the general procedure is the usual way of a trial, as we usually imagine a trial. The situation is all the more worrying about the ability of the prosecutor's office to push through almost any legislative amendment that benefits him. Obviously, I am now inclined to have a very professional discussion, but I note, however, that lawyers have complained about an overly low standard of proof in case law and are increasingly spreading, so that conviction may be based on arbitrary and unreasonably incriminating conclusions, ignoring rational alternative possibilities. Estonia's pre-trial procedure is not based on the equality and competition of the European parties, but on an inquisitional investigation from the past, where justice is held in the pre-trial stage, again not in the open courtroom, but in the investigator's office. The Kapo Yearbook reveals negative information about individuals without the people mentioned in the book breaking the law. The reason is that their behaviour is not in line with the government's objectives and with any unpublished government regulations or secret information to persons whose reputational data has been disclosed but not disclosed. This situation has arisen despite the fact that even the Supreme Court has indicated that it is not compatible with fair and fair legal proceedings where a person is convicted or is subject to other negative consequences in the main part on the basis of information that a person is not shown or introduced. Neither does the restriction of freedom of expression within the framework of traditional and Western liberal democracy by prohibiting criticism of the political course of the government. There is no need for a high level of education to realise that according to § 43 of the Constitution, any breach of the confidentiality of a message must be preceded by the permission of the court. Unfortunately, in certain cases, Estonian laws allow this fundamental violation of constitutional law without the permission of the court. Even after the end of the surveillance activity, the person cannot know why and how he was pursued, as this is excluded due to a restriction on access to state secrets. It is common ground that requests for secret intelligence by courts are formal and almost universal, and can be used on any occasion. The principle that this request should be justified in substance on a case-by-case basis has been waived. In practice, it is common to use a copied bottom, most of the permits issued by the court are similar. It should also be noted that the collection of evidence by surveillance activities should also be exceptional under the current law, but in practice it is exceptional that such a convenient way of obtaining evidence is not used. Such observations can be made in many ways. This is a tendency which shows that the state is moving sneaking towards limiting the fundamental rights of the person, and we accept this as an inevitability. Democracy means, first and foremost, the existence of individual freedoms for the individual and the real opportunity to use these freedoms factually. Unjustified and excessive restriction of personal freedoms is a warning signal in the broad sense. We have dangerous signs of human alienation from the country. Why have we reached such a situation and what needs to be done to balance the situation minimally? This is the situation that we have reached, in particular, because political power is trying to use law enforcement bodies as a means of achieving its policy objectives, or as a means of political struggle. This objective is easier to achieve if laws make it more convenient and easier to spy on citizens. In other words, we give you a better armaments, give us the better results that you promised us against the intimidation of political opponents. Ain Seppik, a colleague of mine for four years in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, has appointed the Prosecutor General of the State to be a party prosecutor. Having worked closely with him, I can say that Ain Seppik thinks before he says, and if he doesn't have to, he won't. So I think he knew what he was saying. Legal practice has confirmed his observation. It would have made sense to design certain steps in order to better protect the values of the important area of justice mentioned in our constitution. I'll mention some of them. The restrictions on a person under § 3 of the Constitution may be imposed only on the basis of a published law. Legal certainty of § 10 of the Constitution. The proportionality of § 11 of the Constitution. § 13 (2) of the Constitution Article 14 of the Constitution: effective procedure and effective protection of rights. § 26 of the Constitution on privacy. § 43 of the Constitution and the court's permission in the event of exceptions. § 45 of the Constitution on freedom of expression. I will conclude with § 123 of the Constitution, which provides for the priority of ratified international law. I will also refer to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article 6 of which provides for an honest procedure, Article 8 on privacy and Article 13 on the effective protection of rights. It is important that the basic values indicated are not declarative in the legal area, but practically applicable. So, what do we need to look at now? I will start with the security clearance of the judges. Paragraphs 54 and 541 of the Courts Act, which govern security clearance, should be corrected. At the moment, the aspiring and the head of the Supreme Court is made judge by the security review kapo. The legal requirement for security clearance is reasonable and justified, but if this is done by a body which is at the same time one of the parties to the case and also to the case, the independence of the judges is not guaranteed to the extent necessary. It is not hard to guess why such a threat exists and how it can be exploited. Let us ask whether the former employees of the Kapo, Põder and Dressen, for example, were so professional-ethical that they would not under any circumstances have taken advantage of the link in order to achieve their illegal objectives? It would be advisable to create a specific body or to reform the bonnet so that it does not act directly or so extensively as an investigative body. This would preclude or reduce the temptation to influence someone or something in the absence of direct procedural interest. This is where I come to the second proposal: clarification of the competence of the kapo. Kapo's jurisdiction should also be determined more precisely because pre-trial investigations are strictly regulated by law, but counter-intelligence activities are not subject to national codes of honor and ethics. Thus, the same public authority combines activities whose legislative bases and policies are completely different. The principle of 'objective consecrates the measure' and the mentality of 'we are all allowed' is easy to infiltrate the strictly regulated pre-trial procedure. I also think that the law on state liability needs to be clarified. The amendment and alignment with European case law need to be made by the State Liability Act because it is now more appropriate to call it a law exempting the State from liability. The basis of state liability is unreasonably limited. The State will only be liable for any damage caused by justice if the judge committed a criminal offence. In the case-law of the European Court of Justice, the basis for national liability is much wider. There is no reasonable reason why the State could not be liable for the injury to the same extent and in the same way as other parties. Nor can we miss the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Our laws and case law must at least comply with the minimum standards of the Convention. There is, for example, such a standard that surveillance activities are allowed only in case of strong public interest and not as a means of comfort. Detailed rules should apply to surveillance activities. There is no doubt that the massive hidden surveillance of citizens refers to a police state. This is only allowed if it is necessary for the protection of democratic institutions, even on the ultima ratio principle. Surveillance activities could be initiated on the basis of a judge's decision made with substantive discretion and not on a pre-printed plank by the granting of an authorisation. According to Estonian statistics, in recent years, the courts have satisfied 97.98% of the eavesdropping requests. This shows that the procedure for evaluating applications is as meaningful as the evaluation of elections based on the election results of the Soviet Union. Most of the criminal records in the Penal Code allow for eavesdropping. This situation does not make sense. Finally, I will look at a proposal that could be seriously considered in Estonia in the situation that has developed. It's a jury institution. The development of our country and society is ripe for such a fundamental decision. Despite the presumption of innocence declared, justice is still in our courts with an indictment. A limited number of persons participate in making decisions in Estonia's circumstances. This is a significant negative factor given the small size of the country and the closed circle of communication. This creates an excessive opportunity to influence out-of-court proceedings. Despite our democratic regime, the current judicial system does not adapt quickly enough to changes in social life. The jury is a court in which the conviction and punishment are divided: sworn men and women decide only on the issue of guilt, while the professional judge makes the right legal assessment of the act and sets the sentence on the basis of the law. The jury is technically chosen on a random basis, such as electoral lists, by telephone book or by computer. This minimises the influence of the case outside the procedure. It is possible to reduce the jury if there are circumstances in which impartiality is affected. The jury system provides for the selection of a jury for the purpose of identifying a panel of jury judges which is as impartial as possible. The existence of a jury would end the widespread rumors of biased forces because it is difficult to convict someone on the basis of inadequate and incomplete pre-trial investigation. The prosecution would not be lightly brought to court, and a false accused would not easily seek the settlement of the case before a jury because he is aware of the real circumstances that are difficult to present with his own benefit. In the case of a jury, the principle of competition between the parties would actually apply in the proceedings. This would undoubtedly strengthen the demands on the professional skills of the parties, both the prosecutor and the lawyer. Of course, there are objections to the jury, in particular technical and organisational nature as well as cost-related aspects, but under Estonian circumstances the jury could easily be limited to only six members. The aim is not to turn the entire court order upside down, but to legitimise this possibility in the case of more serious crimes and some other types of crime. Society needs balance. It is not the task of the Riigikogu to approve draft laws that have the interests of one party in mind, but to consider the situation that has developed in a balanced way. Thank you for your attention. In the last ten seconds, I will hand over the memorandum accompanying my speech to the President of the sitting. I hope that it will be included in the verbatim report of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U8	Thank you. Let us now turn to questions and answers. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U9	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In your meaningful presentation, you referred to the article of attorney-at-law Alar Urmi in the Estonian Express. There he describes the tactics of the prosecutor's office and the defense police: "The tactics are that jobs, vehicles, homes and summer homes are being searched at the same time. If there are several suspects, all at the same time as possible. It will also prepare press releases, at least in cases of public interest. At the same time, signatures on the obligation to remain silent will be taken from the interviewees. " If the jury's purpose is to make a particular formation of the court more impartial, doesn't the jury really become more influenced by our current formation of the court? After all, the idea is that it is easier to influence so-called ordinary people through the media and the jury college formed from them than professional judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U10	Thank you for your question. There were several parts to this issue. As much as I would like, I cannot dwell on a very interesting article by attorney-at-law Alar Urmi in the Estonian Express due to the time constraints. But we're still not safe from media manipulations. This is illustrated by the land exchange judgment, in which Judge Valeri Lõõnik accused the Director General Raivo Aeg of an attempt to influence the judgment through the media. The jury may be more easily influenced by the media, but a number of measures can be taken against it. It is possible to regulate media communication during processes by imposing restrictions on the party to proceedings on the handling of certain subjects during court proceedings. In the event of their breach, the infringer could be subject to disciplinary action or to a sanction or fine imposed by the court. In such a case, consideration should also be given to the measure developed in the countries using the jury, so that, in the event of high media attention, jurors can be separated from the rest of the world. This means that they are placed during the process, for example, in a hotel or other place secured by the court. We know that this practice is used, for example, in the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U11	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I had a question about the so-called security clearance of the judges by the kapo. What gives reason to believe that the CPO officials should act favorably or with forgiveness in controlling potential judges? It's not the Department of Procedures, it's the Counter-intelligence Department, but they don't have any interest in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U13	I see a lively response to this issue by the chairman of the Special Committee on Security Supervision, but I do not think there is any reason to believe that the counter-intelligence department and the procedural department are not communicating with each other. However, it is a single organisation and a joint management. Therefore, the interests of the counter-intelligence department and of the procedural department are not entirely separable. Second, the counter-intelligence department may have a direct link to criminal proceedings, as criminal cases may emerge from counter-intelligence activities. This inconsistency within the organisation has also been highlighted before my performance today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U14	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U15	Thank you, Mr President. We are bench neighbours with Kalev and we are in one committee, and we are asking the same question, even though we did not agree on this in advance. But indeed, I also heard about the method of law enforcement and the power of attorney. The Department of Procedure of the Kapo investigates criminal cases, which are often subject to surveillance, in other words, given the same powers as the Counter-intelligence Department. So maybe there's nothing wrong with the Department of Procedure and Counterintelligence using similar or similar methods in their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U16	Thank you. I think it is a question of the general rules and mentality that both work brings. Counter-intelligence is an area where there are few rules and the purpose of the action is consecrated. However, criminal proceedings are very specific rules of procedure, which means that the defendant must take a conservative view of the exercise of the rights conferred on him. Reverse behaviour has brought us to today, where violation of fundamental rights in criminal proceedings is a rule rather than an exception. I think that without the additional guarantees, it would probably go even further. There is no need in Estonia to maintain counter-intelligence and criminal procedural activities in a 'one house', so it makes sense to separate these areas in order to reduce the possibility of arbitrary practices and better ensure the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. I think that this could be the area that the Riigikogu kapo commission could take more seriously than supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U17	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U18	Thank you. Good performer! The ban on sharing this memorandum on tables made it so hot that it disappeared in an instant, but it is still available there. I'll also tell the press to get out of there. But there's a lot of talk in this memorandum about a jury. It's a rather strange subject for us. We know it's an American method. Would it still be conceivable to adopt it in Estonia and when? As we know, these decisions are already being made at the pre-trial stage. Maybe it would be a lot more honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U19	Indeed, the jury has traditionally been applied in Anglo-American countries with legal culture. In the case of Estonia, however, it is important to bear in mind that in 2004, when the Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force, we took a new course and turned to competitive proceedings. The central value of the competitive procedure shall be the most impartial and independent court sought by the parties to the proceedings to convince them of their position. Having adopted the principle of competition resulting from Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, we must make efforts to ensure maximum impartiality and independence. In recent months, there have been a number of cases where judges have been secretly affected. Luckily for us, some of these incidents of influence have come out in the open and we can therefore provide these judges with public support and protection. These cases show that there is currently a lack of substantial balance of power. Much of our existing law comes from the European Union. Coming to day politics for a moment, I say that when we joined the ESM, we made it clear that we were prepared to give up part of our sovereign decision-making powers. Jury would be a step in the other direction. A jury would be the ultimate expression of democracy. Through the jury, some power can be given directly to those who should have power in a democratic society. Jury means surrendering justice to the people. Another important point in the case of a jury is that in our small society responsibility is shared between the jury and the judge: the jury makes a decision and the judge sets the penalty for harshness.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U20	Thank you. Although there is only 24 seconds left, I promise to ask one more question and we will hear the answer. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U21	Thank you. It went wrong in the end. There is no connection between the competitive process and the jury. The Inquisition court, as we know, is competitive. That's one. The other thing is the jury and Anglo-American legal culture. Oh, for heaven's sake! Russia and France, where is the Anglo-American system? Third, I think you've read a lot of American books. For example, in Harper Lee's book "Kill the Songbird," the jurors condemn an innocent person. Attorney Anatoly Koni in Zassulich's case found that the guilty person was acquitted. What makes you think that, in a situation where procedural procedures such as the prosecutor's interview, the recollections and opinions of the head of the advocacy, etc. are an integral part of the criminal process in Estonia, in those circumstances where everything happens in this small country through the newspaper, the jury will not become a lynch court? Isn't it the case that a professional judge is the last in Estonia to stand up for justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U22	Sorry, waitress! A procedural question from Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U23	Thank you, Madam President. Explain to us, please! Half an hour ago, you said there was ten minutes for a round of questions and answers. That time was over when he was filled with 15 seconds of Mr Gräzin's incendiary speech. You usually start ringing the bell in this situation and stop the call. What special status does Mr Gräzin have that he might violate the regulation you spoke about half an hour ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U24	I'll answer that question. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows for the completion of ongoing operations. I warned you earlier that this questioner will have one minute to ask the question as well as everyone else. This is due to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, Mr Gräzin, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U25	Since my name has been mentioned here, when I come to Mr Stalnukhin, I will take back my question. All the more so, it's very difficult to answer my question. Let's do it like I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U26	I'll let the waitress answer, though. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U27	Thank you. I think Igor Gräzin has created a good initiative to ensure that a heated round of speeches can take place in addition to the presentations. That's just what I said in line. Yeah, I've read a lot of books, including books issued in the United States. To prevent the emergence of a lynching jury, as you called it, the jury will be elected and eliminated by those who are obviously strongly prejudiced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U28	Thank you very much for the waitress. I ask for the next chair of Tallinn's assistant mayor Kalle Klandorf!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U29	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! Recently, several residents of Tallinn have approached Tallinn City Government, including businessmen operating in our city. They argue that the current state of the state's judicial activity does not meet their expectations as to what the rule of law should be. People feel scared, their activity is suppressed because of the state's actions, the country has widespread fear of law enforcement. Perhaps there is also a small answer to Paul-Eerik Rummo, my good former colleague since 1991, who asked why I was on the floor. For 22 years, I have been able to monitor the development of Estonian law enforcement agencies both inside and outside. The development of force structures goes hand in hand with the development of laws, and procedural standards and practices have undergone major changes over the years. Undemocratic phenomena can increasingly be seen in the activities of the national authorities and less and less attention is paid to the rights of the people enshrined in our constitution. The constitution adopted 20 years ago was one of the most democratic for that time, but over the years, politicians' interpretations are becoming increasingly undemocratic. Citizens, their constitutional rights and freedoms are affected. In this context, I would like to address some aspects relating to the current Code of Criminal Procedure and its handling in the context of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. During the previous regime, I worked in the criminal pursuit of the city of Tallinn for years, started as a simple inspector and graduated as Head of Department. At the time, the concept of socialist legitimacy existed in pre-trial and criminal investigations. Right now, that concept makes you laugh. But by looking at the auditorium I'm telling today, I think that probably a lot of you have heard this word compound. In short, this concerned any malpractice or omission by a law enforcement officer, since the time limits for criminal proceedings or intelligence were respected and the misuse of physical force. Now I would like to talk a little bit about procedural deadlines. I'm going to start again from the perspective of our recent history. The Soviet Code of Criminal Procedure, which was partially in force until 1994, laid down deadlines for the conduct of proceedings, during which the case had to be brought to court or closed. Paragraph 111 of the Code dealt with the time limits for the criminal investigation: 'The investigation must have been completed within two months at the latest. That period shall include the time from the date of the initiation of the case to the day on which the file, by means of a summary of the charge or by means of a regulation, on the referral of the case to a court for a decision on the application of measures of a medical nature is sent to the prosecutor or until the case is brought to an end or is suspended. The time limit for the investigation may be extended by the county and city prosecutor for up to four months. ' At present, the procedure does not recognise such deadlines. The absence of time limits for proceedings has led to the possibility for the defendant to investigate the conduct of the person for no matter how long, to intervene in his private life and other activities, without any legal clarity. People get the impression that the state doesn't care about their suffering, and the country doesn't care what happens to the citizen. What goals might cynicism be served by arbitrary procedural deadlines? The most important consequence of this, which could, of course, be an end in itself, is creating uncertainty for citizens, instilling fear in people and making them ready to exercise their rights. This means abolishing the rule of law. This is how Professor Rein Ruutsoo described the current situation. He is undoubtedly right because ignorance, including ignorance of the length of the procedural time limits, is a burden on the parties to the proceedings. Existing laws give law enforcement authorities the opportunity to have an almost endless covert pre-trial procedure. Due to the lack of procedural deadlines, record achievements such as the incessant pursuit of one person over two years have become possible in our criminal proceedings. I do not know that this practice would have occurred in the last decade of the Soviet era, although at the time we lived in an authoritarian state. Paradoxically, the laws in force at the end of the Soviet era seem more democratic in some respects than they are today. I will refer to some of these cases in my speeches. The next issue I want to talk about is responsibility. Judges Eha Popova and Märt Toming have spoken of interrogation protocols in court files that were literally similar. These protocols were drawn up by the police commissioner. I don't blame the commissioner who graduated from the Paikuse Police School or, at best, the National Defence Academy. Who's supposed to be responsible for the proceedings, isn't it the prosecutor? What makes such faulty procedures necessary? Our country's leading judges have thought that stupidity or sloppyness, but certainly lack of responsibility. No one doubts that the prosecutor's office employs many people with good theoretical knowledge, but they have little practice. For example, many of our well - known lawyers have also served in law enforcement agencies or the prosecutor's office, which has given them much more practical experience. Therefore, they also have a broader perspective. Of course, not all mistakes can be explained by lack of experience; it is certainly also a matter of personal responsibility and conscience. I have not heard that anyone should have been held responsible for the scandalous processes that have ended in court with a full acquittal. No one is responsible, and no one can be punished. Has anyone had to take responsibility for the Leo Kunman or Mart Visitamme process? What can be done to justify the massive pursuit of him and his wife, who ordered it, and who is responsible for it? Despite massive pursuits, no actions were found to blame him. Why do surveillance officers not have to take responsibility, why have these processes not been penalised by the force of the prosecutor? After all, it can be said that not every acquittal decision can be punished. That's right. But what if, in the early stages of the procedure, the "naked eye" shows that it has no perspective? My personal opinion from what was published in the press at the beginning of the Visitamme story was that the accusation lacks a judicial perspective. That's what happened. This should have been understood by the members of the Defence Police and the Prosecutor's Office immediately after receiving some information. It seems to me that the defence police don't care about the perspective of justice in their actions, and their aim is to bring it to justice at all costs. For example, the pre-trial defendant refused to accept alibi evidence at all in the course of the proceedings in the case of Viisiitamme. They could only be brought before the court. Thus, the murmuring process was preceded by a meaningless procedure that was not interested in the truth. The same was true of your colleague, Esther Tuiksoo, who was accused of receiving access to the apartment in return. Tuiksoo wanted to show in the course of the procedure that the apartment could not be used and was not used. Namely, there were no lamps, switches, and kitchens in that apartment. This evidence was not accepted by the court before the hearing, and the alibi was only taken into account in court. But no, their own faults aren't recognised by the investigative bodies, they're in a tantrum. The result is the persecution of a large number of people for public money. No one is personally responsible for the procedural miscarriage, but the State had to pay the defendants EEK 1.25 million in damages: Mart Viisitammele 688000 and Simmo Saare 558000 kroons. Can't be surprised when, alongside stupidity and stubbornness, similar processes make accusations about political order work. The Civil Service Act allows an official who caused the damage to be ordered to do so, but such steps have not been heard from the public. Both investigators and prosecutors have taken a comfortable stand that the state is paying for their false start. If it is a political order, the costs of the subscriber must be borne. What if it's just an inadequacy? At the end of the Russian era, which I remember quite well, no detective or prosecutor who would have dealt with it in this way would have worked in his place in the future, but he would have been investigated himself. Such responsibility disciplines. So, in this example, the State suffered financial damage, but the suspect, perhaps later, was also morally injured. The initiation of criminal proceedings alone and the conduct of acts without the use of specific means of coercion are stigmatising the suspect or accused person. The correctness, but also the termination of criminal proceedings, does not remove the negative and humiliating effects of criminal proceedings. At the same time, I am delighted that the recent events involving our Minister of Justice himself have also brought the importance of public humiliation of the suspect or accused and the protection of rights to the Minister's consciousness. The Code of Criminal Procedure ignores the issue of harm to suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. Instead, we have the State's law on compensation for damage caused to a person by taking unfair liberty and § 15 of the State Liability Act, which also regulates compensation for damage caused to the administration of justice. The joint summary answer contained in the four decisions of the Supreme Court General Assembly in 2011 is that the procedure for compensation for damages caused by criminal proceedings is unconstitutional, as it does not include the damage already mentioned. Eerik Kergandberg, the judge of state, has repeatedly pointed out this situation. Returning to the issue of responsibility, I say that it is unknown to this day whether the people who pushed the traitor Herman Simm into increasingly important positions of office were punished or held accountable. If someone had bothered to examine the views of former colleagues on his personal qualities, the state would have been left untreasoned and Herman Simm would have been a simple employee of some security companies, for example, a very punctual worker. Who were his supporters and mentors in the defense police, the ministry, the government, who are co-responsible for his actions? It doesn't seem to me that it's wanted to be studied very closely or found out. There was also no answer to the question of who is responsible for eight years of processing a case, 40,000 pages in the file, of which only about 5% are eligible for legal proceedings, and procedural rules have been violated in the pursuit of surveillance activities. You understand, of course, that this trial has not yet ended, but that is the conclusion of the Court of First Instance. To conclude on this topic, I quote Rait Marust, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, who answered the question about the process of land change: 'Let us not forget that the saga is behind the ruining of real people and the intense invasion of constitutional rights over the years. ' I am concerned about another procedural act, which has been discussed a great deal recently. It's a search. The subject of the search rose to the agenda after the Defence Police Department had thoroughly searched the office of the Central Party. As we recall, the criminal case, which was the pretext of the search, quietly crippled the flood of indefensibility, and the accusations were finally raised on a completely different issue, the motive of which was a package of paper that had been taken in the search, which had no real connection with the search. I come back to the Code of Criminal Procedure in force until 1994. There, the search and the items to be taken with them were discussed in § 140, the title of which was 'The removal of objects and documents in search and seizure': 'In search and seizure, the investigator must only take away the items and documents that are relevant to the criminal case. Articles and documents which may be acquired only by special authorisation and which do not exist in the present case shall be removed regardless of their connection to the criminal case. ' Rait Maruste also referred to the proportionality of this search when he said in an interview: 'I was seriously disturbed by the alleged bribe of EUR 500 that the Office of the Central Party was forced to search dozens of kapo employees. Something's totally out of place here. In a similar case, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg would not have hesitated for a moment to make a decision on this was a disproportionate use of force. The use of force must be in accordance with the objective pursued; the search of the office of the Centre Party was not. If you ignore it, the C.P.A. and the DA's office think that society approved it. Consequently, their next steps are also confirmed. Then they will soon start searching and detaining for 50 euros. The mission and provision of power structures can sometimes be useful. " That's what Rait Maruse said. There's not much more to add to his words. However, I would like to draw attention to a few things. First of all, the regulation of the search, which allows the prosecutor, as a carrier of the prosecution function, to unilaterally authorise the search, is outrageous. Apart from specific cases of the prevention of a criminal offence, searches are carried out under European law only with the permission of the court, on a discretionary basis, i.e. on the basis of the principle of the last measure. Secondly, the rights of the victim of the search need protection. The law must exclude the removal of non-relevant materials, such as computer hard drives, where there is private correspondence, etc. It has been referred to again by Rait Maruste. Thirdly, since § 43 of the Constitution allows for a breach of the confidentiality of messages only with the permission of the court, it must be taken into account when reading foreign letters, including e-mails taken away during searches. Who is responsible if people's private conversations or phone calls are leaked to the press? What might be the purpose of such an action, and why is the press subject to such manipulation? I, too, have been the victim of one of these manipulations when Ivo Parbus and Elmar Sepa were leaked into the press, which was eavesdropped in Parbus's office. Luckily, I don't mind that kind of thing, I have thick enough skin, and I've worked in these agencies too. The tape leaker served his purpose, and the journalist was commended by the editor-in-chief. What can I have against that? But there are people who go through things like this harder. This can cause them great tension or even health problems. There are inevitably a number of questions about both law enforcement and media activities. After all, we remember well that during the search, the force authorities brought along materials from the years of administration of a coalition party and one of the leading opposition parties. What is its purpose? Was all this really about a pretrial investigation? There's doubt about that. Is all information not related to the criminal investigation and not necessary to carry it out still within the walls of the investigative body and protected by the secrecy of the message? I doubt it. Previous leaks in the press don't make me feel safe. In this context, the prosecutor's office has assumed extraordinary responsibility. Of course, leaking material to the press can always be justified by the leaking of protectors. That kind of talk is comic and only meant for fools. Lawyers often read surveillance material from the press before the files have been handed over to them. Also, why should protectors be interested in taunting their clients in the press? I'm not going to stay here any longer with the one who leaks what. A very respectable lawyer has admitted to me that a journalist usually finds a flash drive with a wired and stored text in his mailbox and understands that the publication of this text has been authorised. Please note that the materials appear constantly in the same publications on the basis of the established diagrams. As a joint work between the authorities and the media, we are creating paranoid attitudes that Estonia is a corrupt country and that it is only by bribery that we can live properly here. The fact that force structures take extraordinary and vigorous action will certainly contribute to such an image. Let me remind you that Estonia is holding a good third tenth in the index of perception of corruption, which I think was 22. I therefore wonder whose interests the media and the power structures are acting on, creating mass psychoses in a small Estonian country. The demolishing attitude of the press is dangerous, often only black and white solutions exist for them and what has been achieved is insufficient. Today's Estonian press is very fragmented and diverse. A long time ago, it is difficult to consider most of this to be the fourth power. The watchdog of society is monstrous, entertaining, sensational, unanalysed, and overwhelming. On the issues that we are discussing today, the media are manipulating the opinion of the forces who do not know how or do not want to do their own work effectively. By publicising uncontextual information, these forces undermine the functioning of the state and call into question the functioning of our legal system. Such a situation cannot be tolerated by a democratic state. Such different interpretations of the law have led to the fact that the number of arrested persons per resident in Estonia is one of the largest not only in Europe but throughout the world. We are currently on the same level as the US, Russia, Latvia, Lithuania and South Africa in terms of the number of arrests per 100000 inhabitants. We have 252 people in prison per 100,000 inhabitants. We always compare ourselves with the Nordic countries: in Finland this number is 59, in Sweden 70 and in Norway 73. Even in Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey, these figures are much lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U30	Thank you very much. We'll continue with the questions. A procedural question, Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U31	Since Kadri started the subject of Anglo-Americans, I say: objective, Your Honour, please steel from record! This is because one part of Klandorf's story was imamateria, irrelevant and improper. The problem is that the honourable speaker made references to ongoing criminal cases. One of these matters is the case of cassation and the other is the case. Any reference to these matters constitutes a violation of the principle of balance of powers contrary to the Constitution. According to Anglo-American tradition, these seats should be removed from the waitress's excellent speech record. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U32	Thank you. Let's take note of that information. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U33	Thank you. Firstly, I really think that this is a matter of national importance when 56% of national citizens have been punished in one way or another. I think that's an unreasonablely high percentage. According to my information (maybe I am wrong) 40% of the members of the Riigikogu have been interviewed for one reason or another. I don't think that makes any sense. Of course, in Soviet times many things were embellished, including in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's not what I'm talking about. I am saying that we should take some of the decisions or speed up the transposition of those decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, which have gone through them, etc. We should sign them up for our Code of Criminal Procedure. If we start to monitor more closely what decisions have been taken in Europe, I dare say that we should completely rewrite the Code of Criminal Procedure, not only improve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U34	Thank you. The next questioner is Mikhail Stalnukhin, who will ask his first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, One typical phenomenon in Estonia is that before the court takes place, the prosecutor's office will send out a press release if he has brought any accusations to court. They are usually worded unambiguously: the person is guilty, he is a criminal, etc. How do you think this could work out? Perhaps it would help to make it compulsory for the prosecutor's office to include the opinion of the accused or his lawyer in press releases, or should a ban be imposed on certain forms of speech? However, when it comes to the prosecution, everything should be in the conditional language, not in the other way. How can this problem be overcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U36	Thank you. This problem is hard to overcome. I don't remember whether five, seven or more years ago, when cases of criminal investigation were handed over to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutors were also given full freedom to press. The police were banned at the time, and the DA's office took over. They were inexperienced, they couldn't talk, they didn't know what to talk about, because, let's be honest, the prosecutor has nothing to do with any criminal investigation. He may be in charge of it, but sometimes he'll only get the file once the file's been put together. So what does he know about it? As I said before, our laws may be quite normal, but the way they are enforced is a question of its own. The other way around, I don't think if the DA's office makes a press release, the lawyer should definitely start answering something there. It would turn into a vulgar word war on the journalism columns. But I do deplore the fact that a suspected party to the process is being taken to sign that he may not say anything for a long time, but the prosecutor's office can say anything. Does he always say right, I'm not convinced of that. But, you know, it depends on people, not the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U37	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U38	Thank you. Dear waitress, Perhaps this suggests that our country has a very large share of simple, urgent and settlement procedures, rather than that research has been carried out in a very high quality and there is nothing to argue about before the trial? Did you also analyse this aspect in the preparation of a matter of national importance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U39	Thank you. In fact, it could be said that there are certain paragraphs in criminal proceedings that could be subject to a settlement procedure, and there are things that cannot be resolved by a settlement procedure, but which we are still resolving through a settlement procedure. Criminal proceedings are divided into stages, we have first, second and third-level crimes. In the case of simpler steps, there can be settlement procedures, I have no doubt about that. But it happens that a person just gives up. He knows he's gonna get a little fine or a conditional penalty, and he's okay with it. In my speech on this point, which I did not reach, I was going to quote our judges who have said that, in very many cases, I have not done this study, I am referring here to the words of the judges, so that if there were a long process, so-called real proceedings, these charges would collapse in court. I don't know if it's good or bad. It's up to you to decide how to solve this. In my opinion, there are, at the moment, an unreasonable number of compromise procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U40	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject started by Mikhail Stalnukhin. As a media person, I feel very well that we have an increase in the proportion of journalists who are heavily dependent on their sources, who expect 'no' half-secret information and do not bother to control it, but put it right into the paper. But at the same time, the Prime Minister, answering my question in the Chamber of the Riigikogu regarding the Kapo Yearbook, actually said the right thing: this is the most anticipated periodical edition of the Estonian state. This means that we all understand, and so does our esteemed Head of Government, that the Estonian people are waiting for such a witch hunt. Are you not overly optimistic in this light by offering all these things, given that the people want to read this yearbook?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U42	Thank you. In general, I'm an optimistic person, but on the other hand, too much optimism is bad. As far as the most anticipated periodical edition is concerned, indeed, the Prime Minister has quoted a journalist here. What's there to deny, I'd like to read it myself. Kapo won't send it to me, but I'm still gonna get this magazine when it shows up. It's nice to see whose pictures are there from time to time. A few years ago, I even found a picture of my former good friend, Toomas Sildam. So this is the expected edition, but the question arises who is waiting for it and who will be given the information. There's also unconfirmed information. Now they say it's maybe prevention. But these are often not objective data that are disclosed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U43	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U44	Thank you. My question was meant for Kadri Samson, but he ran out of time to ask questions. I believe that Mr Klandorf is also sufficiently informed to answer that question. There is no doubt that, in the case of parliamentary democracy, all spheres of state life, including the activities of law enforcement bodies, are and should be under the control of the representatives of the people. Please confirm that, in preparing today's subject, the initiators cooperated with parliamentary structures such as the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as with free associations in the Riigikogu such as the Human Rights Group or the Civil Society Support Group. Then it would not look as if this issue was raised with the interests of one party or even of the City Government of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U45	Thank you, good questioner! Why did I get here as a representative of Tallinn? Tallinn City Government, as we know, does not have the possibility to initiate a law or amendment of the law directly. That's one. Secondly, you mentioned a number of organisations. Undoubtedly, their experiences are valuable. For the most part, what I was talking about here has been taken from the press. I've been talking to the Defense Police and Central Criminal Police officers and judges. So as far as other organisations are concerned, I have drawn my knowledge from the media and have also spoken directly to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U46	Thank you. I'm gonna make a technical note. I'm asking you to set up a watch that measures the time of the round of questions and answers! That clock isn't running right now. At the moment, two minutes and thirty seconds have passed since the beginning of the questioning. Since there is a total of 30 minutes for questions and answers, as of now, there should be about 27 minutes left. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U47	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will continue with Paul-Eerik Rummo's question, which you did not actually answer. You referred to the Department of Defense on several occasions. In this memorandum, which has been advertised here, two out of four points concern the competence and activities of the kapo. In the Riigikogu there is a special committee on the supervision of security authorities, which I belong to. I have not noticed there the attempts of the representatives of the Centre Party to shape the work plan of this committee and to bring to the Commission the points that have been reflected here today. Last time, there was no proposal for a work plan. Why is that? Where do you think it would be more appropriate to discuss these issues, either in the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities or in the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U48	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I am neither present nor able to attend the meetings of the Special Committee on Security Oversight. That is why I cannot say whether the Centre Party Group has tabled any amendments to its work plans. I am unfortunately not a member of the Central Party of the Riigikogu either. As regards where these issues are to be discussed, they should certainly be discussed in a number of places in order to draw attention to the possible shortcomings and shortcomings that perhaps exist in our laws. I do not think that the great hall of the Riigikogu would be the wrong place to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U49	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U50	Dear Mr Klandorf, I'm going to ask you a question as a person who is probably well aware of the history of our intelligence and counter-intelligence agencies. In 15 years, I've had twice a chance to watch the Minister of the Interior, with surprise, read such an act as the Yearbook of the Defence Police. I have concluded from this that the Defence Police are completely independent in publishing this work. Can you tell us when and on whose initiative such a work appeared on our reading table, and does it have analogs in the activities of counterintelligence and intelligence agencies in other countries of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U51	Thank you. I think this yearbook tradition is eight, but maybe nine years old. Eight years ago, if I remember correctly, the Director General of the Defence Police may have been Jüri Pihl, but maybe the director was already Aldis Aldis Alus. As far as other countries are concerned, I am not so familiar with it. In many countries, the Defence Police have a common structure with the police. I have read the police yearbooks, for example, in Finland such magazines appear. But for other countries, I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U52	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. performer! You said that the activities of the kapo and the crippo, or criminal police, are causing social fear. Perhaps in a few words you will expand the subject and tell us when you think this fear of society arose, immediately after regaining independence or years later?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U54	Thank you. I think it was born gradually. This trend was not evident immediately after regaining independence. In my opinion, the current Prime Minister is the first Prime Minister to say that people are being followed everywhere. These things have come out in court proceedings. It's public information. It's no secret businessmen try to get rid of their cell phones when they talk. I know offices looking for ways to make wiretap-proof offices where work meetings are held. Yes, it may be paranoid, but fear is universal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U55	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Neither in your speech, nor in the speech of the previous rapporteur, did I notice any suggestions or opinions about the functions of the special committee on supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu. I am taking this opportunity to ask what functions should be in order to exercise civil control over the defence police as a counter-intelligence institution, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the beginning of your speech, you referred to the Soviet Code of Criminal Procedure as some kind of palace. I came from Belarus yesterday and I can assure you that this code is still in force in this country, but it is certainly extremely early to talk about legality in a European sense. As an outsider, but also as an expert in the past, admitting that there may be problems with law enforcement authorities in any society and probably there are also law enforcement authorities in Estonia, can you tell us what steps the Riigikogu could take and should take after we have discussed this important issue at national level today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U58	Thank you. As far as the Defence Police Commission is concerned, it is undoubtedly a necessary committee. It's not called the Defence Police Commission, I may have gotten a little too personal. The work of this committee is necessary, but whether it is effective, that is another issue. Even if it is effective, the effectiveness of this committee is not known to the wider people, i.e. people. Maybe very specific papers could read about it. I've been doing some research. Enn Tarto claimed already in 1997, 15 years ago (it seems to me that this still applies at times, even though this committee includes some very strong professionals who may have been difficult to fool) that everything has gone their own way, there is only some sort of conversation with the Director-General of the Defence Police who talks as much as he wants, and what he wants. He said it wasn't some serious control. So if there is any change to the State Secret and the Secret Foreign Information Act, then first there must be control over the special services. I know that this Commission has its own basic regulation, which is very nice, but I think that one investigation in this committee is still incomplete. So far, there is no clear answer to where these log files went.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U59	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The beginning of their presentation was that several businessmen have addressed the Tallinn City Government with complaints that law enforcement authorities do not deal with them objectively. Has the City Government of Tallinn been approached by entrepreneurs to ask for advice on what to do if the City Government of Tallinn does not act objectively with entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U61	Thank you. Yes, I started my speech in such a way that several residents of Tallinn have recently approached Tallinn City Government, including businessmen operating in our city. They have approached us with their concerns. They have obviously not received any help from us on this issue, because we do not have the authority to do so. But that is why I stand here today, that a clear signal must be given to society, what is happening in our country and whether it will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U62	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U63	Thank you. Would it not have been more appropriate to discuss this issue as a matter of national importance at some other time, rather than at the time when the Chancellor of Justice is processing a request for the removal of immunity from two members of the Central Party Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U64	Thank you, Mr. Nestor. Unfortunately, I do not know so well about Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I've been invited here, and I'm performing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U65	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There were quite a few criticisms in both your presentation and Kadri Samson's. I would have liked to ask Kadri, but I ran out of time, and I'm gonna ask you. We handled the fundamental changes in surveillance activities in this Chamber in the spring. How do you feel that these changes, that information improves and decreases the number of types of crime to which surveillance can be applied, are sufficient? In any case, the Centre Party Group did not propose any further amendments to the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U67	Thank you. I think that the changes that you have adopted are certainly very necessary, but I do not think they are enough. I don't want to get ahead of myself. Our next speaker will be more specific about these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U68	Thank you very much. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U69	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! One aspect that you and Mr Simson spoke about today, and which has also been discussed on several occasions in the press, is that there should be a rather certain and limited period of time that should be closed or brought to court within the time allowed from the start of the criminal investigation. They've been talking about a month. What is your assessment of whether it would be possible, in the light of established practice, how many things would actually be brought to court, and would that also produce any results?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U70	Thank you. I think this pre-trial period is unreasonable. I mean, there's no deadline. Reasonable time limits should be set. I've already touched on that subject a little bit. There's still a problem here, but it's a bit longer. As for whether time should be fixed, I think, yes, it should be fixed. Our judicial system, including our country, must not work on the outcome. If we work on the result, the result is what the numbers show. As Kadri said, only 4% of the cases are discussed in general proceedings, or 96% of the cases are not discussed at all in court, or more specifically in formal proceedings, and then there will be an agreement procedure. I bring the figures a few years ago: there were 10244 criminal cases in Estonia, 815 or 8% of them were processed in general proceedings, 9429 cases, or 92% were dealt with in simple proceedings. This is how we did 9429 more criminals in Estonia in one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U71	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You talked more about the responsibility of the prosecutor's office, but there are also criminal cases initiated on the basis of statements from public officials, press articles, which are sometimes dealt with for one, two or three years. Later, they'll fall apart completely, and you won't even see a trial. People, however, are under this strong press. As an experienced person, I would like to ask you: " What can I do to increase the responsibility of all officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U73	Thank you. I have already had a few words here to say that there is a State Liability Act and there is a section on this subject in the Civil Service Act. I asked one of the executives of the power department if they hadn't thought that they could sometimes hold some of their employees accountable on these issues. But I was told that, yes, they have discussed these things among themselves (so the debate is still taking place), but this law is so damn bad that it does not exactly make it possible for anyone to be held accountable. That was his answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U74	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! We, like you, declare our economic interests to the public. Many defence police workers, as I have heard, are also active businessmen, while the public often does not know the names of defence police workers, not to mention their business interests. However, it is the Defence Police that is dealing with corruption crimes. Can't there be a conflict of interest here? Would it not be wise to place a crime investigation into corruption in the jurisdiction of the police investigating economic crimes in order to avoid such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U76	Thank you. Kadri Simson also stopped at it when he spoke of a criminal investigation. But what do I say about that? You can do that and you can do that. You know, every new thing is a forgotten old good thing. I remember when, during the Soviet times, in 1988, security officers marched into the Tallinn police government, who reported that they were now economic police officers. In fact, there was a security cleanup, and those who had handled such things there were sent to work at the police. I don't see any harm in it, they've significantly strengthened our lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U77	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U78	Thank you very much. Good waitress! When you answer your questions, you have emphasized that this or the other part of your prepared speech was not presented because of a lack of time. A lot of people don't read prints. Perhaps you will briefly refer what important issues you missed in your presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U79	Thank you. For example, applying a restraining order before prosecution. That's what I've been talking about. In short, it can be said that we are currently in a position to arrest suspects. I recall that in Soviet times, when the suspect was arrested, he had to be prosecuted within ten days, and then he became accused. The suspects are currently in custody for up to six months. I call it a shock spell. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. I have already been able to mention the relationship between the simple and the general procedure. In the final part of the speech, I would have liked to talk about who should be in control of our power structures. But on this subject, I have published articles before in the press. So anyone who's interested can read them. Those things I didn't tell you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U80	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, That's exactly what I wanted to ask you about the six-month shock spell. Turns out there's some kind of closed loop here: if there's already been a road where a person's been held for six months, then after that, even by four, he's gonna have to prove his guilt, because otherwise, I suppose, the consequences for certain workers may be severe enough. Is it not such a trick here that, when it was going to that six-month imprisonment, the investigators are in a state of compulsion and must prove something at all costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U82	Thank you. Again, I must come to the fact that every new thing is forgotten about the old one. It wasn't any different in Soviet times. During Soviet times, the person was either released during the criminal investigation or taken into custody. When a person was taken into custody, it was necessary to prove that he was guilty, otherwise sanctions were imposed on that worker. I stressed that there will now be no sanctions against workers, that the state will take the fall and pay for everything with a cold face. The other thing is what I didn't say in my speech is that taking six months into custody is an unreasonable long time. I would like to point out that a person can only appeal for his release after two months. For two months, he sits on a dull face. That's the part of the shock-freeness of the six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U83	Thank you very much. There are no more questions, and the time is up. Before the next report, we will take a two-minute break because the necessary technology for the presentation will be set up. We'll proceed at 11:32.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U84	We'll continue the trial. It's 11:32 and Leon Glikman is in the speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U85	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you so much for agreeing to hear me out! I was invited here as a legal expert and I can assure you that no party or group has put words in my mouth. I am saying this precisely because very many people who do not want to democratise the system prefer to attack the author of ideas to legal dispute, and so do the press. You can check that I have said the same in many articles and interviews, as well as in the procedural documents. But every national ambassador has the right to initiate a bill, and I am, of course, ready to go along with all democratic initiatives. The second thing I want to clarify right now is this. I am of the opinion that law enforcement authorities generally do a very good and decent job. However, it must be borne in mind that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms affects, in particular, the situation of a normal, decent person caught between the gears of the system. The Penguin doesn't respect much of the convention. However, ordinary citizens, who have suffered extremely seriously in unfounded cases, whose health, property, reputation, etc. have been destroyed, are very numerous. I dare say that a large part of my civilian clientele has been subjected to state attacks on one or the other road, which is not normal in itself. The problem is, in particular, that our criminal justice laws, as well as the regulation of surveillance activities, do not meet the requirements of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In fact, we should switch to a completely new system of criminal proceedings. It would take a lot of time, of course, but it would be a long time ago to make any necessary changes. I call on you to do this. Administrative and civil proceedings are probably among the best in the European Union. They are modern, fair and correspond to everything provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Unfortunately, the rules of criminal proceedings are far from such. I think that the most urgent changes should be adopted. I'm talking about them. Of course I'm not a legislator, I can just give advice. I will also make a critical remark. In my opinion, more and more legislative changes restricting fundamental rights go too easily through the Riigikogu. I have not, frankly, seen a strong parliamentary debate on these issues. For example, if § 43 of the Constitution expressly states that the secrecy of a message may be violated only with the permission of the court, then I do not believe that a law permitting such interference on the basis of a prosecutor's order should be passed. What are the biggest accidents in our criminal proceedings? This is, first of all, an inquisitional pre-trial investigation and, second of all, surveillance. Estonia is small. Few things come from here to the European Court of Human Rights and this court deals with a very small number of matters. But when we look at the non-exhaustive list, we see that the violation of fundamental rights is, however, a systematic recurring issue. If the European Court of Human Rights says that such a procedure is contrary to the Convention, and there is another solution that says again about Estonia that it is a violation of the Convention, then there is still a great deal to think about. The same applies, for example, to the retroactive effect of the Penal Code. This procedural system has led to what has already been said by previous speakers. First of all, there are almost no acquittals, which is why there is going to be an agreement procedure. A full acquittal of 0.6% of this is something that took place during the Soviet era. I'm not saying this, of course, because I miss this time, but at the time, a lot of things were sent back to a pre-trial investigation that is not being done right now. The number of people arrested is beyond comprehension. There's more than half the guilty population in the criminal record. One problem here is the lack of procedural law, which creates a complete sense of hopelessness, a background of fear and also uncertainty about the future. The main problem, as I have already mentioned, is the inquisitional pre-trial investigation. Whoever thought of taking over this system from the Soviet era and why it has not been reformed is completely incomprehensible to me. In one article, I compared it to an old Mosquichi in the backyard, which will ruin the garden and never drive again. It is not possible to establish competing legal proceedings for such a vulgar system. Competitive court proceedings based on inquisitional pre-trial investigations are automatically incorrect because it is anything to build on a rotten foundation, it simply does not work. In a pre-trial investigation, the parties are not equal. The EPPO shall have special rights to the accused person and to the lawyer who, in essence, does not have any rights, with the exception of the formal right to apply. No one, of course, has the obligation to accept these requests and these requests are not satisfied. I myself have experienced a ban on accepting alibi evidence. Since legal ethics doesn't allow me to name specific things, I'm not going to do that right now. However, according to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which are mandatory for us, the principle of 'equal weapons' must be guaranteed. Recently, a resolution was made against Estonia, Leas versus Estonia. You probably know that. The accused was not introduced to the evidence on which the surveillance activities were based and therefore the rights of defence could not be exercised. The European Court of Human Rights found violations of fundamental rights. Since then, the Supreme Court has made one resolution that is in line with the Leas v. Estonia, but I, for example, have not yet been able to read the materials underlying the surveillance activities. There is, in fact, no need to invent anything new, as the European Court of Human Rights has fully disbanded what is an honest, competitive and equal procedure. It should simply be transposed into our procedural law. The fight against crime would not be reduced, but the law would simply be in line with the Convention. In addition, it would free up very large resources, because things are really being dealt with at the moment. These resources could be used to combat serious conventional crime. The previous speakers already spoke about the deadlines for the pre-trial procedure. They should be introduced. There is virtually no such procedural system anywhere in the European Union as in Estonia, which is why it is also difficult to find a European Court of Human Rights ruling on this issue. But there is something similar in Russia and there are also solutions against Russia. The European Court of Human Rights has rightly said that a person cannot be put in a precarious position for such a long time. But right now, any criminal case can be marinated for no matter how long, even though a person may not have any quality of life over the years, his health will be destroyed, he can't carry himself out, he can't operate in business, and so on. Some people spend quite a while in custody. The principle of the European Court of Human Rights is that these deadlines start not with arrest as an extreme measure, but with the first violation of fundamental rights, whatever it is. Once a person has been eavesdropped, a search has been made, he has been summoned to the referee, time will be counted from this moment. Why can't these procedural deadlines be imposed, it's completely incomprehensible to me. They could be dependent on whether the person is a party to the proceedings or not. If it's a latent crime and there's no suspect, let him deal with it as long as he wants. However, if the fundamental rights of a person are to be restricted, this limit should initially be for example two months, as was the case in the Soviet era, and the investigating judge could extend the time limit, as the case may be. If we really managed to find some evidence and convince the investigating judge with them, why not? But the current uncertainty is completely unacceptable. The second thing that relates to this is the damage compensation system, which has been brought to the attention of the Supreme Court and many legal scholars. The problem here, of course, is very big. At present, it is the case that the risks associated with undue suspicion or accusation are borne by the person against whom such unjustified attack has been committed. That's a lie. This risk must be borne by the State and therefore must be compensated. There are several constitutional bases here. First, § 25 of the Constitution provides for compensation for damage without reservation of any law. Secondly, I think that the principle of equal treatment is very important here. The fact that the state chose one person as the object of the attack must not put the person at a disadvantage. This is the principle of equal treatment, let's say, the initial phase. Therefore, the person subject to such proceedings must be put as close as possible to such a situation as possible if there were no undue suspicion or accusation. For example, if, for example, the person now is deprived of unjustified liberty or infinitely marinated at the investigator's office and a search is made in his home, he will essentially not receive adequate compensation, even if he is not guilty. However, according to § 22 of the Constitution, he is not guilty until a judgment has been delivered. This is also due to the Convention. Another thing that is very bad about our procedural law is the principle of 'absolute procedure'. The question is that an appeal, a hint, a newspaper article, anything is enough, and the defendant is obliged to start a very burdensome procedure. Nobody needs it, and I don't think it's like that anywhere in the world. You should still be absolutely clear about the facts pointing to the crime in order to deal with the case. The second point, which refers to a completely stetistic and paternalistic system, is the absence of private charges. I don't know another country in a world where there's no private charge at all. Even in Soviet times, many crimes against individuals were private charges. Why they don't exist, it's completely incomprehensible. If the victim does not want to be dealt with, why is it necessary to deal with it? There would be a lot of resources left over and there would be a way to deal with serious crime. Another problem is court proceedings. Where an indictment has been brought before a court, it must, in any event, be brought to an end on the basis of the current procedural law. Sometimes it lasts years. Very often, in my practice, I see that the prosecutor's office has no evidence, the judge sees, and the judges see that there is no evidence. Why can't a judge, like anywhere else in the world, close the case at the request of the accused or on his own initiative? It would save a huge amount of resources again. The courts are very overburdened, so they can focus on more serious matters. After all, the lack of evidence is already apparent at the trial. If you can see that the charges cannot be proved, the judge could give you an additional deadline, say that he has not been persuaded, and just close the case. That's how it's done all over the world. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms definitely contradicts the regulation of arrest. This has also been highlighted by the European Court of Human Rights. I showed the solutions made against Estonia on the slides. Mr Klandorf rightly mentioned that verification of the merits of the arrest can be requested after two months. I'll be more specific. The Court does not have to make any reasoned order in this regard at all, and the examination of the merits is also not subject to appeal. Imagine what it means to sit down for two months! The general deadline will be six months. I say from my own experience that without a final judgment (therefore a person cannot be considered guilty) people in prison who are not at all dangerous to others, though small-scale bribers and takers, are supposed to be computer criminals. Such people do not sit in prison in the European judicial area; in the worst case, they wear an electronic guard. Prison punishment is very expensive! Another problem is that a person does not have any effective procedure for defending himself. A person does not see the evidence on which they want to put him in prison. He doesn't exactly have any chance of exercising his rights of defence, and he's groping in the dark. However, it is not possible for him to bring his Witnesses, as everywhere else in the world, to show that he is not likely to be so bad a person who should surely be imprisoned. One of the worst children of pain in Estonia is the regulation of surveillance activities. It should definitely be changed. Mr Jents asked about the changes to be made in 2013. I think, I'm sorry, they're kind of scary, because they're still, and they're gonna increase the surveillance base. It is now possible to find an object of confiscation, for example, if it is thought to be in the possession of a person. The pretext may be the preparation of the alleged crime, but the preparation of the crime is usually not criminalised at all (let's exclude some elements such as terrorist acts). We have 70% of the penal code's membership for surveillance. This is more than in Moldova, who has been beaten for this by the European Court of Human Rights. We are satisfied with almost all requests for surveillance. Moldavian got hit for 90%. The European Court of Human Rights said that there is therefore no substantive control. But why is it missing? Because our law does not comply with the Convention. The law should dismantle the grounds for exercising the right of discretion by the court: what fundamental rights are being violated, which person, whether the pursuit is reasonably foreseeable to the person, whether the person has put himself in a position to be pursued. The "numerus claus" principle is usually used in the European judicial area. I will say, as a last sentence, that an important violation is also that surveillance activities are not essentially disputed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U86	Thank you very much for the waitress. We go to questions and answers. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. performer! When we listened to your speech, we became pretty scared when we heard that about 10,000 people were convicted a year, and we were already at the level of Moldavian for surveillance. Distrust is so common in society. As a experienced lawyer, do you think that this is an Estonian national character or a generation's nature, or is the regime itself becoming anti-human, as has been revealed in this Chamber today? There's gotta be a reason when things are so bad and the numbers are so horrible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U88	I believe in equality between people, which is why I am saying that it is certainly not of a national nature. These are shortcomings in legal regulation. If the law were to spell out exactly where surveillance is permitted, which is not, what the court must consider when granting the surveillance permit, and if the number of formations where surveillance can be carried out were to be reduced, I believe that everything would be in place. I'm not saying surveillance is bad as a whole. This is really necessary to detect serious crimes. In the European Union, such crimes are usually not just crimes that threaten national security, but also, for example, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking on a large scale. But what's important is that a normal person doesn't become a victim of surveillance. Unfortunately, we have the possibility that even communication with a civil servant will lead to the possibility that you will be eavesdropped. Secondly, as has already been mentioned, you may also be in the press with regard to your statements and even before the files have been received by the defenders and the accused. I think the problem here is still a very bad law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U89	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! You have said that you have not seen, during the 30-year period of lawyers, 10 years of which were part of the Soviet period, a case as unproven as the land change process, which unfortunately continues and which resulted in the wiping out of the map of one party. How much do you think our power structures are dealing with the persecution and repression of the opposition, and do you think this process is political?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U91	I would not like to comment on those cases that are still pending. I can say, on the basis of a broader generalisation, that some things in the Soviet era, when everything was really terrible, would have gone to further study and then quietly passed out. Even then, there were probably about as many acquittals as there are now. But, yeah, things were sent back and they stopped. The current procedural law does not allow for the return of cases; they must be dealt with. However, whether this is a persecution of the opposition, I would not like to answer that now, because it is once again linked to a particular case. As we can see, things are also being dealt with in relation to coalition partners. In my opinion, such procedures are disproportional and pointless. All resources should be put in the control of serious crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U92	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation first. My question concerns the behaviour, statements and actions of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the leading state prosecutor. At the end of May, I was surprised to read the news: 'The leading state prosecutor, Heili Sepp, called on people to report such cases after four hours of interrogation by reform party Silver Meikari and promised them immunity. ' I ask you, as a very well-known and experienced lawyer, if the leading state prosecutor and the prosecutor's office already allow indulgence in immunity, is it in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U94	Again, I have to say that I do not want to comment on the current case. However, I do not find in the procedural law a provision that would allow an agreement to be made, as is the case in the Anglo-American countries, that one gets immunity and the other gives testimony. It is a matter of discretion for the prosecutor to conclude a criminal case on the basis of the principle of opportunity, for example, by helping to identify the truth. But the law doesn't provide for such a form of agreement. So if this unfortunate person gives statements and then demands the performance of the contract, there is no legal basis for it. There is a balancing mechanism in the Anglo-American system; it is not possible to base a conviction on the statements of the person with whom an agreement has been made. But we are able to base a conviction on the statements of the person concerned, on the statements of one person, on co-indicted statements and even on a set of circumstantial evidence. We do not have this balanced mechanism. We couldn't actually make a deal like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U95	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Much has been said about the effectiveness of civil control and the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of people in this Chamber before. A special committee on the supervision of security authorities has been set up in the Riigikogu. I dare say that this Commission has all the powers to carry out civil control in the 'best way'. But how likely do you think it is that for some reason a criminal case has been brought against someone, that person has been tracked, eavesdropped, that recording devices have been installed in his quarters, etc., but that person will never know that a criminal case has been brought against him? What about information?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U97	The question consisted of two parts. Firstly, the competence of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities is, of course, much lower than in other parliamentary democracies. In established democracies, such committees have the rights of a judge. If they are not given statements or false statements, it will be considered a criminal offence. Such committees also have the right to request documents, audit on the spot, etc. We are still limited to hearing reports from this committee. So this is not quite the case, but I am not saying that this monitoring could not be done better within the current framework. However, this is already a matter of the Security Authorities Act, not of the Procedural Law. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for judicial review. But the information system is poor. According to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, any person generally has the right to know if he or she has been subjected to surveillance activities. We have this in the procedural law, perhaps in more detail in the law that will be in force on 1 January 2013. But the problem is, there's a whole lot of reservations and they're definitely gonna be used. It is purely the discretion of the prosecutor, whether or not he informs. But even if he does, what does it give? The possibility of challenging surveillance is close to zero. According to the current law, a suspect or accused person cannot do this at all; they can only do so during the trial, not any more. The person who was, for example, a conversant with the accused is theoretically able to turn to the administrative court, but all of this is not regulated. Knowing that you have to be more careful sometimes is also very little to do. My practice has shown that, in fact, completely obvious jokes or language debacles are regarded as evidence or suspicion. Man cannot avoid these dangers. In short, the competence of this committee is inadequate and the law is also inadequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U98	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. That should make us all think. But here's my question. We often read in the media that someone has been suspected or accused, but then it turns out that these people have been acquitted. I understand that they cannot claim compensation from the state for moral damage. But can they demand it from the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U100	In fact, the law has improved in this respect. Usually, the law has limited cancer and fundamental rights, but there have been changes in the case of witnesses that the witness may accompany a support person, such as a lawyer or someone else. That precludes a direct threat to the witness. On the other hand, the inquisitional pre-trial investigation again raises a huge problem: the witness is called out, he is interrogated for a long time, the judge writes what he likes, the sponsor cannot ask questions, but after that, the witness is involved in his testimony before the court. Very often, the witness wants to give a different statement in court because he was inevitably under pressure during the interrogation. Then his previous statements will be published and they'll say he's either telling the truth or telling the truth now, but in any case, there's a criminal case for false sayings. That's one very big problem. On the other hand, this is not the way to deal with him, but on the example of a bank extract, I have to say that I do not know the country where banking secrecy would be less protected. It is sufficient that the defendant simply makes an inquiry to the bank, and there is no procedure for doing so. Elsewhere, you usually need a judge's permission, then you just get these documents. According to the Procedural Act, a person may be shown his or her data, which is protected by bank secrecy, and in the end, this is all bank secrecy in the file. Of course, this is not directly in line with fundamental rights, but at least there has been some progress in the sense that a witness can bring a lawyer. Before, the system was totally depressing. But yes, if statements are to be used against a person, he has the right to refuse to give statements. However, it is not always very easy to do so, because it is immediately answered that he is then guilty and is now being questioned as a suspect. A stronger person doesn't break, but the weaker one breaks. I have never seen a law enforcement authority force a witness to give false statements in practice, but I know many cases when trying to write down these statements at a certain angle, as was the case for the defendant. If a Witness is a strong personality, he asks for correction, otherwise he will not sign, and that will be done. But if he's been under pressure for a very long time, he's still giving statements that are favorable to the charges, and he's connected to them in court. Again, this is one of the idiots of this inquisition procedure. Everywhere else in the world, witnesses from both sides are called before the judge, and then there is the right to cross-examination. That's how the truth is discovered. I don't understand why it's feared.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U101	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U102	Thank you. Good colleague! You have talked for a long time about the fact that we have a very high percentage of convictions, and that there is also a great deal of authorisation for surveillance by judges. You also mentioned that these percentages were the same in Soviet times. The judges are known to be appointed for life. After all, many judges come from the previous system or have been involved in the previous system. Do you think there might be a connection here? Will the adversarial procedure not work for us if the judges are appointed for life? Shouldn't the reform be about changing something here, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U103	I will be honest with you that I know of judges from the old system who have made many acquittal decisions and judges from the new system who have made convictions that have been annulled. I don't think these things are very highly correlated. The problem is firstly a very poor procedural law that does not guarantee the rights of defence. If you can't exercise the rights of defence, you can't convince the judge that a person is not guilty. Another reason is probably the system of training judges. More clarification should be given as to what is European practice, how the European Court of Human Rights is looking at matters and what is the system for assessing evidence elsewhere. But that's a very interesting question. For example, if I went to a civil court with evidence like the prosecutor goes to a criminal court, I'd be in terrible trouble. I think the judge would call the barrister's honor court and say that lawyer Glikman's gone crazy, he's gonna come and bother the court with some totally pointless stuff, even though there's no evidence. But in a criminal case, the evidence goes through, the standard of evidence is quite different. If I could argue in criminal matters on the basis of the same law and the same evidence base, it would be a total blessing. But in fact, criminal law is related to human rights, and the Code of Criminal Procedure should be much more liberal than the Code of Civil Procedure. In fact, however, this is not the case. For example, no case of compensation would go through a civil court with evidence that goes through a lot of bribery or some pretty serious criminal cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U104	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My second question concerns the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu. How do you understand the current law? Can the home of a member of the Riigikogu be searched? How do you even understand, within the framework of current laws, the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U106	It's a very confusing subject. In parliamentary democracy, the idea of this immunity is that a Member of Parliament can freely express the will of the voters, that he is completely independent and that he can speak in Parliament what he wants. In essence, this immunity does not work. I don't know any cases of waiver of immunity. There may have been some, but I haven't heard from them. I think that, when it comes to investigating the activities of a member of the Riigikogu, immunity should in any case be guaranteed. After all, law enforcement agencies are not voters. It is still the voter who decides whether a member of the Riigikogu is worthy enough to represent him, not the law enforcement body. I think it would be completely wrong if it were just enough for the judge to press charges, for example, and, right, a member of the Riigikogu is a forced toss. The second question is if this procedure is not at all linked to the activities of a national representative. For example, if a member of the Riigikogu drives someone drunk to death, then it is different. Then the waiver of immunity is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U107	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question to you is perhaps too black and white, to a certain extent intentionally. If the law requires the prosecutor's office to lead an investigation, to carry it out, to collect evidence of accusation, not to find out the truth or, in certain cases, to dismiss it, what more can we really ask of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U109	Yes, they can. The submission of false statements is unlawful in itself, regardless of whether the Supreme Court has stated whether the data is based on someone else's opinion, personal belief or rumor. So it can be demanded. But the case law is that the sums you send are very bad. If they go to court against the media, I would advise the customers not to claim any compensation for property at all, but simply to demand that this message be rejected. Usually the media's gonna disprove it itself, but he's gonna do it somewhere on the last page. If a criminal case goes off with a big aplomb, the article will appear on some of the first pages and the article will appear as if the person was definitely guilty. There's usually no doubt about it. But if the case is acquitted, there's not much media coverage. It is, yes, the peculiarity of our media. In other media authorities, we'd rather have doubts, we don't have it for some reason. I'm not a media scientist, I can't explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U110	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U111	Dear colleague, thank you for your brilliant performance, as always! So far, I knew, and there has been an opinion among our colleagues that there are deep mistakes in our criminal proceedings, but they have always seemed to be individual mistakes. After your presentation, I understand that our criminal proceedings need capital reform and human rights violations are programmed into criminal proceedings. Now the question to you personally: since we became lawyers on the other side of the Atlantic, tell me, please, have you asked yourself afterwards what happened here in Estonia in the early 1990s, that such criminal proceedings could even have happened? How did that happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U112	I've been thinking about this inquisitional pre-trial procedure myself. It was probably convenient, the Soviet system was simply taken over, and it worked somehow. Then they tried to put it in a competitive procedure, which is not possible, because they are conflicting systems. That was the case, and now, unfortunately, they don't want to give it up. I could give it up for a while. You are absolutely right that the system needs a very thorough reform and a new law. But if a couple of dozen legislative changes were to bring the procedure more or less into line with the Convention, this would be quite a step forward. Actually, you can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U113	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Today, quite a lot has been said about the need to regulate the procedural deadlines for criminal investigations, and you yourself touched on this in your report. But today there has been no talk about the trial stage. We know of cases where pre-trial investigations have been dragging on for years, but there are also cases where people have been plagued by years of trial. Do you think it would be possible to improve something here by setting deadlines? The other part of the question deals with the sensitive issue, which you have just touched upon, the media. When you ironize, you may ask if it is necessary to hold a trial. Because we are often convicted for the first time when proceedings are opened, for the second time when suspicion is raised, and for the third time when prosecution is brought. What's more of a trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U115	In itself, there could also be time limits in court proceedings. However, they should only apply if the accused does not cause the case to be delayed. Often, it is the accused who is dragging things over. However, it would probably be better if it were a discretionary decision of the court: if the judge sees that no evidence can be presented within a reasonable period of time, he will simply close the proceedings. Such an end is the result of an acquittal decision everywhere in the world. If the accused wants a substantive acquittal, then it is a matter of its own, then the case must be brought to an end. Yeah, I've dealt with it. Unfortunately, according to our procedural law, I must not ask the prosecutor to finally show me where there is evidence that my client has promised to bribe or bribe. Let him show us, and we can move on. You don't usually show it. The judge will see that there is no such thing. Then the court could close the case. I am not sure whether this should be linked to procedural deadlines, as things are very and very different. But the second question concerned the media, I forgot the exact wording. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U116	This can be clarified by Kalle Jents with the following question. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U117	Thank you for this serious report. You spoke very much about the lack of guarantee of the rights of suspects and accused persons. I was worried about that. Instead, my question concerns the rights of witnesses and the practice of Estonia in comparison with the rest of Europe. To illustrate my question, let me give an example. A person is called as a witness in some form of suspicion, but in the course of this meeting he or she will be presented with bank statements or other documents. This means that certain procedural measures have been taken regarding him as a witness. The witness, in fact, has no right to refuse to testify. How should the witness act in such a case? Are these rights sufficiently regulated in Estonia or may there also be a violation of fundamental rights here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U118	That is a very legitimate question. Originally, the prosecutor's office and also the defendant had an objective and comprehensive obligation to investigate. It should be impervious to an inquisitional pre-trial investigation that we have survived because of some strangeness. But right now, the D.A.'s office is just an indictment function. Consequently, he is only interested in finding evidence of guilt, not in any way in order to receive any supporting evidence. There is no point in inquisitive pre-trial investigation, because then the principle of investigation should function. If they also refuse to accept evidence from a lawyer, then it is simply a matter of being thrown into court and it is entirely one-sided. Although the lawyer presents his evidence, the procedural quirk must once again bring this whole thing to an end even if the judge sees that the evidence is not really there or that it is disproved. For some reason, the principle of a comprehensive objective investigation has been removed. That could be the case, but then there should also be a balancing mechanism, a lawyer should have an equal right to produce evidence. In many countries this is the case. The protection shall apply for the collection of evidence and shall be compulsory to satisfy it, unless the certificate appears not to be relevant. Then there's a mechanism, but we don't have a mechanism. One has all special rights to the accused and the other has no rights or means at all. That's the problem with the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U119	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U120	Thank you, Madam President. I am not actually sure that this question is right to ask you, but I will ask you. Kadri Simson said in his report that we have 440000 people in the criminal record. In essence, this means that every other adult resident is in a criminal record. Do you think this is "appropriate" to our behaviour, or are there countries in the world where all residents are in criminal records, that is perfectly normal and there is not much to fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U121	It concerns both offences and crimes, but it certainly does not correspond to the behaviour of our people. I haven't seen a bigger percentage anywhere. I guess the country is a little more spiteful than anywhere else. I do not feel much more criminogenicity in Estonia than in some other European countries where I am moving, quite the contrary, because in the evening you can walk peacefully, no one will attack. But we have a high percentage of punishment for some reason. Apparently, this high percentage has been caused by ordinary decent people who are so-called caught. Let's just say the focus is too much on ordinary people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U122	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question! We have one minute to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U123	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You said that there is a major problem with the protection of bank data in Estonia. How do you justify that? Could it be because the parent banks are in other countries? What could be the reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U124	It is governed only by national law. Even if it is a branch of a foreign bank, it is still subject to Estonian law. I don't want to mention specific things, but I've been to a foreign court myself because Interpol wanted access to my client's account. This problem was solved by the judge. The decision was subject to appeal when the decision was taken against the person, but when the decision was taken in favour of the person, for example Interpol could no longer appeal. In my opinion, it is really abnormal that everyone can access a bank account, including bailiffs. This list is so long. That, too, is a private matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U125	Thank you very much for the waitress. The time for questions and answers is over and we will move on to the next point, which is the negotiations. First, there will be representatives of the political groups. Please, as representative of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U126	Ladies and gentlemen, We concluded that the criminal law system based on Soviet education and on Finnish television cannot guarantee human rights. This is what we have received since 1994. I agree with Väino Linde and I want to support her. This, unfortunately, is also one of today's conclusions: what can we demand in the case of such a law? This is the law we have made, which inevitably results from the fact that one or the other person, whether a prosecutor or an employee of the Treasury, will do it or another. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U127	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U128	One of the most famous historical figures Ivan the Cruel has said in the letter to Sadbsk: "We are not all human. ' In what case is man free? A person is free when his superiors are not free in their activities. The principle of separation of powers is designed for this purpose. This is not a division of labour, it is a matter of principle. The legislator cannot carry out its own decisions. There's nothing the government can do if it doesn't have the money the legislator doesn't give. There's nothing a court can do if there's no law, and a court can't do a lot of things unless there's executive power. As soon as those three things come together, the three of them will be able to fight a person up there. We have spoken of the separation of powers as a constitutional principle. But it goes deeper than it looks. There's been a crazy case: the police body that's conducting the investigation, the searcher and the expert were the same person. Oh, my God, how is that possible? Of course, the court threw out that evidence. Merging a searcher and an expert simply means that an expert is looking for the things that could lead to an expert's assessment. That's it. It must not, in principle, be! It's a fake. Let's keep going. We can say that there are internal controls and that there is parliamentary control. I don't know about Estonia, but after reading foreign books, I have to say that internal control leaders are probably the people who are the first to break the law. At least it's in the United States, France and elsewhere. As far as I know, Moose was some kind of internal controller. The second thing is that internal control is not replaced, as it now turns out, by Parliament as well. As far as I know, the members of the Special Committee on Security Oversight are all honest, good, hard-working people and people with conscience. But what can they do? They must not do anything because parliamentary scrutiny is symbolic, there are no procedural rights, etc. In other words, we have a legal system that is actually out of control. They say the DA's office does, but the court checks. Wait! The court will check in five, six or seven years, if it ever gets there. It would be good if the court were to discuss matters more quickly. But in my opinion, the goal is for the matter to come to the hands of someone who is not the judge. The special feature of the Estonian criminal process is that they want to make life easy and fun for the country. We are talking about efficiency, speed and rationality, and then we wonder how such processes are possible. We have equal courts: the Defence Police, the Bar Association, the Prosecutor's Office and the Estonian Express. In fact, no instance is missing, because otherwise the process will not start in our system. We're sinners ourselves. Marika, I'm sorry, but your question was very incorrect. You saw how my colleague couldn't answer you because he had to stay sensitive. The Riigikogu must also not deal with any pending matter. If it had been up to me, I would have been the chair of the hearing when you used the word 'change of land' to say, 'Out of the word. " Because the court has the right to freedom. What happens next? There was a lot of talk about procedural deadlines and other matters here. Let me add one more thing. The long-standing idea of the Reform Party is to restore procedural deadlines. I hope it goes faster now. Currently, the time limit for proceedings is defined as'reasonable'. Do you remember Murphy's law: "How long a minute is it depends on which side of the bathroom door you're on?" Two days in prison is definitely a much longer time than two months on a sunny beach in Nice. We have proved with our lives and everything that the understanding of a reasonable deadline in the Estonian state has been completely distorted. Time limits are the first thing to start with. But that's far from the last thing. I am very grateful to Leon that, thanks to him, not because of my eternal whining anymore, there has been a very important understanding in this Chamber: this is not about three paragraphs, but the criminal process is about the cross between the pig and the cuckoo today, we are lucky to have so few people locked up and that we have such good processes, because the law would make it worse. I would say this: Estonia must be returned. By 'Estonia', I do not mean the country, but the people of Estonia have to ask for their country back. They need to build it so that the words 'prosecutor', 'court', 'defence police', etc., do not give rise to fear that they will not see them as an ax or a club, as institutions dealing with political matters. I don't think, by the way, any of these institutions are connected to any political party. They're all just doing their own personal and not always respectable thing. Bureaucracy always justifies itself, at your expense and at my expense. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U129	Thank you very much. Let me be clear: do the representatives of the other groups not wish to speak in the negotiations? First of all, I will give the floor to the representatives of the political groups. Please, Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U130	Good afternoon, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, speakers. In my opinion, today it was a situation in which we dealt with two completely different items on an agenda item. One of them was the presentation by Honorable Attorney-at-Law Leon Glikman of the situation we have in the context of the violation of fundamental rights in criminal proceedings and the possibilities to improve the situation. The second item on the agenda was a matter of national importance, which could be dealt with by the CPO and the prosecutor's office. I very much hope that in the next few times when the political groups are preparing for a debate on a matter of national importance, we will all do something different, so that we have the materials that can be used to look the other way (this does not mean that we should not be observant when dealing with a particular point) and can also gather different views. We have a great deal of concern about some sort of influence going on. Following the call of Igor Gräzin, I will not take that one word in my mouth, but I came across last night to watch a television channel that spreads across Estonia without money. I saw that the editor-in-chief of one esteemed paper also discussed how things had been going on in our judicial system and how the arrest of a politician in 2003 even affected things so much that another government was being done. Ridiculous! I can tell you calmly that the countryside will continue after the People's Union has disappeared, be it in the process? Tomorrow, the draft state budget bill will be handed over and farmers will receive EUR 24.3 million in direct payments. Now for the flagrantity of a specific law. Mr Jents has already pointed out that when we dealt with bill 175, which dealt with matters of criminal procedure and precisely surveillance, no party actually tabled amendments in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Not only did the Centre Party not even participate in the final vote on this draft. When it comes to the proposals that are being made in this so-called memorandum, it must be said that, of course, there is also the objective of non-discovery of crimes. When we are talking about changing the situation, for example, that in the case of a search, everything that can be searched should be written down and, at the same time, we say that there is a huge violation of fundamental rights relating to the attitude to private letters, we take, for example, a search like this, when it says on the warrant that two cheques are being sought or a cash transfer check. In that case, we would not be discussing (more precisely, we are not discussing, but it is being discussed by the relevant authorities) how the private correspondence of one person will end up where it should not end up. Now I'm talking about who's supposed to do the judges' security check. They are known to be exposed to state secrets and therefore need to be checked. I do not think there is any reason to believe that, if this security check is carried out by the kapo officials, the eggs of the so-called judges will be in the hands of the Kapo officials for the rest of their lives (the judges will indeed be appointed for life). This isn't serious. It is certainly not an organisation to decide whether or not a candidate for a judge is fit for office. There's been a lot of talk about kapo's roles. That is the will of the legislator. Corrections have also been made in relation to the procedures that should be carried out by the Defence Police Department. I'm sure it's on our desk. Now for the jury idea. I say so, as Mr Reiljan has said, I am not a top lawyer, but I think this is certainly an intellectually interesting idea, but we will not find this point in the electoral promises of the Centre Party in the run-up to the next Riigikogu elections. But I don't know. With regard to Leon Glikman's presentation, we certainly received a series of ideas for the legislative process, the analysis of which is worth working on when dealing with the drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U131	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group in Andres Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U132	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take eight minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U133	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U134	When I came here, I had relatively mixed expectations of what to expect from this day forward, from this debate on a very important national issue. All in all, I got two in one, like a good old anti-dandruff shampoo. I'll start the discussion on the other side. I was listening to the performance of a respected lawyer named Glikman. He highlighted the many problems that I myself or some other opposition colleagues have brought out of this panel, as well as some coalition colleagues. This concerns a certain degree of bias in our criminal proceedings, precisely in the direction that over the years, excessive freedoms or rights have been granted to the procedural authorities that should guarantee legal protection. The reason can be very simple: we are resting in such a comfortable bed, both in politics and in the executive. Clearly, it is more comfortable to eat in bed than to stand up and go to the table. That is why many processes have taken place to facilitate criminal proceedings, especially for the benefit of investigators. Let me remind you a little bit of the story of this law. The current law, which we criticised most here, that is, the new Code of Criminal Procedure, was adopted on 12 February 2003 by the coalition at that time, the Central Party and the Reform Party. As a relatively new person in the Riigikogu, but, let's say, as an ancient political observer, I dare express my opinion. The first part of today's debate was, at least for me, like one Estonian TV show 'Two strong'. We have heard accusations about how the prosecutor's office is tilted, the kapo is spying on almost all Estonian citizens and non-citizens, the media is essentially a manipulator who moves all our consciousness and minds, and we have heard that all this is somehow biased towards the power party. However, when we look at this critic, what do we see? We can see that more than 60% of the employees in the same law enforcement agency in Tallinn are members of one party (fortunately, we in a large country, as they say there is no) and we see a media that, in my opinion, manipulates a person more than any other media that is much more dependent than what we are offered for free across Estonia on paper and perhaps even at night through free distribution on television. What am I saying? What I'm trying to say is that the two great strong men here today, to some extent, could look in the mirror and perhaps criticize themselves. How has it happened that the same two political parties are currently in the same legal protection and are the most important and important subject of interest in the same media? Very simple. I think that the problem is that people are getting away from the people, and that people want to hear what happens to you, how you are doing, and how you may soon, together, adopt the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the prosecutor's office has even more rights, and then maybe you really don't need a trial at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U135	Thank you very much. Let me be clear: does Mikhail Stalnukhin appear on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party? Not on behalf of the Group. In that case, I give the floor to Kalle Laanet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! I will begin with the words of the American pastor and theologian Reinhold Niebuhr: the sense of human justice makes democracy possible, but its tendency to injustice makes it necessary. Justice is always such a twofold thing. When the President said before that he would first give the floor to the representatives of the political groups, and only then to me, it is also a question of a sense of justice. As a representative of the Democrats, I felt that my sense of justice had been violated. In my opinion, today's debate is largely built on the fact that the sense of justice has been violated when people or organisations who have been given windfire at somewhere feel affected by it, not when there are agreed rules in a democratic society and they try to follow and follow them. On very many occasions, we tend to go down the road that the goal consecrates any measure that I think is not right. However, speaking of this day, I must admit that the issues addressed here are certainly worth discussing: liability, deadlines for criminal proceedings, etc. This should, at least during the preparatory phase, be dealt with by specialists and then give us Members some kind of product to work through. But this certainly does not mean that we should discuss this issue politically in this large Chamber, which does not lead to anywhere, or only to the fact that it is dealt with to a lesser or greater extent in the media. However, the media dealt with this precisely because of who or what this media publication belongs to. Everything is very relative in that sense. In my opinion, we should be able to go beyond personal and party interests on certain issues, especially those concerning justice and the rule of law. We must see the country and the people as a whole. That's all that matters. If the initiators of the subject do not see the log in their eyes, but see the splinters in the eyes of others, I think this may make the debate on this subject a little ridiculous in this Chamber. In fact, however, the subject is substantive and necessary. So I wish all my colleagues the strength and wisdom to deal with the issues in substance. I'll finish Henry Ford saying, "Don't look for guilt, look for medicine. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U137	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U138	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't like theorizing, so I'm going to tell another particular story. You may be interested in this because you are the people, men and women with whom exactly the same story can happen at any time. It's not up to you. Once upon a time, there was a nice man in Narva, in Ida-Virumaa, who became the deputy mayor of Narva. Speaking of his personal financial situation, his wife received a gift or an inheritance from her parents, I don't know exactly, a small apartment in Narva-Jõesuu. 26 square meters was the total area of this apartment. The apartment was in very bad shape, and the man started repairing it. The deputy mayor doesn't have time for this job, so he hired a company. He signed a contract and made all the payments three at a time. Everything was officially done. I think every one of us could happen the exact same way, there's nothing weird about it. Strange things came a little later. One day policemen came to his office and a large number of journalists stood before the government. The cabinet was searched, the man had his hands twisted behind his back, and he was taken to prison. That's where he sat for ten days. His family didn't know where he was, either in Narva or some other place, they weren't given a chance to meet him. On the 11th day, an official came to him and said that he should sign a statement stating that he would give up to be a deputy mayor of Narva and that he would be free on the same day if he did not sign, then he would sit for six months. It was a difficult choice, I must admit, very difficult. Another man I can't tell you about today made the choice that he wouldn't sign, and sat for exactly six months, and the guilt was more or less the same as the man I'm telling you about. He signed it. When he was arrested, all the papers wrote about him like a criminal. When he gave up the deputy mayor's seat, he was rewritten as a criminal who confessed to his guilt. Then, when the prosecutor's office handed it over to the court (it happened a while ago), he was rewritten as a genuine criminal. Actually, he's being accused of the next thing. I hope you don't laugh when you hear it. The company that did the repairs bought the building materials. The company did this officially at a hardware store. Since the company has, obviously, quite large purchases, they also received a discount. In fact, I also have a customer card for this store, which gives me a 12% discount. The company's discount was somehow lower, 9%, and this amount was 459 euros by memory. Right now, this person, the former deputy mayors, is accused of doing something for this company, unconcretely, what it was. This is based on the fact that the construction materials purchased for the repair of his apartment resulted in a discount of EUR 459. He's gonna have a long, stupid trial, he's gonna have a huge expense, and he's gonna be a criminal for life. What does his family mean? How does he feel about his son and wife? This is all happening in the rule of law, the name of which is Estonia. It was said here today that it is not politics. It is, it is. Unfortunately, I could tell you about the cases that have been discovered by the National Audit Office and where there is a crime, not only is there suspicion, but this crime is visible. But in these troubled places, no one wants to do anything. But if there is a need to change those in power in one city, the police and the prosecutor's office will be used. I don't want to say anything about the court right now, but these two will definitely be used. Such a story could happen to anyone in this hall. For example, with me, because in my time I helped solve problems when Narva had long years of investment and had many problems that needed to be dealt with. I've taken part in this project that we had a Rimi trading chain as a developer. I have a client card for this trading chain. Now I'm asking myself what's gonna happen to it. It says there's some kind of discount on it. Maybe somebody's making something up again because life's gotten too boring. Maybe on the basis of getting some bonus points, there's some kind of criminal case against me. We live in a very strange time! If we see something terrible going on, we can hear it again, that it is the Soviet system that is responsible for everything. Darlings, we have lived in independent Estonia for over 20 years. Stop it! If in 20 years it is not possible to abandon the former system and build up what is right for us, where do we fit? When a colleague talks about this remoteness that the people of Estonia must ask not to demand but to ask their country back to themselves, is it not ridiculous if it sounds from the mouth of a member of the coalition of the Riigikogu? I would like to personally thank everyone who performed here today! I didn't think it was an empty bang. This debate will be remembered and will give us the opportunity to think further. It is clear that we must all work on improving the system. I hope that this will be clear to the Reform Party and the IRL, otherwise you and all of us will have the same story that I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U139	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U140	Good manager! Good waitress! I would not have come to the remote today if I had not been emotional because of the group's speeches. Speaking of the Centre Party, I think I, too, have dared to say something from time to time and not always have I agreed with my partymates. I think it is perfectly normal that there are differences of opinion in such a large party. However, I think that today's theme setting has been extremely necessary. There are undoubtedly many emotions here. If we put 500 euros in weight on one of the alleged donations and the ensuing repressions against individuals and on the other, the residence permits on the basis of which people were imported into Estonia, whose background was, to put it mildly, completely intolerable, I have a clear message to the IRL and, above all, to Mr Pomerants: the disappearance of the IRL will not make the countryside disappear. The disappearance of the IRL is already clearly programmed into the Estonian political landscape, as shown by ratings. Sad. Because it will give the Reform Party the opportunity to rule the country alone soon. And the Reform Party will rule alone because the Centre Party cannot participate in government because we have Priit Toobal, who, think with your head, probably didn't take 500 euros, but Aunt Maali knows that she still got the money, but maybe she didn't, but it doesn't matter anymore. In fact, Estonia's political landscape is affected by such processes. It is not only about the Centre Party, it is also about the IRL and it is undoubtedly about the People's Union. Bastards, you're next, after the IRL's gone. Don't think you're doing better, because you don't always think the way an Estonian country thinks. Of course, we do not have the right to judge the judicial system. That makes perfect sense. Of course, Igor Gräzin and Igor Gräzin take quite a risk every Sunday, because we have to be critical of the prosecutor's office at least every other time. I keep asking myself when they're coming to pick me up. Once, I went to the defense police myself to ask what was going on. It was during this 500 euro story. I had been in contact with this person almost all summer, doing different things to him. I asked why they wouldn't arrest me. I didn't get an answer, but I'm afraid so. Every day I put a bag of clean laundry in the car, because I don't forget one day in October 2000, when four men walked through the door, took me home where the search took place, and counted my bullets in the big room. You said, "You didn't have to throw it yourself, you already have more. 'All of this ended with nothing, but a hole in the soul remained for life. So when I left the Central Criminal Police at 9:30 p.m., I asked if they were gonna take me home because my cell phone was broken, they said, "Get the fuck out, or you're gonna be here for 48 hours. ' Then I walked to the Baltic station, two machine guns around my neck and two rifles on my shoulder. They were legitimate weapons. Guess how many cabs wanted to take me home? But it's happened, and there's a hole in my soul. If I listen to all of this here today, whoever is talking here or with anyone in Estonia has happened, it has to be said that this is the country we have not wanted. Our grandfathers did not fight for such a country in Sinimäed Hills; our great-grandfathers did not fight for such a country in the War of Independence. Will the time soon come when men, like Sirg, will fall to death from hotel windows? Is this the kind of Estonia we wanted? This is not the Estonia we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U141	Thank you very much. We have a minute and a half before the end of the trial. Can Peter Võsa handle five minutes? Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U142	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, If I was elected to the Riigikogu, I do not know why or on what basis, but on two occasions the gentlemen tried to lure me and manipulate me to spy on you. Exactly, you got it right, they wanted me to turn into a snitch. I have the courage to come here before you and talk about it, because I never did, and I never will. I hope that the people who did this to me have just as much courage to talk about it in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-25_U143	Thank you very much. Today's trial is over. The second item on the agenda, which has not been dealt with, will be moved to the agenda of tomorrow's sitting. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
