ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, regarding possible corruption. Let me briefly tell you what this is about. On 28 June this year, the City Council of Narva decided to change the structure of the Narva authorities as of 2 July, from which the Utilities Department was removed. In anticipation of the changes planned by the City Council, Acting Director of the City Property and Economics Department, Tamara Luigas, released the Acting Head of the current Utilities Department on 25 June, and on 27 June, the day before the meeting of the Council, Mr Riho Sillari, who began working in this office on 2 July, was just drafted by Mr Riho Sillari. That fun cost the city 9500 euros. The Office of the City Administration submitted an application to the Department of Corruption Crimes Office of the Police and Border Guard Board to investigate the act that caused the city EUR 9500 damage and to open the relevant criminal case. The Registry received a negative reply. In this regard, I would like to ask a few questions to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U3	Thank you. Is there any further desire to pass on drafts and enquiries? No, it's not. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now I'm going to the messages. On Wednesday, 19 December, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. Seventy-six people registered to be present, 25 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, the first reading of the bill 338 of the decision of the Estonian Economic Commission to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair, Kaja Kallas, Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 December the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu decided to initiate a draft decision to change the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund in view of the suspension of the mandate of the member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund Urmas Reinsalu Riigikogu and the election of a new member of the Supervisory Board from among the members of the Riigikogu. Two candidates were nominated: Mart Laar and Jüri Ratas, the first with 6 votes in favour and the second with 4 votes in favour. At our meeting on 13 December, we made a series of procedural decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U6	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Any questions for the waitress? Just in case, I would remind you that it is possible to ask the rapporteur an oral question during the debate on such a draft decision. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U7	Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Estonian Development Fund and its council should keep in touch with the Riigikogu. Do you think it would be normal for the Riigikogu that is not part of the government coalition to be represented there too?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U8	The Development Fund is the Riigikogu think tank and I think that there could be representatives of both the opposition and the coalition. We are planning to discuss the law on the Development Fund and why not write down this principle in the law. In any case, it may be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U9	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U10	Good waitress! Who is currently the representative of the opposition in that committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U11	Do you mean the Council? There is currently no representative of the opposition in the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U12	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U13	Good waitress! The Estonian Development Fund once had quite good capital to develop and finance various projects. After the transfer of Telekom, the Estonian Development Fund was essentially deprived of capital. What's the situation now? How much resources can the fund use to contribute to Estonia's development?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U14	That has nothing to do with this draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U15	Thank you very much. Are there any other issues involved? Each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask a question during the discussion on this topic. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kaja Kallas. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Central Party Group of Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U16	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, the response of the rapporteur from the Commission, which has just spoken to me, prompted me to say that the funding was not relevant. It seems that Estonia will soon have nothing to do with this. I'd like to tell you a little bit about the roller coaster today. You see, historically the roller has been predominantly a yellow, well-visible machine that has been used in situations where something needs to be pressed smooth to make it a good move. The roller coaster has one minus: it's awfully difficult to drive up a mountain. But the worst part is when a roller starts rolling down the hill. The thing is, since the speed of the roller is programmed to be relatively slow, it can be adjusted by means of a gearbox and with differentials, this machine has no brakes. I'm telling you that if someone drives a road roll down the hill, a road roller that uses iron rollers mostly will not be able to stop. And that is where we have arrived today that the Estonian Development Fund, as the think tank of the Riigikogu, is actually a joke. The joke is that some time ago the only message to the Riigikogu from a person who was elected to the Board of the Estonian Development Fund was to come and listen to me. He didn't even know we were going to this hall without his invitation from time to time, by the way. And today I am extremely happy to see almost a hundred people here who think they know why they've come here. That is why I am asking: is there absolutely no need for more than half of the opposition representing the opinion of society on the board of this organisation on the basis of current ratings? It would be a real time for us to start thinking about which councils we produce. In my opinion, because of the indecisiveness of the council of several state companies, we have so much to hear lately that our ears are completely locked, start working with earplugs or earplugs. Of course, Mart Laar, who is appointed to the Board of the Estonian Development Fund today, is a very respected person. In my opinion, he is one of the most experienced members of the Riigikogu and a worthy candidate for this position. It's not a question of his identity, it's a matter of principles. Dear coalition! Start to realize that it's not very reasonable to drive down a roller coaster! One day this roller might go into a ditch, and then you'll wonder why it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U17	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to adopt the draft decision as a decision. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, to the final vote, I will put draft 338 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing a member of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund' submitted by the Economic Commission. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 11 against and no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U18	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 293. I would like a presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed draft 293 'Law amending the Law on waste' at its meeting on 10 December. All the members of the Commission and Malle Piirsoo, the Chief Specialist of the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, were present, who explained the amendments that the Ministry of the Environment had made further. This is four amendments, all of which are of a very technical nature. If there is anything to stop, Amendment 3, which is a little more substantive, says that the draft could be supplemented by a new clause concerning § 29 of the Waste Act. Its paragraph 4 is supplemented by point 19. We are talking about adding a 19th point to the list of handling requirements, which is quite long at the moment, as regards waste oils. The Minister for the Environment will also be able to regulate the handling of the latter by means of a regulation. The Commission unanimously supported the amendments tabled. No one opposed any amendments. Consequently, the Commission took its own procedural decisions. We decided, with one vote, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu sitting on Tuesday 18 December, to propose that the plenary assembly stop the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday 20 December. The members of the Commission also agreed with one voice. We also propose that the Riigikogu put the bill to the final vote on this very 20th day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U20	Thank you, dear waitress. There are some questions for you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U21	Dear waitress, In the Commission, you certainly had a broader discussion when you introduced it here today in a brief review. How convenient is the sorting of these hazardous waste for people and do all waste companies in all regions sort out those hazardous waste that reach their normal waste bins? Is it an urban legend that actually all the garbage gets out in one place, or does it have the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U22	In fact, it must be acknowledged that there was no very broad debate on the area of waste management as a whole in the Commission's meeting on this draft law in the Commission. But when it comes to the management of hazardous waste, it has improved year after year. People's awareness has increased and this network, where hazardous waste can be given away, is largely developed in Estonia. People's awareness is a key issue on this issue, and we must work constantly to raise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U23	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U24	Good performer! It says here the obligations of importers of electrical and electronic equipment are a whole series here. Perhaps you will sum up briefly in human language, first, second, third, what are these obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U25	As regards certain inconveniences for importers of electrical and electronic equipment, as we can read from the very beginning of the explanatory memorandum, there are certain additional obligations for importers of electronic and electrical equipment in the medical sector in particular. After all, many of the obligations and regulations resulting from this law have been in force in the past. The new obligations are in fact one-off and concern the activities necessary for the start of the implementation of this law. There is nothing very new about the legislative changes in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U26	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U27	The latest details can certainly be obtained from the Ministry. I say so much that this figure has improved year after year. As for the handing over of ordinary old batteries, it has been made very simple. As the law requires, in all places where new batteries are sold, old ones must also be accepted. So if you're going to the store to buy a new one, you can give up the old one in the same place. Actually, there's no problem. Battery batteries shall be moved to a hazardous waste collection point. These points are also available in every municipality and it is very nice for municipalities to carry out information campaigns where and under what conditions hazardous waste can be disposed of. Once again, it is actually a question of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U28	Good waitress! People often do not know where to give away old batteries and batteries. Tallinn district organises major remedial campaigns every spring. I've seen in Haaberst myself how the bushes are full of all kinds of debris, including plenty of car batteries. As far as I know, the European Union has set itself the goal of reaching 45% of old batteries and accumulators by 2016. Is it known what this percentage could be in Estonia now? How much of the old batteries and batteries are collected?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U29	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U30	Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal refers to the provision of information to users of problem products on the possibilities for the collection and treatment of waste resulting from the use of these products. This obligation is imposed on producers and producer associations. Does this draft impose additional obligations on them on the organisation of information campaigns and has an analysis been carried out of how much it costs them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U31	As regards the organisation of campaigns, this obligation is indeed imposed on importers. Of course, this will also entail some costs. The amount of these costs depends on the form in which the campaigns are to be carried out. I do not have any specific figures to tell you, but it is true that the management of hazardous waste is the case that companies that operate in this area must take this responsibility into account. They know that this requires informing the population, and these costs should be included in their business plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U32	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 1 (8) of the draft law repeals the paragraph which provides that where a distributor sells products placed on the market by a producer not registered in a register of problematic products, it is to be subject to producer obligations. The provision is repealed because the European Commission considers that Estonia is thus restricting the functioning of the European internal market, because it has imposed stricter requirements than those in other Member States. Is this not again an example of the fact that Estonian officials are working hard to transpose European Union directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U33	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U34	Yes, there is such an example. But let us say, however, that they have not done so for any bad or criminal purpose, the aim has been to keep our environment clean. The goal has been noble. If you're getting a little carried away by turning this thing, now you're going to have to turn that screw back a little bit. But who knows when it'll get tightened again? We'll probably see about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U35	Good waitress! I'm asking about Section 25 of the Waste Act. This is supplemented by a new paragraph 31, which specifies the sentence "needs electrical current or electromagnetic field to operate'. It can be read from the explanatory memorandum that, for example, battery-operated teddy bears go down there, which is therefore a problem product under this law. I believe that many parents are interested in how it would be appropriate to handle a broken bear in the future in accordance with the Waste Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U36	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U37	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U38	There's nothing more complicated about it than all these other devices. They must be taken to where they are intended when their period of use is over, when children have grown up, when the teddy bear is no longer needed and does not want to be kept at home. Then he must be taken to where he was meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U39	Good waitress! I have a question about § 2611 of the Act, entitled 'Limited representative'. It reads: 'The authorised representative within the meaning of this section and of subsection 2614 of this Act is the person who has received a written mandate from the manufacturer to act on behalf of the manufacturer for specified tasks. ' Are these specified tasks set by each manufacturer himself, or are there general rules for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U40	Unfortunately, I am not currently the chairman of the committee, but I am a member of the Committee on the Environment. As far as savings bulbs are concerned, this is a very fast-growing area and the technical level achieved so far will certainly be exceeded soon. Prices are also likely to fall quite quickly, given that the production of light bulbs is becoming very massive. I believe that in a few years' time, we will no longer be talking about light bulbs that contain mercury and are dangerous to nature. New, more environmentally friendly technologies and much better saving bulbs will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U41	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U42	Dear waitress, According to the draft, the Consumer Protection Board will be granted the rights of an out-of-court reviewer to verify the provision of information and the organisation of information campaigns. How does this affect the workload of the Consumer Protection Board and how much additional money is needed to pay for these additional functions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U43	As far as I know, of course, the authorised representatives are acting on a legislative basis and mostly on the basis of the general rules for conferring powers on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U44	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U45	At the end of the explanatory memorandum, which talks about the effects of the law, it has been said that the amendments to the Waste Act do not entail additional costs for the state budget, but do lead to an increase in the burden on the inspectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U46	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U47	Dear waitress, You will certainly forgive those who are not members of your committee when they ask a little more questions. You have been in the municipality for a long time and have been in touch with people on the ground, so you are certainly aware that saving bulbs have caused quite a bit of resentment in general. These are hazardous waste because they contain gas, which is dangerous to nature in normal handling. As chairman of the committee, how do you predict what their future is? It is hazardous waste, but at the same time there is a requirement that only saving lamps are sold instead of ordinary filament lamps?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U48	Just a clarification on the question of a good colleague, Mailis Reps: are there really no other savings lamps? As far as I know, there are LED lamps that don't contain mercury and other technologies yet. Do we really only have one option for saving lamps?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U49	As I said, this area is developing very quickly. It is precisely the development of LED lamps that gives us the hope that we will soon be rid of the current environmentally dangerous saving bulbs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-18_U50	No further questions. Thank you very much, Jaanus Tamkivi. Let's go to the negotiations. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. Let us now examine the amendments, five of which have been tabled. Amendment 1 from the Committee on the Environment, lead committee, to take full account of amendment 2, amendments 3, 4 and 5. We have examined all the amendments; the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading of bill 293 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a busy day. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 10.28 a.m.
