ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U2	Good morning, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 11 members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. This concerns the increase in domestic costs. Yesterday, we learned statistics that house expenses have increased by over 11% over the year. A 60% increase in the consumer price index represents an increase in domestic expenditure. The Minister for Economic Affairs has been in office for a little over five years now, and he has been very passionate about keeping home expenses under control. That is why we are asking him why words and actions do not come together at all and what plans the government has in order to manage home expenses and to mitigate the impact of price increases on consumers. Among other things, we ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications for the opinion of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications on the behaviour of Eesti Energia Eesti Energia will also charge huge interest on outstanding accounts, more than 20%. So let's ask what the Minister for Economic Affairs thinks of all this and what he proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U3	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of questioning Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on behalf of the 12 members of the Central Party Group. This concerns the proposals made by the General Assembly of local governments. For many years, it has been said that Estonia's socio-economic development is unbalanced and that it deepens regional inequality. On 31 March, a general assembly of Estonian municipalities and cities took place, where concrete proposals were made to improve relations between local governments and central government. As a result, we have three questions to address to the Prime Minister, to which we are awaiting his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 11 April, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now doing a presence check. There are 82 members of the public who have been registered, 19 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft Act 194 on the ratification of the Agreement on Privileges and Integrity between the Republic of Estonia and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. Urmas Paeti, Foreign Minister of the Speaker's Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U7	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. You have before you a draft law ratifying the agreement on privileges and immunity between the Republic of Estonia and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Such agreements have been concluded by Estonia with five international organisations in the past. The essence of the matter is that if this particular organisation opens a representation in Estonia, its employees will enjoy the same rights as diplomats. However, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is unlikely to open its representation in Estonia. So this is a relatively theoretical opportunity and a bill. However, as in the practice of many other international organisations, it is common practice to enter into such agreements with their Member States to ensure that the organisation operates independently in specific countries. In addition, the ratification of this draft will be accompanied by an amendment to the Defence Forces Service Act concerning the release from the Defence Forces of those persons who, as a result of their official duties, are included in the list drawn up by the Director-General of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, approved by the State Party. So theoretically, if one of the members of the Defence Forces is in the service of this organization, it might apply to him. But once again, this is quite a theoretical possibility. I think that's all for the introduction. If you have any questions, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U8	Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur, it's clear. I would like to ask Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Committee, to co-rapporteur the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U9	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft law before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 2 April, in which the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet participated as representatives of the initiator, Priit Kallakas, adviser to the Minister, and Annely Kolk, director of the 2nd Bureau of the Legal Department of the Ministry. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned, the aim of the draft is to guarantee the privileges and immunity of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, in accordance with its objective. I must note that this draft relates to the draft law 172 of the Defence Forces Service Act pending before the Riigikogu, in particular § 38 (1) (3) and § 77 (1) (3) of the draft, which provide for non-invitation to military service or exemption of a person in the reserve on the basis of an external contract. This is necessary in case an Estonian defence forceman enters the service as a representative of a State Party of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons or as an official appointed by the Agreement. Non-invitation does not automatically mean exemption from the obligation of the Defence Forces; immunity applies only as a representative of a State Party of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons or as an official. The current Defence Forces Service Act does not allow such a distinction, but in the event of a conflict, the foreign contract ratified by the Riigikogu takes precedence over national law. The implementation of this agreement does not entail any direct additional costs for Estonia. At its meeting on 2 April, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law be included for the first reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu; the rapporteur was appointed on behalf of the National Defence Committee. The committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion. The deadline for submitting amendments could be ten working days, i.e. ten working days, in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. 24 April 2010 at 6 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U10	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! It does not appear from the draft law that this law could have a significant impact in Estonia, and the Estonian citizen will probably not be represented by this organisation. In this case, is there any reason to believe that the people at headquarters are going to come here looking for chemical weapons?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U12	Thank you for your question. In the Committee on National Defence, the same question was raised, and we agreed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said that there was no real practical need, and apparently there is no such practical need. But, as has been said, we already have the practical experience of ratifying such a bill, and that is why we are doing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U13	Any more questions? No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Ülo Tulik! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 194. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. 24 April 2010 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U14	We will come to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Borodichi, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U15	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The content of this draft decision of the Riigikogu is the exchange of members of the special committee following the end of the term of office of one of the members of the Riigikogu. The content of this draft decision is to appoint Mr Andres Herkel as a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities and Mr Ülo Tulik as an alternate member in place of Mr Andres Herkel. The Constitutional Committee, having discussed the draft decision, proposed to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 10 April, today, to appoint Deniss Borodich, vice-president of the committee as rapporteur, to conclude the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 April at 18. Should the first reading of the draft be completed, the second reading of the draft and the final vote could be held on 19 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U16	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 199. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft 199. a on April 12, at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U17	Our third item today is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U18	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start by bringing some figures and other facts. One in five children in Estonia lives in relative poverty, and this figure has not changed much in the last seven years. While this figure was 20.1% in 2005, it was 19.5% in 2010. We all know very well what relative poverty is, but just in case: it is determined on the basis of the ratio between a person's income and the average income of the population. The relative poverty rate in Estonia shows how many people earn less than 60% of their median income. In addition to relative poverty, statistics also use the concept of absolute poverty. It coincides with the minimum subsistence rate and currently amounts to EUR 174.82 per month per person. Children living in absolute poverty are 18.6% in Estonia. By comparison, there were 9,4% of them in a good year 2007. The following term is the limit of living, which is EUR 76.7 per first family member this year and EUR 66.63 per next family member. According to Estonian law, the children, as we understand it, are precisely the following. If, after payment of utility bills, the family retains a lower amount than the subsistence limit, the state will pay just enough to obtain the income limit. Families with children who lived below the poverty line and were forced to ask for income support were nearly 7,000 in Estonia during the nine months of last year. And they were only families with children! In this respect, child poverty is almost twice the average level of poverty. In a rapidly ageing Estonian society, families with children are at risk and the more children, the greater the risk. In short, the situation is frightening. It is difficult to argue against something here, and the purpose of this draft is to improve the livelihood of Estonian families. To this end, we will make two main proposals. The first is not to count child benefit as an income when determining income support. It also provides an opportunity to receive income support for families with children who currently have one benefit to eat another. By adding child benefit incomes in 2005, the government deprived hundreds of beneficiaries of child benefit of the possibility of applying for income support. The only remaining benefit is that the beneficiary of income support, whose subsequent family members are all minors, is entitled to 15 euros per quarter. The second proposal is to raise the level of subsistence. It is incomprehensible how last year one child's subsistence limit could be lower than the official cost of a food basket, which was 66 euros in July last year and 63 euros in December. By the way, as regards this second point, which we would also like to increase the subsistence limit for other family members to 100%, i.e. EUR 76, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who spoke in the Committee on Social Affairs, felt that this could not be considered reasonable, because if people live together, their costs would be lower. There's a refrigerator for everyone, a ceiling lamp is one, and you can cook more sparingly. So if someone had to ask themselves why the family head gets 15 euros more than the other family members, now you know it's money for the refrigerator. It has become common practice to accuse the opposition in Parliament of populism. It's easy! Every time a social-oriented bill is discussed in the Riigikogu, you simply have to ask what sources of cover are and how you intend to finance it. And, unfortunately, it often happens that the debate will be torpedoed and there will be no substantive debate. I hope this time we avoid this practice. To be honest, the situation of our children is depressing, and I think that with this draft we can improve it, and in the near future. The plan is that this law should enter into force on 1 January 2013. Already preventing the issue of sources of revenue, I would say to the honourable coalition ambassadors that it would make every sense to see these costs immediately in the planning of the next budget. These costs are not actually as high, especially in view of their objective. If child benefit were excluded from income when determining income, the Ministry of Social Affairs estimates that it would cost 2.3 million euros, raising the subsistence limit to 100% for all family members would require 3.3 million euros. I would ask you, honourable MPs, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U19	Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Mr Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group on Tuesday, 3 April. As representative of the political group, i.e. the initiator, Yana Toom presented this draft to us. The Social Affairs Committee also received the position of the Government of the Republic, which was not supportive of this draft. The draft was discussed in the committee, and since part of it is identical to the draft, which the Social Democratic Party has already submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings several times through the Social Committee, this part relates to the exclusion of child support from the calculation of income support, and this draft has passed first reading in this Chamber and is in the proceedings of the Social Affairs Committee, there was no very long debate on this issue. These discussions have taken place in the Commission. The second proposal concerns the law on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and is then that the income limit is 100% for all household members. It is currently 100% for a person living alone and the first household member, and 80% for other members. The Commission was also concerned about the cost of this draft. The draft is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year, so it concerns, as the previous speaker said, the budget for next year. The cost of the draft in terms of raising the level of subsistence is EUR 3.3 million over a year. If child benefit were excluded from the calculation of income support, it would cost EUR 2.3 million. In total, the indicative cost of this draft, as confirmed by the government, would be EUR 5.6 million from the next year's state budget. The Commission decided as follows: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 10 April 2012; it was a unanimous decision; to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped by 3; no one opposed; to appoint Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur; and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments on 23 April. a. So much for the Committee on Social Affairs on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U21	Thank you. For a moment, let me be clear: April 23rd or April 24th?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U22	Thank you, President-in-Office. This is also the date difference in the protocol. We decided ten days, as stated in the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, here the 24th date is set for the deadline for the amendments, I think it is set for the Bureau. So, April 24th.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U23	Thank you. You've been asked a few questions. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In the debate on both the Social Democrats' draft and the Centre Party's draft, the government justified the unnecessary addition of this EUR 19 to child support by the fact that, if taken into account, people do not want to work. Like they're all unemployed who get that money! At the same time yesterday, the minister spoke to us here before the Riigikogu about statistics and said: 'If I look at income statistics, the analysis of income support, the vast majority of income support applicants receive it one to four times a year. ' That's why I'm asking you this. On Monday, you did not agree that the draft Social Democrats could be processed further. Is this the plan to put this bill back under?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U25	Good questioner! At the moment, I do not understand which draft is being discussed, either the draft increase in child benefit or the same draft, which partly coincides with the draft initiated by the Centre Party? When it comes to this draft, which partly coincides with the Centre Party draft, I will answer the following. At the meeting of the Commission on 3 April, I asked the representative of the Social Democrats whether they would theoretically agree to merge the procedures for these two drafts, because they are completely identical in this respect. I think that if today the Riigikogu Hall decides to complete the first reading of this draft, the Social Affairs Committee and the entire Riigikogu can proceed with these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U26	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U27	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Why does the government count child benefit as income and count this family's incomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U28	Good questioner! This change was made years ago, and you have certainly read the government's position on at least three drafts that have concerned taking account of child benefits or family benefits when granting income support. Various reasons are given. Indeed, before this change entered into force, child benefits were not taken into account when determining income support. So actually, both options are possible. The government's opinion is quite long, and I am not going to read it here; the government has drawn it up for the Social Affairs Committee. The Riigikogu has the full freedom to process these laws at our discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U29	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission discuss how much time it would take to deal with this draft? It also sets a deadline of 1 January 2013. How do you think we'll end up with this law by the summer, or will it be transferred to the other half of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U31	Good questioner, the Commission did not dwell on this issue. Our aim was to send the draft to the first reading and, as you can see, the committee decided, for its part, to propose to the Chamber of the Riigikogu to finish the first reading. As I mentioned, this bill will involve a total of EUR 5.6 million in public budget expenditure, and since the law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2013, it will certainly have to be seen in the context of the next budget planning. I can't tell you the dates and the timetable at all, how we're going to move on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U32	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U33	Thank you. That is why we have put it in the draft so that it will come into force next year, because it will lead to financial obligations. But this current denial gives the impression that the coalition does not recognise that we have a great deal of poverty. Recently, these figures were again published. Can you tell by heart how much poverty we have according to the purchasing power standard and how much income support has increased in recent years and what are the limits of child poverty, including deep poverty below the absolute poverty line?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U34	Good questioner! We raised the income support limit from 1 January 2011. This is a clear sign that the government coalition is very serious about those people who need the help of the state to cope with their lives. Raising the income support limit is, overall, a pretty large activity. So there is a complete understanding of the seriousness of the situation in the government coalition. I also recall that the Social Affairs Committee has discussed the issue of child poverty repeatedly and seriously, which I believe is one of the most serious issues in Estonian society. This needs to be addressed and the government coalition already has the agenda set out in the coalition agreement in 2011 in order to address this issue in depth. The Social Affairs Committee also met with the Chancellor of Justice to discuss this concerns together at the round table. In my opinion, there is a mutual understanding of the seriousness of the issue of poverty. It is a question of what specific policy we are implementing, whether these are individual policies or whether they have been discussed more widely. The government plans to develop a Green Paper for next year, which should include the introduction of a targeted family and child benefit system alongside universal benefits. Last year, the government prepared the National Development Plan for Children and Families 2012 I think that the vision of how to deal with this very serious issue has a coalition, and I very much hope that the opposition and coalition of the Riigikogu will work together to achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U35	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! My first question was also linked to the drawing up of the budget, because I think it is better to foresee, in the drafting of the draft budget, the financial allocations that we have tabled. In the autumn, when the budget is drawn up and in the process, it will be much harder to find this amount. How do you personally think about whether it would be better to adopt this draft at the time of drawing up the state budget and to see this money in the draft budget or not until the autumn to start redeploying the funds and then working harder? How do you think in person?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U37	Good questioner! I am here as chairman of the committee and, above all, my task is to show you what kind of debate is taking place in the Committee on Social Affairs. Believe me, we have very many very good drafts, the cost of which is also very high. It is up to all of us here to act as a statesman and think how we can sustainably implement these good and certainly very well-intentioned proposals. To bring it to life in such a way that it is affordable for the state and that people can get as much help as possible from it. The Committee on Social Affairs is an interesting committee in this sense that our heart certainly wants to provide much more help than the country actually has. But I believe that when the government prepares the state budget for next year, it will certainly take into account these proposals and the draft laws that are in the process. At some point, this budget will reach this hall and we can decide what it will look like once and for all. I would like to congratulate the initiators that they have not put this draft as a law by the date of entry into force of the date that will be six months, but that it will be 1 January 2013, which will really allow the budget makers to take this draft into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-10_U38	Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! No further questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to close the first reading of the draft 178. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 24 April this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 10.35 a.m.
