ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues, good morning! We will begin the second Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 70 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U2	Let us begin today's item on the agenda. The discussion on the implementation of the development concept of Estonian civil society and on participatory democracy is essential as a national issue. Dear colleagues, before we go to the debate, let me also briefly introduce this discussion procedure, which comes from § 153 of our beloved Home and Working Procedures Act. First, Tarmo Jüristo, representative of the NGO association, will be present for up to 20 minutes, then questions and answers. After that, the regional minister Siim-Valmar Kiisler will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and then questions and answers. Thirdly, Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be presenting questions and answers again for up to 20 minutes and after that. Let it be said here that all rounds of questions and answers are also limited to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs on this item. After that there will be a round of negotiations, members of the Riigikogu, members of committees and political groups may take the floor. I have a huge request that the representatives of the political groups first appear. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I ask Tarmo Jüristo, representative of the NGO Association, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! Less than two weeks ago, President Ilves gave the opening speech of the new session of the Riigikogu in this very room, the central axis of which was an age-old and topical topic in Estonian politics, namely trust. Although it may be difficult to believe when monitoring the Estonian media, the confidence indicators of our institutional policy have been remarkably high up to the most recent time compared to the European average. Now there's a change. More important than any precise statistical confidence rates, there is a shift in the public debate, which no longer discusses the competence and popularity of individual persons or parties, but raises questions about the legitimacy and prospects of our political order at all. In recent months, a number of people - politicians, academics and journalists - have drawn attention to the dangerous tendency of a loss of trust in political parties and public authorities - to the fact that this is not just an inconvenience to current power parties but may be a threat to something much wider. I, too, feel that this is a serious problem and that it needs to be dealt with. At the same time, I am not convinced that our aim should be merely to restore confidence and return to a happy past, where citizens trusted the government and parties where they were willing to trust political politicians. It seems to me that our current situation is not only a problem but also an opportunity. A chance not to go back to where we've been, but to where we'd like to go. The research and development centre of civil society at Tallinn University recently carried out a wide-ranging study of the values and behavioural patterns of civil society among Estonian residents. An interesting picture emerges from it. The values of Estonian society in 2012 are clearly oriented towards an inclusive and participatory society and politics. According to the survey, almost 2/3 of respondents tended to favour participatory democratic attitudes, and about a quarter of the Estonian population do so consistently, which already allows to talk about participatory democratic orientation. The total number of respondents to the various representative democratic attitudes was only 3%. On the side of behavioural patterns, the picture is much more modest in this respect, and it raises the question of what is the result of the scissors between human values and expectations and real behaviour. Despite the fact that our statehood was based both at the beginning of the last century and 20 years ago, in the 1990s, the broad-based civil movement, today Estonia has a very deeply rooted, regrettably narrow understanding of politics. This concept sees politics as a vertical or pyramid of power, with the citizenry at the bottom and the Prime Minister and President at the top. As seen in this way, the NGO is a kindergarten of politics, which, in the best case, is an input to real politics, which, however, cannot and cannot make decisions concerning the whole of society. It seems to me that this vision not only impoverishs the concept of society, but also undermines politics as a whole. If parliamentary and party politics are a matter of the vertical, then the civil society is the horizontal dimension of the policy, the one that gives it space, coherence and inclusiveness. One problem related to vertical vision is that relations between civil society and public authorities are largely framed in terms of public authority. This description language often does not correspond to the way active people in the society see what they are doing. It is often not only that people with different perspectives understand the same terms in different ways (which they will undoubtedly do), but that these different policy areas may have radically different content. One excellent example here is an important word such as 'voice', which has two interrelated meanings in Estonian, but still has different meanings. As a citizen, we have two different voices. One that we give up in the elections for someone else's benefit and which, for example, in English, is marked by the word vote; the other, which allows us to be heard by others, in English, is the language of the vote. If, in the case of vertical politics, the currency is a voice that can be put in the ballot box, then the society is based on a large number of citizens' votes, voices that cannot be counted together or reduced to each other. Here, too, one of the tensions of these two political dimensions becomes evident. The policies seen vertically are shrinking upwards. The higher you move there, the less different opinions and views it allows, the less room for a horizontal dimension. But democracy is not a government of knowledge; it is a government of opinion. In Estonia, many things are quite well in relations between civil society and public authorities, not only in international comparison, where we often get praise in this respect. One of its testimony is, among other things, the fact that I am standing here today and speaking. I am not representing Estonian civil society here, but I am simply one of the many voices that are addressing you today, and this is a promising start. Here I would like to come back to these scissors in the values and behavioural patterns of the Estonian people, which I mentioned earlier. When we talk about active citizenship in today's Estonia, it is obviously not about people not wanting to be involved or involved in social affairs. It's certainly not that they don't care, but it looks like the problem is the possibilities. I am not talking here about whether everyone has the opportunity to have a say in any way, but about how many different ways we, as citizens, can have a say and participate. The question of whether politics should be merely a party's playground, whether inclusion is something that can only be done with the state's civil society. Or maybe it's the other way around, can the civil society involve the state? Can cooperation between public authorities and civil society be seen only through involvement in the sense that we listen and, as far as possible, take account, or can decision-making be opened step by step and more widely, so that the voice of the civil society can be heard throughout the political process, from setting targets and delineating problems to choosing solutions and implementing them? This would undoubtedly mean radical expansion of the political field in today's sense, and I understand that this prospect may seem frightening. On the other hand, it seems to me that the trust I mentioned at the beginning of my speech is a bilateral matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U4	Thank you very much, good waitress. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Please don't leave, because you have quite a few questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm following your alliance and your company quite constantly. From today's presentation, as well as from your earlier statements, I have the impression that you are somehow confronting civil society, civil society and political parties. I believe that the party is part of civil society and is part of NGOs. For what reason do you think that political parties are not part of civil society and NGOs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U6	Thank you for your question. I certainly do not believe that political parties are not part of the society or civil society. I even tried to stress in my speech that these are not things that should be on the same scale and opposite. I tried to stress that parliamentary politics and civil society are different dimensions of the political field. They don't rule each other out, they complement each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U7	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U8	Dear Mr. George! Do you personally or the Association of Estonian NGOs, whom you represent, have any vision or vision of how the Estonian electoral laws could or should be amended, both the Riigikogu and the Law on the Election of Local Government, so that the voice of the civil society becomes more important?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U9	Apparently, different people here may have a whole bunch of different opinions. Personally, I have to say that I cannot imagine, not even seeing this possibility that the electoral law should be the tool that would change the role or participation of the civil society in today's Estonian politics. It seems to me that the electoral law is precisely more connected to this vertical one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U10	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! The presentation was short and relatively succinct, but also raised questions. As a member of three non-profit organisations, one of which is, of course, a party, one is a sports club and one is a Rotary club, I have often wondered about the large distribution within the society, the number of non-governmental people who, organized in one way or another, want to form a policy, and how many people who do not want to do anything against their part for society, for example, through the Rotary Club to help the weaker. Is there such an idea as to what this percentage distribution could be broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U12	The percentage distribution I certainly don't have to take, but for me, the question is a little bit problematic when you put it in such a way that when people do things without wanting anything in return, couldn't it be part of politics? I would rather argue for a slightly broader or broader political vision. The Rotary Club is, by that definition, a part of politics as well. Whether sports clubs are part of politics, I don't know, they also have a role to play in the political field.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U13	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U14	Thank you for your good and rash presentation. But you mentioned that extending the political spectrum, in your wording, could be frightening for someone. Who did you mean? Who exactly would it scare? And here, on the other hand, as a satellite issue: how many NGOs, non-profit organisations or foundations are there now, in your opinion, on a slightly different platform, who are involved in the development and dissemination of worldview, so-called worldview foundations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U15	Thank you. When I used the word 'frightening' in the first part, I certainly did not mean fear of society or civil society in the sense that it was somehow a threatening force for someone else. Who did I mean? I certainly meant the part of the policy that has institutionalised rather, and I turned to all of you in this regard. What did I mean by fear? The question is rather whether it will be entrusted if we also open up political decision-making to civil society as to whether it actually works. Is it possible to do so, can we solve any problems in this way, or can we create more problems for ourselves? That was more of what I meant by fear. And I don't want to write it down as some kind of phobia or say it's an inappropriate fear, but it's something I can look at and deal with. Can I remind you what the other part of the question was? With regard to the world view, I do not know how to respond now, it would like a more thorough approach. There are no doubt a number of NGOs in Estonia who are dealing with issues that are at least partially world-view. If we reduce this issue to the foundations of the worldview, then such organisations, I do not know, maybe not among Estonian NGOs. But I do not think that this should be a matter of society; NGOs do not need to be functional, but they also face this issue in different fields in their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U16	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U17	Thanks for the presentation. Each coin has two sides and rights must be accompanied by obligations, especially when we talk about credibility and a long-term relationship of trust. Your proposal, of course, that the role of the NGOs in decision-making should be greater in politics sounds very logical. But what should the other side of this coin look like, the responsibility for these decisions and the responsibility for the greater rights involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U18	I do not know how the Rules of Procedure provide, I would like to ask you a question in return and ask you what kind of responsibility you have in mind. What should be the responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U19	This opportunity to start asking the members of the Riigikogu in a speech chair, unfortunately you do not. Would you like to continue to answer, or should we go to the next question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U20	I think we'll go to the next question. In this form, I cannot answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U21	Dear colleagues, it is my great honor to now give the floor to our birthday child today. Congratulations, Remo Holsmer! Please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U22	Thank you, Mr President. The last question goes on. In a democratic society, people have the opportunity to give votes, as you said in your presentation, and they will give votes to parties who will decide for them. Returning to the responsibility that my penguin asked about earlier, I think he meant this responsibility that, if there is a vote, there are also parties responsible for it. Perhaps you will describe these proposals how civil society can play a greater role in the decision-making process, how you will see it. I hope the question was understandable now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U23	Thank you. A number of examples could be given. Even in preparation for this same presentation, I wondered if I would bring them in, and I decided not to. However, if you answer the question specifically, one such well-established and concrete example, which has been much discussed in recent weeks and where there is clearly a connection between the civil society, is the financing of political parties and the question of whether it needs to be restructured. Just recently, the deadline for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to make proposals on this issue was re-established by several representatives and organisations of the civil society. Just as an example or as speculation, I am suggesting here such an idea that perhaps it would be possible to do this in such a way that the civil society would deal with this issue and involve it in the country. Would it be possible to think of a situation where civil society would be in possession of the issue of finding these solutions? I think it would at least be an interesting idea, an interesting idea of how to move. This could be an example of how the decision-making process could expand. If you answer briefly, let's take the same question of NASA and the NSAs that came up earlier. If you look at this process in a retrospect, in fact, the society had a clear involvement in this process through a veto. Since there were a number of critical voices, the process was shut down. My idea or question is whether this kind of cooperation could also be formalised, continued and deepened, made more versatile, not just by giving input and then making a loud voice when something doesn't fit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U24	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U25	Mr President, Mr Jyristo, I would like to thank you very much. You made very modest use of your opportunity to present the NGO alliance and perhaps a little bit of praise for yourself. But now I ask you what achievement you are happiest or happiest as a representative of the NGO association. What have you done with your organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U26	There must have been a little misunderstanding. First of all, I don't know that. I am certainly not involved in the NGO association, I am not a representative or a manager of the NGO association. I don't know what it says. As I said in my speech, I don't represent the civil society here, I'm just talking about its voices as one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U27	Let's keep going. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U28	Thank you, good waitress. Your previous answer was, in itself, very clear, so I would like to ask you for your personal position on one of the issues that is now current. Today, the round of coordination ends in the discussion of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. One of the topics that Riigikogu members need to consider is the involvement of the local community and interested parties in decision-making in kindergartens and schools. The current law provides that the local community and local interest groups, i.e. parents and representatives of older pupils, are also represented in kindergartens and schools. At the same time, there are voices against some people who say that they are stupid, that they are hindering the administration of the institution and that people should not be allowed to make decisions in this way. What's your position? How should members of the Riigikogu behave? What should they consider and consider? Please explain whether or not to allow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U29	I am afraid that, in essence, by answering this question, I would clearly go beyond the limits of my competence. My personal position or personal sympathy should probably not be surprising in the light of the presentation; this is, of course, rather pro-inclusion. Undoubtedly, such a thing raises a variety of concerns and concerns. This is exactly the same question of fear that I tried to open up in the context of my answer. Any opening of the decision-making process, the debate process, will at least potentially lead to the problem of dealing with different positions that we may not all agree with. Some people may be ignorant, some may be spiteful. But I'm afraid how to say that this is one of the essential aspects of democracy at all. If we were to pursue the most effective, most carefree and simple method of deciding what to do, then we wouldn't need this hall filled with people here either. Monarchy is a more effective, faster and easier method of making decisions than democracy and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U30	A procedural question, Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U31	Thank you. We have clearly stated on the agenda that the first report will be made by a representative of the NGO association. The waitress in the remote has stated on several occasions that she does not represent non-governmental organisations. Apparently, he is also having difficulty answering certain questions. Perhaps you could explain, as chairman, whether there has been a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U32	Thank you, good co-worker. I would say that this question is like being put at the head of a nail. I've been thinking about that too for the last three or four minutes. I know who is here in the Riigikogu Chair, but I admit that I do not know exactly who he represents, and I have asked for this to be made clear. As you know, a good fellow official, Tõnis Kõiv, is being prepared by the committees for discussions on key national issues. That's one way. And it is true that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has prepared today's debate, has presented us with such a letter. Dear Tarmo Jyristo, I now appeal to you: do I understand correctly that there should be a'representative of the NGOs' before your name, without this union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U33	That's really a question for the nail. It seems to me that this is going back to one of the central issues of my previous presentation, which is exactly the tension between the civil society and representative politics or parliamentary politics. I understand, of course, that simply because of the fact that I'm standing here in this place talking in this room, no matter how hard I try to stay away from it or get away from it, into the frame of representation or discourse. That is precisely what I wanted to refer to earlier and say how, in the case of civil society, the concern often arises that, when we describe things in terms of public authority, we are talking about something other than what people think they are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U34	Good waitress! Honourable questioner, good fellow Tõnis Kõiv! The third report is from the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Marust. I think he'll straighten this out. At the same time, listening to the speaker's presentation and answers to the questions, I think that this has been entirely about the development concept of Estonian civil society, its implementation and participatory democracy. So in our discussions, we have not really missed this issue. Laine Randjärv, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U35	Good manager, your microphone's not working!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U36	I thank you for this remark, but I believe you can hear the voice. If you still can't hear me, you need to take a break from the manager's office and fix the microphone. Laine Randjärv, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U37	I would just like to make it clear that I was in the order of speaking and then asked a procedural question. Now, once again, my question goes very far to the end of the line. How do you deal with this situation now in the sense that I was in line after Kalev Kallo? I would like to ask a question after Kalev Kallo.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U38	Let's still benevolently and cheerfully solve this question and make it so that you can ask in the order in which you were registered. First of all, I'm asking the floor operator to restore six and a half minutes of this round. This procedural question just took so long that we're taking six and a half minutes ago. Let's get on with the questions. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U39	Thank you very much to the waitress for a brief and specific presentation. I too had difficult questions about the organization. I read about the development of civil society, and I know that the very large components of civil society are tens of thousands of people who are members of the Defence League, free-willed rescuers, etc. Again, on the subject, I understood that they are not mentioned. Obviously, there are specific features here when speaking in participatory democracy and public administration. Do you think they're a part of the society, too, I think they're a part of civil society, and if they're not, where they belong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U40	Thank you. I do not see any reason to restrict the concept of a society in such a way as to simply exclude that organisation. On the other hand, it seems to me, for example, that when we talk about the Defence League, it may not be very appropriate to see it in the key to democracy in the organisation. I agree that it may be difficult to talk about participatory democracy in the most common sense in the case of the Defence League or other such matters, but on the other hand I would ask again whether it is possible to talk about representative democracy there. It seems to me that this is a slightly different category of organisation. But it seems to me that it is part of civil society; it is part of how citizens, together, are doing something to change or improve their general social environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U41	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U42	I am the representative of the civil society very and very much. This is where I go to work, and that's all. As a representative of the civil society and as a member of such, I would say, on the board of the people's movement, as was the Free Europe, which was involved in the referendum, I can say that all this mass movement of ours and so on, the Euro referendum went into a bit of trouble. Well, it did, and now we're living with it. But I've had one problem since then. If there was talk here that there must be dialogue between them, i.e. statesmen and us, NGOs, what should this dialogue look like? Because we talked, but as a community of Free Europe, we did not feel that our subject was desirable at the time. Not only were we in the decision-making process, but we were not even heard in 2003. How can we change this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U43	A very good question and fearingly there is no place to take out of the bag a simple solution that will make the world new and which will make all the pirates bonfire. Let's just say that there is no other solution here than what we are doing right now. That is why, in my report, I also used this expression or a figure of speech, that it is already an encouraging sign that I am speaking in this way here today. It is something new; it is something that would be very difficult to imagine in a number of European countries that we would otherwise like to set an example for ourselves. And I think the same subject was very well addressed by this 6.5-minute procedural digression.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U44	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would like to come back to this question, which I did not think was answered by my colleague, Mr Aasa, because you wanted to ask a counter question. So it's responsibility. If politicians fail, the next time the voters give their opinion, and one or the other may not be elected. But in order not to raise a question, I'll try to explain a little bit. Suppose some NGOs act as a strong pressure group and are able to push through some kind of decision, which will eventually have to be formulated by politicians. This decision goes wrong, the politicians will be punished afterwards, but the initiators, the representatives of the NGO, are nowhere to be found. I would still like to know how you also see the responsibility of non-governmental organisations for the decisions or matters that have been ultimately achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U46	I am not sure how useful it is to treat a politician as a punishment if he is not elected. You can see it in that key, but I can't see why. On the other hand, I would like to say that the same 'effect' also confronts every person who acts in civil society. I also deal with a number of issues in civil society and do so through a number of different ways. In some cases, I'm specifically on some sort of board. If, for example, as a member of the Council of the Foundation of Goodwill, I make a bad decision, it will have the consequence of how I can continue in this organisation. And even informally, even if the relationship is not formalized in any way, our actions will have consequences, it will then be in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, it will be in the family, it will be anywhere else. Looking at the question of responsibility and punishment, I do not see in any way that this issue is less important in the civil society or that such acts have fewer consequences in the civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U47	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U48	Thank you very much. Good Tarmo Yuristo! I also have a very specific question. As one of the topics of today's debate is the implementation of the development concept of Estonian civil society, it would go to the roots of the topic. Unfortunately, the report did not talk much about the development concept. Perhaps in a few words you will introduce this concept of development that should be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U49	I am afraid that the introduction of the development concept will certainly not fit within the time limit already given to me to reply. What I did try to touch on in connection with the concept of development or to highlight one aspect to be opened for discussion was precisely what has been mentioned, among other things, in a study by the University of Tallinn, which I quoted here. The question is that, with regard to the concept of development, which is undoubtedly necessary in itself, an undoubtedly important and good document, which has contributed very much to the development of civil society and the development of relations between civil society and public authorities in Estonia, it should be understood and borne in mind that it has been written from a very specific point of view. If we use the language, views and methods of this development plan, we may not take note of many aspects, concerns, the key to seeing the daily activities of those who are active in the civil society. That was the thing I wanted to bring out. As regards the development plan in general, I cannot conclude anything, if you have a specific question about some of these points, I can try to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U50	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U51	Thank you. For ten years, it has worked, and the Riigikogu has approved it. I think that this horizontal and vertical issue should be concerned with the same issue. When our people are asked which issues are closest to their hearts, unfortunately, a thing like democracy is somewhere at the end of the ranking, if not the very last, then the latter. Therefore, apart from this debate, there is no wider debate on inclusion, consensus democracy, whatever. What can we do to get this subject up there somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U52	I think there are two ways to answer that. On the one hand, it is perhaps the case that, as long as we are relatively well with democracy, this is not a daily issue. Democracy was a very big question in the 90s, when we ourselves were prepared to do a great deal to get it. Now that it is, if it is the common framework of the day in which we deliver, perhaps its importance does not dawn on people on a daily basis in this way. The second way to approach this issue is, in my opinion, that very often people act is political without being aware of it. Their practices are those that relate to democracy, which connects with participation in the activities of the state, but they do not necessarily see it in this key. My personal specific experience here relates precisely to something that, at the end of last year, received some media attention and was more widely recognised. This was the case of the Pühajärve School, where I tried to help the local community, who fought to keep their school open. This was an excellent example of a situation where there were a number of people together who had a very specific practical concern. What they did not acknowledge from a political point of view was that, by its very nature, it is a question of how public authority or local authority functions in this place. But when they came together, dealing with this problem, they clearly became political. When I spoke to them at the end of the process, the shift was very clearly visible, they saw that it was a question of democracy, it is a question of how they can play their part in organising their lives in inter-election times. That this voice is not simply what was given to the local government and what is asked again in four years' time, but that it is a continuous process and a constant presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U53	I thank you very much for your presentation and your answers, Mr Jüristo. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Many may feel, especially after the speech by Tarmo Jyristo, that the world has somehow fallen over, that the phenomena and processes that have long been vertical are now becoming more and more horizontal. It can be said that vertical or hierarchical is no longer fashionable, now in fashion all that is horizontal and egalitarian. Representative democracy is vertical and the society claims to be horizontal. If you ask an Estonian today which one is cooler, whether politicians and political parties or civil society and enthusiasm, then we generally know the answer. Our debate today on issues of civil society should also be horizontal, although the current procedure is probably not the case, and I think the honourable Riigikogu could consider ways of making the format of such a debate somewhat more horizontal. Honourable ambassadors! This year, ten years have passed since the adoption of the EKAK and two years since the previous debate here in the Riigikogu. By December 2010, eight years after the adoption of the EKAK, civil society had become popular and visible at the same time. But this change in society could not happen overnight, leading to the long-term work of active people. What the phenomenon of this society is exactly, and for what and to whom it is useful, these theories and interpretations are more than one. Tarmo Jyristo said today that he spoke as one of many. However, I also believe that in the last few years, the civil society has become much bolder, more active, more political, and more political in a good way. More people want to take part in making decisions that affect their lives. I think this is a positive development and I can say that this is the country I wanted. Just a few years ago, a large part of the people's understanding of the society and its nature was limited to the New World, which had been heard about, and 'Let's do it! ' with the paws they've been going to. It seemed exciting and interesting, but a little blurry. Now this understanding is much broader and deeper. When I reported to you two years ago on the achievements of one of my responsibilities, civil society, from this very speaking point of view, it was mainly about the new avant-garde citizens' initiatives and the infrastructure supporting civil society. The CSOC has continued to increase the capacity of the associations. The recent report on the Impact Assessment of the UK in Praxis, the Centre for Policy Studies, confirms that it is a capable civil society development engine. ASK has received support from among others, so 'Let's do it! ' as well as the New World, together with nearly 200 other Community projects, all of which have contributed to the development of the society. Last year was a year of volunteering. During this year, we launched a pilot project for cooperation between the three sectors, where private and public professionals volunteered to assist NGOs. This was the first cooperation project in the world to promote volunteering between the three sectors and increase the capacity of associations, thanks to public participation. I myself volunteered, and I can confirm that our public sector can and will support the development of the society, not only by allocating money but also by providing its own know-how. On 26 March 2009, the concept of organising the state budget financing of civil society organisations was approved at the Cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic. The aim of the concept is to create a comprehensive system of public funding for civil society organisations at national and local level. The principles of the concept will be implemented through the implementation of the programme for organising public funding for civil society organisations. This programme will be implemented last autumn and will end in spring 2013. It involves representatives of NGOs, ministries, local authorities and various funds. When I spoke last time about the joint committee of the EKAK and how we failed to take advantage of competence and authority, today I will briefly dwell on the renewal of this joint committee. In April of this year, we launched a public competition to find new members from the representatives of the NGOs of the Joint Commission. Although it is not common practice to organise a public competition for the members of the Advisory Forum, this method was successful. As a result, motivated representatives of sustainable associations with social housing became members of the Commission. The representatives of the state are sectoral experts of the Ministry and the heads of foundations. However, according to the new rules of procedure, in addition to previous tasks, the Joint Commission will also assess possible breaches of the principles of cooperation between the EKAK and interpret the content of the EKAK principles of cooperation. From now on, it will be possible to address critical observations to the Joint Committee if it is known that the other party has violated the principles of cooperation between the ECAK. These were some examples of results that we can be satisfied with. Of course, there are also things that need to be discussed again and thought through. These topics were also briefly mentioned two years ago. These are inclusion, or participatory democracy, and, of course, the development concept of Estonian civil society itself. First of all, from the EKAK. The development concept of Estonian civil society is a strategic document that was adopted by the Riigikogu on December 12, 2002, but the proposal for the development concept started already in spring 2000 under the leadership of the Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations. This is a very good text, which I recommend to everyone to read in person. However, the EKAK can be regarded as an agreement between the elite of that time, which included expectations and values which at that time did not have a broad reach in society. Today, the situation has changed. The survey commissioned by KÜSK concerning values and patterns of behaviour in support of the citizens' initiative in the Estonian population was already briefly quoted by Tarmo Jüristo in the report presented last week. It became apparent that the majority of the Estonian population have rather attitudes that seek greater political involvement. No one doubts that citizens' attitudes support participatory democracy now more than ten years ago. Such a change of attitude cannot take place in an empty space. Therefore, I dare say, despite the general trend to accuse politicians of making the right decisions in all fatal sins, obviously, too. Decisions that have supported and supported participatory democracy and the development of civil society, although these decisions have sometimes been persistent. What decisions am I talking about? For example, the best practice of inclusion, the latest version of which was adopted by the Government of the Republic at the end of last year. The previous good practice of inclusion was in force since 2005. There have been many criticisms of inclusion, often for good reason. The analysis of Praxis' involvement in 2010 shows that 25% of the ministerial officials who responded to the survey do not know to what extent the Ministry is following the principles of good practice on inclusion, as the respondent is not familiar with good practice on inclusion. 34% of officials estimate that good practice in their involvement in the ministry is being followed, 40% believe that only part of it is being followed. At the same time, it should certainly be mentioned here that, as far as I know, good practice on inclusion has been adopted in only three other countries: Finland, Great Britain and Croatia. So, citizens of critics, give time for the atra set, no change will come overnight. Just because no change comes overnight doesn't mean we don't have to do any more. The benefits of inclusion will probably be understood by everyone, and no good idea should be lost in Estonia because we are too small. If people want to have a say, they have to be given that chance. The more views we have on one problem, the more comprehensive the picture we get together, and the closer to the problem, the more practical the information we get from him. These are generally understandable inclusion benefits. At the same time, inclusion must be balanced by the need to make wise decisions at a reasonable pace, without entanglement in endless discussions, claims in the style of 'analyze yet' must not become the brake lever of the necessary decisions. A lot is being said about political parties in this context. In my opinion, political parties are able to change in a rapidly changing political environment, but this change will also take time. Estonians are a very adaptable nation, but social institutions are inert in nature. In representative democracy, too, politicians are still legitimised by the people. But when existing parties are no longer trusted, new ones will just come. The attitudes supporting participatory democracy will certainly also have an impact on the functioning of political parties. The current situation could be compared to the American car industry in the 1970s. The Americans produced big cars because they thought their compatriots loved to drive only big cars. Then came the Japanese, who had a different work culture and made smaller cars that took less fuel. Despite the intention of car manufacturers to create all kinds of market failures and to obtain subsidies, the Americans changed their purchasing habits and eventually the local car industry was forced to change. With the EAK, we have set ourselves the goal of promoting participatory democracy. Participatory democracy, however, requires citizens to see themselves playing an active role in politics. This means that citizens want to participate in discussing and resolving societal problems and want to cooperate. But how many of these citizens do we have? A survey of the citizens' initiative at Tallinn University reveals the fact that almost 2/3 of respondents want politicians to involve citizens more, but only 18% of respondents are actively involved in the activities of some citizens' organisations. In addition, there are 13% of passive members and this ratio has not changed in the last five years. With this ratio, we are well behind the Nordic countries, while we are ahead of most Eastern European countries. The reason for the non-membership of the organisation was the lack of interest most frequently mentioned. This is contrary to the established ambition at the level of attitudes to be more involved in social processes. They want politicians to get involved, but they don't want to be involved. The main reason for this situation is that the respondents themselves consider the difficult economic situation which does not allow participation. Through external activities, newcomers are added to the citizens' initiative field, but to a modest extent. The study shows that citizens' initiative is most affected by the characteristics and characteristics commonly attributed to the "middle class": good education, economic performance and the general interest in what is happening in society and politics. So when we talk about participatory democracy, we are still mainly dealing with the elite, not grassroots democracy. Speakers for participatory democracy are also part of the elite, whether they like it or not. At the same time, it is natural; this is also confirmed by the experience of other countries: when people become wealthier, they seek alternative ways of expressing themselves, which is also greater participation in society. Contributing to the desire to contribute to social change can also result in dissatisfaction with the desired change, because the opinion expressed is not heard. Unsatisfiedness comes easily when expectations exceed opportunities. Today we see such dissatisfaction in society a lot. This could in turn affect active citizenship and the development of participatory democracy. However, I believe that, above all, active citizens are being raised from low ground and that our schools have a major role to play in this. In many of our schools, knowledge is passed on on in a disciplined format, one speaks in front of the class, and others are forced to listen, and this practice does not encourage thinking or critical thinking. The teachers, of course, are not to blame. We consider this kind of education to be important in wishing our children the best. And just as many teachers do not dare to give up control in their classrooms to encourage student participation, many officials and politicians also respond to the redistribution of power in society. For officials, inclusion means in particular additional work. At the conference on the development of democracy held in the conference hall of the Riigikogu in spring, Jüri Adams made an intriguing statement that if he were an official, he would not be involved, because if all the time it was necessary to involve him, when would he still have to do his job? Daniel Raspberry replied that involvement is the official's job. Citizens want politicians to involve citizens in decision-making processes even during the inter-election period. An analysis of the practice of involving government agencies in 2010 revealed that in those who have not been involved in policy-making in the last two years, almost four out of five people chose to respond: 'I have not been invited. " Citizens want to participate in decision-making, which means giving up power to a certain extent in the case of a politician. It's not easy, because it's something new and no new thing takes root easily. But, nonetheless, we can now claim that we have attitudes in favour of participatory democracy. What must be done to ensure that participatory democracy develops and really reaches the grassroots level? This is the question of how to raise more active people and people interested in politics. To do so, we need schools where teachers have greater freedom and responsibility and where our children receive the best civic education, which, in addition to providing knowledge, also increases active citizenship. We need to pay more attention to volunteering for young people so that we can get to know citizens' joint action at an early age. We need more powerful civil society organisations that are less dependent on public finances, who are more cooperative and more able to involve new members. We need to ensure a sufficiently free and secure operating environment for the associations. And we certainly need economic growth so that people have a rewarding job and time to deal with self-expression, whether political or not. We policy makers, of course, need more and more substantial involvement of citizens and modernisation of the practice of policy making and government. Society is changing rapidly and we need to keep up with the changes. Honourable Riigikogu, this list was certainly not final, but I will finish with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U55	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. But, good fellows, before we go to the questions, it is my great honour to welcome the members of the Bundestag on our press gallery! There has always been good cooperation between Estonia and Germany. I wish you strength here in the Riigikogu and in Estonia at all! Herzlich willkommen! [[Let's hear it.]] Let's get to the questions. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When we talk about involvement in civil society, it is often 'civil society and political parties', 'civil society and government', 'civil society and the Riigikogu', or at central level. At local government level, these issues often come to the agenda only when the municipality, for example, wants to shut down a school. My question is about the relationship between representative democracy and participatory democracy. Do you think that a significant reduction in the number of local authorities favours participatory democracy or vice versa? From a participatory democracy point of view, is reducing the number of municipalities rather a positive or negative process? In the end, there must also be something to get involved in. If, at the end of the day, very few local authorities remain, what about this participatory democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U57	Thank you. I am of the opinion that the activities of civil society organisations in municipalities with a very low population are in some ways being hampered. For example, if there are hundreds or hundreds of people living in a local government, the municipality often acts as a village society there. This deprives people of the opportunity to organise their lives by means of a citizens' initiative. If the local government acts as a village society in essence, there will no longer be "oxygen" or "free space" for a genuine citizens' initiative. I think that a municipality with a higher population will leave more opportunities for civic activity. It's where the border is. You can argue about that. But it is certainly not as low as the number of inhabitants of the smallest local governments in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U58	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As a pragmatist, I have one question on the basis of a concrete example. This spring, as we all know, was one of the current topics of ACTA and related issues. Without wishing to open up the content of ACTA, society created a movement whose members called themselves an Internet community. Of course it was a non-formal movement. That's my question. Is the emergence of such one-off or theme-based stakeholders (maybe they could be called so) now a new direction for the development of NGOs? Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U60	I don't think that's a very new direction. I immediately recall from my experience, for example, the Nõmme Tee Society, which has acted as a very active civil society. At the same time, it was created in its time to fight against the establishment of a road in the district of Nõmme. I think there's been an internship all along. Life will show which associations will remain a one-off community and which will grow out of one-off action and become a more broad-based civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U61	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have a question about the confrontation of NGOs. Mr Jüristo spoke here about the fact that one of the reasons for the confrontation between political parties and other NGOs is probably that this language and thinking are either too institutional or political. Do you think there's anything else to do here and what these reasons are? Could that be funding? Perhaps politicians are afraid that there may be too many ideas and that someone wants to turn themselves into a party again? What do you think are the reasons for this confrontation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U63	Thank you. As has been said today, it is not so easy to draw this line. When we talk about political parties, parties have thousands and thousands of members. The number of people belonging to parties in Estonia is comparable to the number of people belonging to other NGOs, especially if we exclude housing associations and do not deal with them here. Certainly the reason is different language and different approach. Indeed, the same things are understood differently. But I think there's only one principle and value left, which is also in the EKAK. I've got the EKAK right now, here's the chapter 'Cooperation Principles and Values'. I really like the value of respect. The EAK points out that respect must be mutual. The citizens' initiative and public authority have a different, complementary role to play in shaping and implementing policies. I dare say that even the representatives of the so-called civil society have not always adhered to this principle in their statements of public authority, as a soft expression. This, too, must have caused a bear's feelings and distrust.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U64	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U65	Thank you very much. However, I think that we are among the post-communist countries rather than liberal democracies in terms of civil society. I only half agree with your idea that, in order to improve the situation, there should be better civic education in schools, etc. I am saying that the second part here should be society as a whole, so that the citizen feels that his voice and thoughts are valued. That is my question: what have you personally done as a minister so that civil society can take root in the Republic of Estonia? I would like to hear a few or three works that specifically describe the fact that the status of civil society has improved thanks to your actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U66	Thank you. I had an interesting meeting with the Iraqi Kurdistan delegation some time ago under the leadership of the EMSL. The members of the delegation asked me how I, as a member of the government, could lead civil society. I said I would not lead, civil society cannot be led, it is still developing itself. But if you ask me what I can point out, I think that the biggest thing that will be put on the plus side of the last time, and also of my term of office, is the launch of the Civil Society Foundation and its good work. I can read a number of programs that we've implemented through the FAQ. In any case, thanks to the SKY, the capacity of NGOs has clearly increased. No one can deny that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U67	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U68	Thank you. Much has been said today about cooperation and involvement, but also about responsibility. When we prepared a reform of free higher education, I dare say that there was a great deal of involvement in the representative organisations of civil society. Its pattern may have been how students stood up for their interests. I also dare say that three quarters of the proposals made by student representative organisations were taken into account. I was somewhat puzzled when I heard the students categorically claiming that their proposals had not been taken into account. Hence my question: do you feel that bilateral cooperation is also developing in such a way that civil society and society feel that their voice is not only on the back of a whip official or politician, but also on the back of responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U69	With this inclusion, it is not the case that, if previously, in Estonia it was complained that it was not involved, then it is now complaining that it is formally involved, i.e. does not involve in substance. These are the different stages of inclusion: it is one thing to send something for coordination and opinion; the other is to organise consultations and, in essence, to discuss openly what opportunities can be taken into account by a partner. Of course, it also requires responsible partner behaviour. I dare not comment on a concrete example, because without being a member of this committee, I cannot appreciate how many proposals were taken into account and how many are not. But on the other hand, it must be understood, as I said, that a balance must be found somewhere, and that does not mean that the interests of one party are fully taken into account. That's what the other side has to understand. This is where Tarmo Jyristo was asked about responsibility. In fact, the EKAK has 11 objectives. My favorite goal among them is to develop citizens' sense of responsibility towards their families, fellow citizens, their home, their country and the world. This means not only an opportunity to demand something, but also a sense of its role and self-responsibility, which must accompany it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U70	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U71	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. The concept of the development of Estonian civil society, which has been discussed here today, was made long and thorough in its time. There were some who thought it was too long. It's been living for a while now. How do you think this concept has gone in general? Does it need to be improved, or is it as good as it needs to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U72	Good questioner! I'm not the person who speaks for Kristen Michal. If there is a draft coming from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that is of great concern to the people or to civil society, we will still try to ask the people. Last but not least, I can mention the same issue of funding for political parties. We called on many opinion leaders and institutions, including representatives of civil society, to give their opinion, which they did. We're trying to review them and find them some common denominator. But I can't speak for the ministry here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U73	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U74	Thank you. I am deliberately quoting the EKAK here today to give more interest in this document and to read it. As I said in the original speech, I think this is a very good text, which has been drafted quite a while ago. As a society, we have clearly moved towards these objectives, principles of cooperation and values. Maybe right now it feels like a oh, which now has gone loose and why these moods. In fact, this is what is wanted to be participative democracy, to be spoken out, to be involved in the decision-making process. There's nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, that's what you want. I think that the greatest value of the renewal of the EKAK would be to pay more attention to this document, to deal with it and to reread these principles, to be quoted, used and debated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U75	Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U76	Thank you. Dear Minister, Political parties are getting more and more scolded day by day because they have too much money, they get too much money, and God knows how they still use it. What is your opinion on the financing of civil society organisations? Have they had enough resources and how they have been used?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U77	It seems to me that those who get the money always seem to have little, but for those who give the money, it seems to be a lot. As far as funding for civil society organisations is concerned, there are limits to absorption. There is no point in flooding them with money and hoping that the result will come soon. The result still comes with gradual growth and development. There have been, and there have been, very different opportunities for development. NGOs receive money from many lines of the Estonian state budget. I am not going to count them all here, but money will be allocated to them from the gambling tax, the European Structural Funds and the same much-spoken SKY. However, I am concerned that funding has become very central to the public sector, especially since the recession came to our beloved homeland. We need to think seriously about how to increase the capacity of NGOs to obtain more money from the private sector. If the public sector plays a very large role in the funding of NGOs, it will inevitably create more tensions in the public debate and more tensions in the funding of political parties. When funding sources are more diverse, NGOs feel safer, they do not feel so threatened by a potential situation when they are suddenly no longer financed by the public sector in the past. Then the debate will be freer, and I think that the attitude towards funding political parties will also be more peaceful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U79	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! This spring, as we know, nine rescue officers were shut down in Estonia. It was hoped that voluntary rescue commandos would emerge in their place. How has this hope been fulfilled, and how many voluntary rescue officers have been created to replace these nine?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U80	I cannot answer with a certain number, because I am not prepared for this question. But I know that in the discussions on next year's budget, additional resources have been very painfully discussed, precisely for voluntary action in the field of rescue. I hope that these discussions will end successfully and that we can further support this area. As far as the creation of volunteer commandos is concerned, I was impressed, perhaps I am wrong, that several local leaders were essentially not interested in launching volunteer commandos until there was no hope that the state commando would be maintained on the ground. It was intended to prove that volunteering in this area and in this place is simply not possible, and that is why the national command should certainly be maintained. Now that the decisions have been made, and there is peace in this regard, that in the coming years, at least as far as I know, there will be no more changes or closures, the volunteers will also be able to build up their activities and cover this need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U81	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U82	Thank you. Dear waitress, The concept and development plans for civil society development concern the country and civil society as partners. It is known that one partner, the authority of the country, and the one who represents the country on this matter. For example, in today's debate, the state is represented by you in the day-to-day activities of the Riigikogu and the executive. What is the question of the relationship between these partners, whether horizontal or vertical, with the presence of the other partner and the powers of its representatives? We witnessed here a strange situation in which the representative of this other equal partner, a particular natural person, did not know who he was representing and how he had come to be here. How are these matters resolved in everyday activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U83	As I said, in the joint committee of the EKAK, we simply solved this issue through a competition in which several NGOs were nominated. From time to time, the topic arises that no kind of elite or hierarchy has emerged on the partner's side, in which, in turn, someone starts to feel that it is no longer participative democracy, but that it has come into some sort of hierarchy. There have been charges of this kind. In general, the civil society is capable, mobile, and also so active in public speaking that when a situation of this kind arises, there will also be very strong criticism and those who have taken the role of representation will react immediately. It's sort of worked out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U84	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U85	Thank you. Priit Sibula, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Minister! Guests! We like to talk about success and admire our belly button. However, it has to be acknowledged that there are many areas where most of the progress is still ahead and few have been made. The area that we are talking about today is also one where progress is still coming, and perhaps there is a need not to make progress, but to recast some of the simplest things. In my opinion, the best example is how six and a half minutes were discussed whether the speaker represents someone in front of us, and if so, who he represents exactly, and so on. From what he said, I had complete confidence that a person represented me and many other representatives of the NGOs, and I had no problems. I think it is not just the representatives of the institutions that need to be present here, but this is more of a matter of our rules of procedure. On the basis of the NGO viability assessment index, Estonia has the best indicators from Central and Eastern European countries. If it is estimated on a scale of 1 to 7 where 1 represents the best result and 7 the worst, Estonia has a figure of 2, Latvia has a figure of 2.7 and Lithuania has a figure of 2.8. Although it is self-esteem and Estonians like to be at the top of all the tables, this study still reflects something. In addition, associations naturally appreciate themselves. But in order to succeed, we need goals and action. This is an area where we can do a great deal ourselves, both personally and political parties. Political parties can and should take the lead, but not dominate. Maybe that's the biggest problem we've had so far. Civil society does not grow down from the top, just as no other thing in the world grows down from the top. Everything's still growing up. But for something to grow, it takes a living environment that supports growth. Without such an environment, even the toughest bacteria will die. Let it be said that I believe in social organisation and democracy carried by political parties. This role can only be important and impeccable if political parties are open, willing to listen and take account of it. Here, parties will certainly be able to improve and learn from other organisations in the third sector. At the moment, however, it seems to me that rather than cooperating, there has been a confrontation. This will not take us any further, nor will it improve the situation in any way. I see two main reasons here. The first is likely to be due to inequality or to the fact that many feel that funding is unfair, that political parties are financially better off and more stablely funded than other organisations in the third sector. But I already said that I consider it justified on the one hand, given the role of the parties. Another reason is that the other organisations have been convened for various reasons. We can divide these reasons broadly into two. Some organisations have been set up to realise the private interests of the founders. I don't think the public has much to contribute here. However, other organisations have been set up to solve a public problem or to implement an idea. In these cases, the additional contribution is certainly justified. However, the associations need freedom and adequate security. The state must ensure adequate funding and the necessary legal environment so that associations can operate in a sustainable manner. According to the European Social Survey 2010, 5.9% of Estonian residents have worked in another organisation or association in the last 12 months. This figure is 38.8% for Finland, 3% for Latvia and Lithuania and 4.7% for 2008 respectively. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U87	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U88	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As a small reflection on what one word or another means to us and how we use it, I want to come for a moment to what we mean by inclusion and what we mean by participation. It is, I think, a little bit of a taste that really needs to be involved, dragged along, dragged along, so maybe it is participation that describes more precisely what civil society really expects. You described a study which showed that the percentage of people actually participating in the last five years has not increased by a dash. It's probably a coincidence that for as long as you've been a curating minister in this field. My question: what are the most successful examples of the proposals you have put forward in the government, with which you have provoked real participation, and with which your colleagues have implemented? Where do you see their results yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U89	We have not dealt with provocation, but we have knocked on the conscience of our colleagues and called on the ministries to have an engagement coordinator in all of them. Certainly the Ministry's involvement coordinators are a transitional solution. As I said, inclusion must be carried out by everyone as a day-to-day job, but as long as it is seen that there is little involvement, it is important that a particular person or people in a public institution be responsible for inclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U90	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U91	Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of civil society. It seems to be symbolic and meaningful that at a time when twenty years of the restoration of Estonian statehood and state institutions, we have focused our focus on how to involve the people more and make participatory democracy more effective. However, the substance of my story must begin with an explanation. Since, until the end of yesterday's working day, the text of the report by Mr Jyristo was not available to me, I cannot discuss with him, answer the questions he has raised or engage in dialogue with him, but I must speak as a monologue about what I myself and the committee that I chair have considered necessary and correct. The concept of civil society development was adopted by the Riigikogu on 12 December 2002, almost ten years ago. There is no doubt that, in this decade, we have undergone a major and rapid development in both democracy and technology. Without doubt, we need a critical assessment and reflection of the progress made so far and a set of new objectives, as well as more effective forms of work. This is not only because the last paragraph of this concept obliges Parliament to discuss this issue as a matter of major national importance for more than two years. This is an important matter of our lives. Civil society, or civil society, is understood to be a little different in the world, but according to the EKAK, it is understood to mean 'own-initiative cooperation between people to pursue their own interests and to participate in the discussion and decision-making of public affairs, as well as associations, networks and institutions that allow this cooperation'. NGOs recognise, at least on the basis of their code of ethics, the differences in thinking and the diversity of associations and their objectives. Cooperation between non-governmental organisations, including cooperation with non-governmental organisations from political parties, i.e. large NGOs, is based on well-meaning partnership, mutual respect and recognition. In order for society to function normally and democratically and for members of society to get along in a mutually satisfactory way, three essential prerequisites are needed. Firstly, a capable and efficient public sector, secondly, a strong business sector, thirdly, an active third sector, or 'civil society', as we have been saying recently. There is no need to overemphasise that none of them can function without the other, at the expense of the other, by rejecting the other or by confronting him. One can't go through another. An integral part of democracy is the ability to work together, with an adequate sense of each other's role and responsibility. Estonia has an estimated 35000 non-profit institutions, foundations, partnerships. The more precise number of the latter is unclear because the legal regulation of partnerships is very general and does not necessarily require legal registration. Estonian civil society, its organisation and awareness have made significant progress and deserves full recognition. NGOs employ around 4 to 5% of the workforce. According to the Ministry of Finance, seven million euros were allocated to NGOs for direct payments last year and, in total, they could submit applications to 67 million euros for various projects, programmes and activities. The funding for applications came and comes from a wide range of sources in Estonia and outside Estonia. In 2008, the Foundation for Civil Society started and did so successfully. I will highlight three aspects. Firstly, according to the EKAK, one of the aims of civil society is to work together on its own initiative to meet its interests. I stress, to do what I want to do. Secondly, NGOs employ around 4 to 5% of the workforce. Thirdly, last year they had EUR 7 million in direct payments and applications were able to generate EUR 67 million from various sources of financing. Let us admit that this is a very significant amount of public money to represent our interests, the use of which is decided by the civil society itself, and the rules for its use are much more liberal than in the public sector. I believe that leaving more freedom in this is intentional. This is important for civil society to feel responsible and trusted. Ultimately, society as a whole benefits when people feel responsible and act on it. True, this money is also intended to participate in the discussion and decision-making of public affairs. I want to tell you more about this. There may be a need for a closer explanation of what it means to be involved in public affairs and decision-making. If you look in a very broad picture, we are all citizens, members of political parties, civil servants and business people, members of society. We are all civil society in our own sense. We all have our own interests, goals, rights and obligations, each in its own segment. We are responsible for our country, our people and our constitution. As a result, there is no reason to oppose one sector to another, to be in confrontation or to treat each other hostilely. It cannot be overlooked that the power of the state is reliable and more legitimate, that its decisions are more weighed up and that it meets the expectations of more people when it listens to everyone who is affected by the decision and who has something to say about it. Civil society is one channel, an environment in which members of society get together and debate self-organisation, express their perceptions and expectations of the affairs of society. Understanding and decision-making will be compelling and credible only if there is a democratic process of information and inclusion within civil society, too, unless the debate comes back to the egotrip of individual hard-word leaders. However, even if internal democracy works well, we cannot forget that a particular NGO or NGO, or even an umbrella organisation, is one, but by no means the only segment or lobby of society. There are others who also need to be heard and who have the right to express their opinion. In doing so, their position may conflict with those expressed by other members of civil society or other sectors. However, what is inevitable is that the holder of power must finally make one decision, despite the multiple nature of the proposals. I would like to state that the right to participate and to be heard does not mean that it must be done exactly as one party wishes. In other words, one party cannot dictate a decision or make a different decision from its own. I believe, among other things, that proper lobbying rules would help us to better understand in the future. Secondly, I would like to point to the problem of expressing and conveying opinions arising from today's technology. We have survived a situation where the Riigikogu was sent a laconic opinion in dozens, even hundreds of ways, using copying and sticking methods. I do not think that this is an appropriate way to debate or argue in substance. Civil society umbrella organisations should take on a role and responsibility to generalise and shape the opinions of their members within the organisation into a single document, as well as to show who expressed their opinion and how the summary came about. This is not a whim, it is a respectful and considerate way of doing things together, because both the authorities represented by the Riigikogu today and the free society use public money in their work and ultimately they do one thing. Thirdly, we have been using the format of today's meeting and discussion for some time now - ten years. We are talking about the EKAK in the Commission and in the large hall in general. I'm guessing this format is losing out in this form. Firstly, civil society has proven itself and it has been developed, it has become an integral and recognised part of society, and there is no need yet and yet to convince one another of its necessity and importance. The time has come to focus on individual issues to be more specific and productive, which at parliamentary level means direct cooperation with one or another of the committees of the Riigikogu, depending on the subject agreed upon. All those who are familiar with the work of the Riigikogu know that the large hall does not offer the most suitable opportunities for substantive discussion or cooperation, but effective productive cooperation should be what both parties request. There are some problems to discuss together in Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U92	Dear waitress, thank you. You have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! The advantages and disadvantages of civil society so far have been discussed at length today. But what do you think would be the future development of civil society?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U94	Good questioner! This is primarily for civil society to decide what they want to do and how they want to do it. I believe that civil society, as we know and know today, has come to stay. This is a natural and inevitable part of society. It is clear, however, that it is going through development, just as it is going through development by a society that is constantly changing. So I would leave this issue to those people and not tell them what to do and where to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U95	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U96	Thank you! Dear waitress, You actually answered my question at the end of the report. It also seems to me that this format, when you just listen to a report every two years and then you discuss it, has lived your time. I do not have a question, I simply very much support the idea that this debate can take place much more often, not every two years, because those people who have been present here today are doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U97	I agree with you. Obviously, in addition to what you have been talking about, we should focus on individual issues, whether education, the environment or some third, fourth or fifth issue. But if you just convince each other once more in general, it doesn't take us much further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U98	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The University of Tallinn carried out a study on people working outside Estonia and their social networks, as well as the citizens of foreign countries working in Estonia and their social networks in 2009. As we know, civil society is primarily based on social networks. This study pointed out that people working across the border lose their previous social network and that it is also very difficult for them to create a new social network. They're in between. We know that very many people are working outside Estonia, and this number is increasing. As far as you know, from the point of view of civil society, have there been any discussions or brainstorming on how to keep these people in our social network or how to keep them as members of civil society? Has there been any work in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U100	Good questioner! I do not consider myself to be a very well-informed person in this area, but what you are talking about, networking and online, we should certainly discuss in the future, for example, at the level of the Riigikogu and then at the level of civil society. But this isn't about the big hall, and I can't answer you like this. But I sense that this is an important problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U101	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U102	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to thank you very much for the concrete proposals, although not all of them I personally may have reason to agree. But these were at least very clear suggestions and the discussion can certainly continue. I wanted to ask you how you, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will comment on the current situation. A little more than a year ago, in the summer of 2011, the new Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal, announced that, as a result of legislative developments, he wants to stand up for the implementation of good legislative practice, which is part of participatory democracy and inclusion. This has been followed by the statements by the Prime Minister on ACTA, the multifaceted statements by the Minister of Finance on EFSF and ESM, the change in unemployment security contributions, due to the conviction of one party, etc. What happened to Kristen Michal? Where is the desire to implement and involve good legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U103	Good waitress! I fully agree with you that civil society, civil society and the Riigikogu cannot be opposed, all the more so since at least two thirds of the Riigikogu is certainly one of the most active parts of the society. In fact, there's a society sitting here outside any doubt, at least a larger or, let's say, a more active part of the society. But now another question arises. I'm asking as a lawyer. The definition of NGOs includes that they represent some of their interests, they may be views or other such things. This raises the question of how to link the existence of civil society structures outside Parliament. There is one part of civil society here, but there is another. How can this be linked to lobbying practices? The lobby group has specific rights. Does this concern everyone or not? For example, I'm a representative of the civil society, but I can't be a lobbyist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U104	The NGO or civil society is made up of a wide variety of groups and cannot be subjected to any kind of systematics, nor can it be highly hierarchical. I imagine, perhaps by a bit, that lobbying rules should apply not only to the business sector but also to NGOs, because NGOs may sometimes also represent certain commercial interests. Whatever principle they are organized or whatever interests they seek, but the rules to bring their message before the legislator should be common to all. I believe that, in the coming period, one of our major tasks is to work through lobbying rules, to coordinate them and to introduce them. This would make the representation of its interests on a more equal footing, clearer and transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U105	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U106	Thank you. There have been allegations of political party funding (especially during the NASA debate) that the state and politicians do not support the society and grab all the money for themselves. These have been accusations in extremely sharp colors. Why don't you repeat the amounts that support non-governmental organisations in Estonia from the state budget and tell me if this is a large or small amount compared to NASA?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U107	I said this data on the basis of information received from the Ministry of Finance: EUR 7 million comes in direct payments and EUR 67 million is intended for various projects, programmes and activities. In the latter case, funding comes from sources located both in Estonia and outside Estonia. As you remember, political parties receive a certain amount of money from the state budget. For NASA, EUR 900000 was foreseen. You can argue about this amount, money always brings debate, but I believe that NASA itself is the right idea. If we look at what is more missing in Estonia, whether there are eloquent people or certain doctrines, ideology, worldview, then I think it is more lacking that political parties and their representatives follow a certain ideology, doctrine, a world view that directs their behaviour and that makes their behaviour more predictable. When this part is less developed, one person and their ambitions or daily problems become decisive, and society may not be as stable as it could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U108	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. One of the authors of the question expressed the opinion that political parties are non-profit organisations, almost societies, that we are talking about similar associations in the case of political parties, as we consider to be 'NGOs'. Is this regulation, which, however, distinguishes parties from others, legally sufficient to say that parties are not ordinary non-profit organisations and are not part of the same line, or do you think that it is legally one of the specific options of non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U110	Thank you! They're basically the same thing. The difference is not qualitative, but quantitative. The party has a large number of members, organised and regulated. In this sense, it's a special option for a non-profit organization, as you called it. I don't see any difference other than quantitative.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U111	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Good colleagues, I'm opening negotiations. I would ask the representatives of the political groups to speak first. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We're very rich, at least in our experiences and traditions. Such traditions, now promoted as attributes of civil society, have played a very important role in all our history. Some of this tradition has still been found during different regimes. An example could be Estonia's good talgu tradition, which has sometimes been declared a very new initiative. The powerful development engine of Estonian national culture has been various civil society associations. For more information, see the book "Species and Change in Society: From peasant society to nation state." Civil society cannot be a national institution, but an environment for fruitful cooperation between the Communities. It must be occupied by various NGOs, associations, associations, associations of like - minded ones, or even hobbies, and congregations. Civil society is linked to the citizens' initiative, to specific people and to specific places. Although very smart people sit in the City Council of Tartu, for example, it sometimes turns out that it is wise to ask the Soup City Society for advice on the development of the whole Supilinna because the closer decisions are made, the cheaper and more practical they are. They are much cheaper than when deciding to delegate the capital or, for example, the capital of our emerging common state to Brussels. But the cornerstone of civil society is said to us by our European colleagues and smart books, the local government, also in Estonia, was in history, and so is today. The national independence of Estonia would be unthinkable without the experience of the local government of our people for half a hundred years. It was in the municipality that learned what a policy is, which is democracy, which is demagoguery, what does taxation mean, what a budget, which is a majority or a minority, what things are compromises. Politicians know that confrontation and certain rivalry exist between different authorities, including legislative and executive powers, but also between local and central authorities. This is where the peculiarities of Estonia begin! Tori in Hell's mythology, which is an inexhaustible collection of political technology experience, is the central figure of the old-fashioned. When asked what to do when the boy's mass is already large but can't read, the old-fashioned child was quickly advised to make a new child because it is more pleasant and maybe the new child can read right away. That is how we try to develop civil society: we do not talk about tree trunks, but we like to talk about leaves and jewelry. Instead of fixing the foundation of civil society, we are talking about how someone comes along and, in addition to his work, the work that others have done is done in an instant. As long as we are saying that local authorities are not competent enough and there are bad people, which is why their competences should be curtailed or their responsibilities given to someone else, so far we can only talk about building civil society without a foundation. An important feature of civil society is that it avoids the alienation of citizens from the country and creates opportunities for its creative initiative in the organisation of society. In the European Union, which seeks to build civil society, it seeks to overcome the contradictions between the central government and local government and to find synergies in their cooperation with the fact that the state and local authorities are not in the position of boss and subordinate but of partners. However, the legislator shall ensure that local authorities have a sufficient income base independent of the central authority for the performance of their tasks. By the way, I was personally taught these simple truths by the contemporary Mayor of Tartu Andrus Ansip. Unfortunately, there are some strange syndromes on the scene of this partnership in Estonia right now. The term "mouse syndrome" is used in literature for some brave politicians. The main feature of this scheme is the mouse, for which there is no more powerful or scarier animal than a cat. That's why he's doing everything exactly the opposite of what a cat would like. In doing so, he believes himself to be completely independent, especially of a cat. In Estonian politics, this funny story was transformed into Savisaare syndrome years ago, which means that the ruling coalition must remember a number of laws, even the famous gender equality law, to reform precisely so that the cat does not like it for God. Our ministers are so well placed to play this role that even if they answer questions about the development of some part of South-East Estonia, you will not hear about the situation in Räpina, which was asked about, but about Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U113	Dear waitress, would you like more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U114	Thank you. Worse is that if the Centre Party, Tallinn, Savisaar and the local government tend to be synonymous, this prevents the development of local government and also civil society. There is another problem that the founders of civil society must face. It's a national issue. The time limit only lets me touch it, but I'm still going to mention a line. Between the two World Wars, the apology of the basic nation dominated in all European countries, the inevitable part of which was some superiority towards national minorities and, usually, neighbouring peoples. Civic society, which the European Union is vigorously striving for, on the other hand, gives priority not to a nation but to a loyal citizen of the country, regardless of its nationality or colour of skin. When I mentioned this aspect in one of the presentations, the representative of one of the parties represented in this Chamber could not fail to mention that I have watched too much Moscow television. But, you know, I was talking about European Union documents. When someone noticed that something about what I was saying today came across, I was, indeed, talking about the old blanks already in 2007 in this very Chamber during this debate on the same issue. But, you know, nothing important has changed. We have a long way to go to build civil society. We have a rich historical experience for this, smart women and men in Parliament, in municipalities and in society as a whole, who can learn from their own success and loss stories as well as from others. Of course, a fool learns only from his mistakes, if he learns at all, but he learns about others' own and their history. Good luck to all those who contribute to the creation of civil society by reason and force! Surely we are moving toward the desired goal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U115	Another problem besides funding, it seems to me, is fear. We tend to be self-centered, and on many occasions when we are offered a hand, we suspect that it is a newcomer and a competitor who wants to drink some ideas or good action for us. Let's not be so paranoid! Estonia's democratic culture is still developing. We should pay more attention to civic education and to raising citizens with critical thinking. To this end, as has already been said before, teachers in social education should be taught, so that in schools, social education is not given only by teachers of history, but by people who can devote themselves fully to this subject. At the same time, we must learn to respect each other, listen and cooperate. Civil education is provided both at school and in civil society organisations. The latter should be a school for democracy. However, as not many new members have come to them in recent years, we should examine whether there is learning, establishing and rooting democratic values and practices in non-Community citizens' initiatives, such as networks, etc. As a leader of the civil society support group, I can say that the better days of the civil society support group of the Riigikogu are definitely still ahead and our actions in the future are more active than they have been so far. I wish us all serious debates, talk, but above all, listening and taking into account. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U116	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Since I'm definitely getting carried away with this, I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U118	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U119	A good minister used the expression 'today they fell on their hands' or 'dump' or something like that. I'll be honest with you, there was nothing like that. Everything is as it was ten years ago, the same argument continues. My deep bow to Kaja Kallas and Laine Randjärv, Jüri Ratas, too. If I look at two more lines, I'm gonna get a little sad, but that doesn't matter right now. What matters is that the approach is exactly the same. We have not come to a better understanding of the subject. I firmly believe that, in this form, majority democracy is not even yesterday's democracy, but the day before yesterday. Today, when everyone gets smart at an insane rate and information moves from point (a) to point (b) as soon as possible, the way forward is that we talk less about majority democracy (we cannot get rid of it because it has its advantages) and more about consensus democracy, about working together democracy, about agreement democracy, about all of this. Figuratively speaking, the attitude has not changed. Some are convinced that because they have been chosen and therefore make decisions, and as a result they can be shut down in some cases, they are therefore in a different situation than those who always remain free. That question came up very well today. It's been the same all along, but today it kind of appeared in a weird context of who you are. Evidently, in contrast to the fact that one side of the republics, or politics, has taken such an attitude, the other side has also emerged. I'd like to do some snips for my friends on the balcony and elsewhere. I do not think it makes sense to upset politicians because they have to run and collect votes. That's not why they're unclean, stupid or anything crazy. It is not fair to consider yourself better because elections do not stand and votes do not collect! Actually, we're in the same boat, we're doing one thing, we're one thing, we're in the same way, we're in a different way. During this decade, the level has been very uneven. There are places where you have to tell me why you're not invited to participate or listen. At the same time, there are places where these elected individuals decide on important national issues, together with representatives of otherwise authorised civil society. There has also been a major change in substance in these ten years, when one of the functions performed by the State so far went to a public entity. To my great sadness, an active, good politician who was then the Minister of Justice and is now the Minister of Culture considered it a concession to the social democrats. I'm pretty sure we haven't won a single vote for this. I can't imagine anyone really noticed that. We had a completely different purpose. We wanted to find the right and most appropriate place in society to decide on a serious and real problem. This problem is unemployment. It was the only purpose, we had no other purpose. I'm sure the opposite is interesting. In the same way, it is probably natural that such action- or theme-based communities develop quickly, but usually they are directed against something, less often they are in favour of something. A different problem has arisen in the day-to-day work. I know that efforts have been made to give decision-making powers to the NGOs, for example, so that they can decide even how traffic should be organised in the district. Who knows better than them if the street has to be one-way or two-way? Interestingly, they have abandoned it and felt that it was not up to them to decide. Let me give you another example. It's an old serious matter. Too bad Rait can't be here right now. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs could address this issue. This topic is as follows: how could other societies be better involved in the work of the Riigikogu? Remember, this is the age-old place of dispute when the work of the Riigikogu must be open or closed. We currently have one form of meeting, namely the Commission meeting, closed unless the Commission decides otherwise. The chairman of the committee shall have the right to invite persons from outside the committee. The reason why this is so is for those who have dealt more with it. It turns out that it may not always be useful to make public the meetings of the Commission, because then the meeting will become an election debate or a forum-like TV show. There is nothing wrong with that, but it is bad when there is another meeting next to this meeting, which is informal, and the decision-making point is then an informal meeting. That's why we had an idea. We already have a number of good connections who have worked with the Riigikogu all the time. This work, as far as I know, has been particularly grateful in the Committee on Culture, where it has been done for years. In other committees, this work has been more random. According to the Rules of Procedure, everything depends on the decision of the chairman of the committee. We offered one chance and sent it to the most active actors in lawmaking known to us outside this hall. But I have to say, we took time off because the answers were from the wall to the wall. There were those who said that there were too few, and there were those who said that everything was very well, that nothing needed to be changed. This could be an issue that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could develop, for example, so that no one would say again, for God's sake, that it is a victory for the Socialists. We had this simple idea that we had seen many times in the work of the Commission how the sizes or other things agreed before with civil society turned into something else and no one understood who did it. That's not fair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U120	Good waitress! Unfortunately, eight minutes are up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U121	Long live strong societies, including strong political parties!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U122	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Rummo Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U123	Just in case, I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U124	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U125	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I could start with a lively example of how the Liberalism Academy, which was brought to life by reform parties, has initiated free thought chambers to involve all interested and competent people in brainstorming to find the best solutions to the specific problems facing the people. The first experience in joint work on the subject of child benefits and in designing changes to the system is very good. I am taking this opportunity to thank this large number of participants, without whom the draft coming to this Chamber would not have been able to obtain a clear-cut and realistic form. So, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, we could start by boasting about this fresh example. But I won't. Why? Because the involvement of citizens in the design of public power policies has become more of a rule, despite a well-established concept, that is nothing unusual. More or less well-founded complaining about the lack, absence or formality of involvement has come to an end, as we may be, with varying success, also to overcome the disease of children, that the pride and pride of the NGO lies in confronting itself with the state apparatus and government and, particularly, with the parties as actually one of the middle parts of the society. This raises the question of whether the concept of the development of civil society, which we discuss in this Chamber every second year, has not come to an unnoticed expiry in the ten years since its birth. Let us also bear in mind that its approval or approval was preceded by several years of preparatory work in the last millennium. It is a highly state-centred document when it is read with a view to civil liberties and people's initiative. It is as if we were talking about a country and civil society as equal partners, but paradoxically it is that it is the country that is creating a people that pleases itself, and not the other way round, as it has always been in history. The NGO is not free if its dependence on the state is so large that it is mental, moral, material. At the same time, the most outstanding examples of the current citizens' initiative are ('Let's do it! ', the Estonian Village Movement Kodukant, the recycling movement, 'Youth School', a large number of voluntary attractive good works initiatives, not to mention the smaller scale, but the tangible initiatives of local communities to organise everyday life, such as the urban community), are indeed citizens' initiatives, not the top-down involvement of the state. If the concept of civil society development and its implementation have contributed to the creation of such visible activity, it has justified its existence. But now it's time to move on. There is also a procedural challenge for this, as the current operational programme of the concept will be exhausted by 2013. Perhaps it would be worth updating the conceptual basis when developing the continuation plan. The focus on the patronizing role of the state and, I stress, the whole issue of overpoliticism is only one of the signs of obsolescence. Secondly, I would like to talk about the fact that the structure, ways and forms of functioning of civil society have changed dramatically and that it needs analysis and reflection. Ideas, information, moods, debates, initiatives, everything that characterises people's spontaneous collective life, distribution and functioning are largely transferred to the space that we call virtual with rooted clichés, but what is really as real as it can be. Social media with their forums and so on have made social communication incredibly dynamic and mobile and, paradoxically, at the same time fragmented and internally intertwined. The emerging, changing and disappearing ad hoc action and one-themed clubs online and on mobile networks have stepped up alongside the clear-cut organisations that have been formalised and entered in the registers. All of this is not and cannot be seen in the concept of the development of civil society, which was conceived in the last millennium. But without taking this change into account, it is not really possible to talk about civil society today and tomorrow at all, much less to develop or make sense of it. A word about civic education. Public power often perceives, perceives professional politicians, and perceives political parties communicating with their constituents in explaining their actions and ideas, encouraging participation and, even at the same time, engaging in the same thing that is being spoken out of each other, simply because of different levels of preparation. Among other bad things, such a thing leads to the inevitable need to replace meaningful talk with primitive populism and, worse, to replace sensible, long-sighted decisions with short-term, seemingly successful pursuits at the expense of the future, because it makes the weakly prepared people more understandable. Civic education outside the formal education system is a crucial thing, but social education in schools in particular requires cardinal changes in terms of curricula, teaching methods and real-life links, so that basic concepts are known and what they mean. We have taken the first steps here. Everything that has been said does not mean that there is nothing important and necessary to be done in the context of the current concept either. For example, the delegation of public services from the general government to the NGOs has not yet achieved this scope, consistency and credibility, which could be of significant help both in the better implementation of qualified active citizenship and in the more rational use of public financial resources. The concept of social entrepreneurship and its legal content will be further explored. In addition, the development of lobbying rules and good practice is important in terms of inclusion and participation, as has already been said here. Happy gatherings! The birth document of the Reform Party was a manifesto of the citizens' state. In the spirit of liberal democracy, it places at the heart of state life an initiativeable, active citizen, not an alms, rear pricking and hand-to-hand-to-hand subjects. That is where we are working, it is only possible for the country and the people to stay and the people to live a quality life. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U126	Thank you very much. The next item is Tõnis Lukas, who is registered for speaking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Just in case, I need three more minutes. To keep your heart calm and calm and not to worry about the time of day all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U128	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests! A highly respected verbatim! As a member of the board of the Friends' Association of the Estonian National Museum, I am very glad that the decision has finally been made that the Estonian National Museum will be built. I do not know whether one of the prerequisites for making this decision was the very active activity of the Friends' Association of the Estonian National Museum. We made statements and have supported the Estonian National Museum in each of our applications of life and tried to bring many people to the Raad, hoping that they would leave there with a happy feeling and write to the local newspapers that the Estonian National Museum is a great place. Perhaps this activity eventually led to the decision that the new home of the Estonian National Museum would come to Raad, but perhaps it was simply an illustrative activity for the peace of heart of our friends, i.e. the Estonian National Museum. I think that one of the reasons for action by societies and associations is, in many respects, self-helping or self-helping and living out their own specific heartache or joy, not just participation in politics and political decision-making. So social activity and civil society are much more complex in a series of statements of their lives, say, much more diverse than we might want to make 'we' and 'civil society' stand out in this debate. I was still asking questions about the fact that when civil society and we, for example, the Riigikogu were spoken here, the word 'they' was used a few times, that if civil society wanted to achieve something, they should do it and we should do it. The opposite of 'they' and 'we' in a small society is actually perverse. I'll tell you a short story. When I was at Bonn University, there was an Italian working at the same institute as me. We've been walking past each other in the hallway for months, and then we've decided we should get to know each other. We agreed to meet the next day. But where? I said the Italians must be gathering in Bonn somewhere, watching football, and so on, that he should invite me there. 'No, I don't know,' said the answer. I told him to ask the embassy where the Italians go together. The next day we met, and he was white in the face. He had, yes, called the embassy. He was not treated very politely there, but was remarked for violating the Embassy's cease-fire: 'This is the kind of small thing you ask from the embassy! How do we know where the Italians go? ' I told him that there was an Estonian embassy right around the corner, I go there to talk to the ambassador, and other Estonians go there sometimes. He was really impressed. In Italian society, Distances are so great! It is a big deal for one family to say hello to a diplomat or to meet a well-known politician for 50 years. There's almost no distance in our society, we're all ours. I explained it to him because we only recently got rid of it, and we've all come from the social movement, the movement of the people. Politicians were also leaders of the people's movement ten years ago, and that is why there is no distance in our society. I think we should keep this situation going. The only way for a small society is to use all its resources. We should not make a distinction between 'we' and 'you', we are all civil society. Society is a whole society, otherwise the word'social' could not be used. There was a little incident here today. 'Who exactly do you represent here? ' was a question. Maybe we're really used to chasing after the paragraph and breaking the hair, that everything has to be in order, and if there is representation, then there has to be the right person to represent. A little further, and we'll get back to the statement of one of the Colorite politicians that let them stick to the grids they come here to talk about politics. This idea of your playground is another wrong thing. I would like to remind you that ten years ago, a party that received a great deal of public support had such a dizziness of success or, in any case, had an appeal to abolish the electoral alliances in local elections, so that only party lists would exist and the party would decide in the 'total vertical' what was going on, also in representative democracy. Luckily, it didn't work out then, and I can't imagine anyone returning to it now. When we say that the people are exercising their power in elections, and we want civil society organisations to participate in this, we should call on people to form electoral alliances in local elections and consider it important that associations come and hit on the list of parties, but if that is not possible for any reason, then let them do their electoral alliances. This real opportunity to create equal opportunities for electoral alliances so that they can stand alongside political parties in elections is, in fact, very important for the development of a comprehensive civil society. I am very pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has shown in its recent actions that it is open. Some times we politicians, or some politicians (I don't want to be part of this group) have a little ridiculous representatives of the societies: we meet with them, but what they have to say, they don't even know the law, they make ridiculous proposals, in fact, it's all already done. Yes, we would like proposals to be presented only in accordance with paragraphs, formalised and simply so that we can put them into law right now. But it's not like that. People come with ideas. I would like to highlight how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked on party law, which actually represents the structuring of democracy and how freely we allow society to participate in the affairs of society. Legal changes were also allowed to be presented to non-governmental organisations in the form of ideas and not in the form of formalised sections. This is a very good method of inclusion, because it is up to us to select something out of these ideas and to prepare the paragraphs. So there can be no difference between 'em' and 'we'. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the NGOs for initiating today's initiative. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the involvement of civil society organisations and the government, who has decided to build the Estonian National Museum!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-20_U130	Thank you so much for Tõnis Lukas! No further speeches have been registered, I am closing the negotiations. Today's session and also the week of the sitting are closed. I wish everyone all the work! See you next week! Closure of the sitting at 12.21 p.m.
