ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! There's 40 comms registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U2	Let's start with the questions. First of all, a question from Yana Toom to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U3	Madam President, thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I looked on the calendar and realized that today we can celebrate a small birthday: exactly 10 months ago, Tallinn City Council adopted a decision to support Russian-speaking upper secondary schools who requested to continue with Russian language of study. The government took a very long break in its decision, but on December 22, it was as if it had made a decision. But this decision has not been published to this day. When we looked into this, it turned out the Justice Department was fixing the text. But he's been fixing it for more than a month and there's been a suspicion that this text will eventually appear in poetry form and music. What is it anyway? Why is it going to last so long? Other decisions taken on the same day have long been published and have therefore entered into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U4	If you had told me before that you had this question on your mind, I suppose I would have prepared an answer. I can confirm what you yourself know: the government made a decision on 22 December, and I do not know that there would have been any problems in making this decision known to the people. I remember very clearly that Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, also made a thorough comment on this decision at a government press conference.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U5	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U6	The point, Prime Minister, is that the decision has not entered into force. What Mr Aaviksoo commented on at the press conference was the political will of the government, not the decision of the government. The draft decision states in black that it will enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. However, this has not happened, which means that the decision for schools is essentially nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U7	I'm sorry to hear that. That's too bad! What else can I say? But it is a joy that practically all Russian-speaking schools have started to move on to Estonian-language education and the process is going quite well. All schools have also asked the government for money to carry out further training among teachers, to acquire relevant educational materials and to do extracurricular work in the Estonian language environment. I am glad that the processes are going smoothly. It is a pity that the formalisation of the decision, if indeed it is as you claim, has been delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U8	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U9	Mr. Ansip! You gave the Delfi portal an interview after this government meeting on 22 December. You said with great certainty that this proportion is 60: 40 widespread elsewhere in the European Union and that the point of the language of instruction is that 60% is in that language. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The term 'language of instruction' is an invention of Estonia. Where did you get the information you distributed through the Delfi portal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U10	It's hard to refer to the source. It's so common knowledge that it's already paradigm. And if one thing, knowing is already paradigm, then there is no need to look for one source, another source, third source, 3333 source, that is a well-known fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U11	I would like to ask the question registered on the ground, Mr Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U12	Thank you, Mr President. I can give you some advice here. Yes, indeed the proportion of 60: 40 is called the language of instruction at the upper secondary school level, where 60% of the curriculum is taught in that language is not available in most European countries. In most European countries, upper secondary school is taught 100% in the national language or in the most common language. There are no upper secondary schools in such a minority language, which is not a national language, in such a small amount anywhere else. But my question to the Prime Minister is this. If, now, this text of a government decision is really awaited in order to sue the government, does the government take the view that the transition, as is not happening, that the transition as a process has been suspended, or is the transition still being completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U13	It is clear that the transition process has long begun, and this transition is much more extensive than the current law provides for. For example, in the case of Russian primary schools, the law does not provide that some subjects must be taught compulsoryly in Estonian, but in fact we cannot find any Russian-language primary schools where some subjects would not be taught entirely voluntarily in Estonian. Everyone has realised that the knowledge of the Estonian language is essential for the people living here. And I am convinced that schools are going ahead with the process that has already started, despite the fact that some municipalities are preventing or putting pressure on them. I am also convinced that children who do not speak Estonian as their mother tongue are all perfectly able to speak the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U14	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U15	Mr Prime Minister! Are you truly personally convinced, and does your life experience confirm that power and compulsion are the best means of teaching the language to people aged 16 years and will produce positive results in social and educational terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U16	I don't think anyone's gonna use force or force here. But I do know that people who speak Estonian while living in Estonia can do much better in life. And once again, I'm taking the point of quoting for you the authoritative newspaper Capital. The mayor of Riga, Nils Ushakovs, claimed that he could confirm, based on Latvian experience, that if teaching goes to 60% in Latvian and 40% in Russian, it would give the labour market a great advantage to those whose native language is Russian. These young people speak Latvian very well, of course they do not have problems with Russian, and they also speak English. The Latvians don't have that good Russian. However, those Russian young people who cannot handle Latvian often have problems with other substances. I fully agree with Mr Ushakovs on this issue. And what is good for Latvia could, in my opinion, be good for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U18	The next question is from my colleague Neeme the Great to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U19	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Minister of the Environment! We have a lot of debate in the country about planning, mining and issuing mining permits. There would certainly be less dispute if the calculation of mineral resources were clear and unambiguous. According to § 10 (6) of the Ground Resources Act, mineral resources are active if the technology and technology used in their extraction ensures compliance with environmental requirements. According to Decree No 29 of the Minister for the Environment of 2005 on the active designation of mineral resources, compliance with environmental protection requirements for the extraction and processing of mineral resources must be demonstrated by practice or by appropriate studies. Last week there was a debate on this topic in the Riigikogu Hall, and therefore I ask: have you been discussing this issue in the ministry in the meantime, and do you still think that it is not important to prove that the environmental protection requirements can be met when we call mineral resources active?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U20	Good questioner! I ask you not to attribute to me claims I have not made. That's one. Secondly, this debate that we started a week ago is, of course, a pleasure to continue, but I think it would be fair and practical if we made it clear from the outset that you actually mean not a general philosophy debate, but, as you also stated last week, we are talking about one particular case, an area of mining interest, which is being debated. And, of course, in the current dispute, the Ministry of the Environment will also communicate its position. However, as regards mineral resources and their accounting and the issue or omission of mining permits, the first step in any mineral resource is that we first want to find out whether it exists in a particular location and if so, what quality and quantity and, theoretically, whether this stock can be extracted. According to the ground legislation, it is first of all that a geological survey is carried out to identify mineral resources. This is the first step. After this information is in place, we can decide, as a second step, whether the reserve will be accounted for. Taking stock of the stock itself does not mean that a mining permit is automatically issued. The issue of a mining permit is a third step in the case of mineral resources and further studies can be carried out on the basis of a specific mining permit as to whether mining at a particular site, in a specific volume and in a specific manner is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U21	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U22	As far as discussions in the Riigikogu Hall are concerned, so far we have remained at the general philosophy level. That was the case in the previous debate, and I believe that this is the case now. You are still of the same opinion that § 10 (6) of the Groundbreaking Act is not relevant, I am simply drawing that conclusion from your own reply. I also understand that you are guided in your position by the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which does not treat mineral resources as an active activity with a significant environmental impact, but rather mineral extraction, geological research, general geological research or the cessation of mineral extraction. Do you not think that if you now adhere to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, you will ignore the ground law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U23	Accounting for mineral resources, classifying them as active and passive, and issuing mining permits can and will only be law-based. And I once again ask me not to attribute claims that I have not said and not to draw arbitrary conclusions. When we are talking about authorising a specific activity, or mining, a specific activity in a specific place can be authorised. The fact that mineral resources are accounted for as active does not mean that there is automatically a right to start mining in any way in that place. This conclusion is not correct, nor does the meaning or provision of the law make any sense of it. Once again: authorisation can be given for specific activities, not for general abstract activities. We can still learn about the desire for specific activities, or mining, only at the moment when this authorisation is being sought. As I'm sure you know very well, there are years between the mineral stock inventory and the mining permit application, sometimes in some places even decades. Where an application has been made, it is necessary to identify the effects of mining in a specific way in a given region. On this basis, a decision can already be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U24	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U25	Thank you, Madam President. I am now going to ask you for the third time, just in case, how do you interpret regulation 29 of the Minister of the Environment since 2005? It states that mineral resources shall be classified as active when rational use of the ground in mining and processing is ensured, environmental protection requirements are met and economic viability is demonstrated by practice or by appropriate research.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U26	I'll come back to my first answer. Once again, the first step is that we first obtain information on whether there is any mineral resource in a particular place and if so, how much and what quality it is. To this end, a geological survey shall be carried out. This is the first step. Step 2: On the basis of this same geological survey, it will be established whether the stock could qualify as an active or passive stock. The final decision will be taken on the basis of a proposal from the Mineral Resources Commission. And the third step is when we start dealing with specific applications for mining permits. This provision, which you have referred to, emphasises the existence of proven practice and compliance with relevant studies, these same relevant geological studies will also assess the existing environmental restrictions. If an application for extraction is received, the prevailing situation must be reassessed. You also know very well that environmental restrictions can change, and the situation in nature can change. This is the reason why it is not possible to state, at the time of the inventory collection, whether or not a mining application can be granted in a specific way at a particular location and on the basis of a specific request. This can be decided in the context of the processing of a specific application in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U27	Now it's a locally registered matter. Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U28	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! There has always been a problem with mining and mineral accounting, especially when interest in mineral resources increases as it is observed in the current period. You are more often exposed to these matters, and it is the Ministry that has to solve these problems, so I ask you: are you planning to change something in the Code? Do you feel that it is necessary to address these matters to Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U29	We're preparing a new version of the law on the ground. In this context, we are also analysing, for example, whether it would be practical, for each deposit, first of all, to draw up a plan for its use, which would specifically provide for the resolution of the deposit as a whole. This would not result in a situation where we have a large number of deposits open at the same time and a bit of mining in each of them. So our interest is very clear: we want to approach mining a little more comprehensively than we have done so far. If we are dealing with one deposit, we would still be exhausting it so that we should not open small mines in very many places across Estonia, but everything would be more concentrated so that mining would be completed in one place in a rather short period of time. We would also like it to be precisely set out what will happen from the mines later, how they will be cleaned up. This analysis of plans for the use of deposits is currently underway, and it is indeed a desire to make this activity more comprehensive, so that it is based on a more coherent approach than it is today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U30	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U31	The next question is from my colleague, Kalev Kallo, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I think winter's coming again, so let's talk about icebreaking. In 2007, the Maritime Administration organised public procurement for the design and construction supervision of a new multipurpose icebreaker. In March 2009, the Maritime Administration and the winning company received a deal that the entire contract would be frozen for a period of 35 months, i.e. until February 2012, i.e. February 2012. In addition, contributions of EUR 1.64 million have been made. In response to an inquiry in this Chamber on 21 November, you said that the agreement had been suspended until December 2015. Later, according to the information provided by the Maritime Administration, there is in fact no written agreement to suspend the agreement until 2015. Until now, the agreement on the design of a new icebreaker has been suspended?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U33	The short answer is that until December 2015. When the Socialists' inquiry was discussed here, there was an agreement with the design company that the contract would be suspended at the request of the State through the Maritime Administration until the end of 2015, and the design company agreed. It is now legally well-formed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U34	Please, Mr Kalla, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U35	Can you tell us under what conditions the company was willing to suspend the contract for a longer period? Will it be more expensive for the Estonian state because it is a change in the terms of the agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U36	At the moment, there are no special conditions. The key question is still facing the country today: how do we proceed with the icebreaker? We have asked for a suspension of the agreement and the company has met us. Of course, we do not want the substantial work done so far on the project and the other preparatory work to go empty and, of course, we do not want to lose the money that the country has paid so far. The key question is how we can find a solution so that we can go out with this icebreaker's procurement and then by building procurement as a definite financing solution. We're working on it right now. Unfortunately, this suspension of the agreement was somewhat inevitable. In 2007, it was imagined that we would be able to finance the construction of this icebreaker normally from the state budget. It is quite unrealistic today, perhaps not in 2007, since no one then predicted the economic crisis. At the moment, I consider it most realistic to find the co-financing of the procurement of this one icebreaker during the future financing period of the European Union, an important element of transport infrastructure. When we speak as a whole about transport corridors passing through Estonia and entering Estonia, we understand that such reliable icebreaking capacity is as important as a functioning port, airport or railway. In this sense, it is an important transport investment and, if we have the will to do so, it will be one of the icebreakers that will actually be obtained through the next European Union funds. The second and third think when we have this one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U37	Please, Mr Kalla, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. To one of my questions, I have already received an answer to this question, which concerns a more distant perspective. But since our Tarmo will be 50 years old next year, and for an icebreaker, that age is enough, maybe you will specify how it is planned to ensure a proper icebreak in the coming years. It will certainly take many years for this European Union money to build its own icebreaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U39	Right now, a good colleague of Keit Pentus promised a warm weather. Of course, he can promise that, but he can do it differently. We have come so far in the government that we have already pre-emptively supplied the Gulf of Finland with another icebreaking capacity in October. Can't rule out it's gonna be necessary. Anyway, in October, we were ready for the same winter as the last two winters. The current weather conditions show that this year it may also be necessary. Why did we go this way? The situation is that if there is real demand for icebreakers, it should be taken into account that icebreakers are already booked in advance. Therefore, I believe that next year we must also go the same way, that we will ensure ourselves quite early secondary capabilities in the Gulf of Finland, just as we have done this year. In previous years, we have begun to deliver when ice is already a reality, and this is quite a risk-related solution. Hopefully, in next year's budget, we can already foresee that another icebreaker next to Tarmo would be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U40	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The ports of Estonia are not just parts of the transport infrastructure, but must also provide us with strategic transit. Can you tell me if the icebreaker is slowing down, will it also lead to a reduction in transit now or in the future? Does this mean income foregone in the transport sector and, if so, to what extent and who is responsible for loss of income?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U42	We've been able to secure the icebreaking capacity so far. I think that's what matters. Whether we guarantee it with the so-called market icebreakers or with our Tarmo or with our new one, that's a technical question. Transit is not directly affected. Ice-cracking capacity in our region is very important in this sense that some part of transit still depends on the stability and credibility of the environment. But Estonia is actually very highly coded in this respect, so our lack of transit, or much more, depends on other circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U44	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! You're very fond of percentages and other numbers. How many children should come out to the street to change their decisions by the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U46	Children do not need to come to the street to force the government to change its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U47	The first point to be clarified by my colleague, Mr Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! From Postimees today, we can read that a number of small rural schools are closing down in South Estonia. This puts those children living on the outskirts and not on the centers in an unequal position. Do you think that economic considerations are more important than the rights of Estonian children to access education?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U49	I believe that economic considerations and human rights should not be in conflict, conflict. The closure of schools is a matter for local governments, and as Prime Minister I do not intend in any way to influence local governments in order to take over their jurisdiction to the central government. The principle of local autonomy is a constitutional principle in Estonia, and I think that the Constitution must be respected and respected by everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U50	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! The Study Allowance and Student Loan Act is intended to amend the fact that the need-based education allowance is no longer included in the income of the family when calculating income support. Do you also intend to take into account the Social Democrats' draft, which provides that child benefit does not go into income when determining income support? In this case, children in families in difficulty should not have to go through two euros a month for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U52	Child poverty is a bit wider than the issue of subsidies. There is, of course, a very strong correlation between unemployment and poverty. The correlation between parental unemployment and child poverty is particularly strong. It is therefore incomprehensible to me to link your constant issue of child poverty to children's benefits or to excluding them from the calculation of income support in some part. In fact, children's poverty can only be combated by creating jobs for their parents. And in the current crisis, it can be said that jobs have been created quite considerably. During the last year and a half, unemployment has decreased almost twice in Estonia, and this means that child poverty has also decreased in the same proportion. This is the main thing that the government has to deal with. But if the Social Democrats come forward with their proposal, it will probably be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U53	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! I have a few questions that have been initiated by my constituents. I have met the children of my constituents, the gymnasts. Some of them are very disturbed by the fact that the transition to Estonian-language education takes place in upper secondary schools. They fear that they will fail and that it will reduce their chances on the labour market. At the same time, my electoral teachers have suggested that this transition should have started in kindergartens. However, one pensioner said that fish often starts to rot in the head, but the gutting begins with the tail. Shouldn't the language reform start in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U55	Well, I guess this language training has started both by heart and by tail. You will probably know that a lot of kindergartens already practice the method of immersion, and students from these kindergartens already speak Estonian well both in word and in letter. It is certainly also necessary to deal with Estonian at upper secondary school level in depth, but in this case it will be possible to compete later on in the labour market. You have, according to you, met many students who are unhappy with the fact that they need to learn the Estonian language. The research results that I know tell me about the fact that compared social groups are the least dissatisfied students who need to learn the Estonian language. As far as I can remember, the people most dissatisfied with it are those whose children and even grandchildren are not affected by this issue. Thus, people who are completely outsiders of this process are most dissatisfied with research.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U56	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your reply, you said that poverty can only be combated in one way or by creating jobs. I fully agree that the more jobs there are, the less poverty there is, the less children suffering from poverty. The more people get paid, the richer the people, the richer the country. You said that many jobs have been created lately. Do you also know the statistics on which sectors the highest number of jobs have come? And how much employment has increased in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U58	There is no reason to mention the sectors separately. I would, however, mention, of course, the manufacturing industry and the service sector, which have created jobs on a large scale. One important feature is that there are many jobs created in the exporting sector, and it is not important what the export sector specifically deals with, it is the export of goods or services. Exports are certainly also an important keyword for job creation. Food exports have also increased very rapidly in recent years. Of all Estonian exports, food exports account for as much as 10%, and it is clear that it has also brought new jobs to the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U59	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! In answer to Mr Pikhof's question, you may have said by accident, you know that he cannot answer you because of our Rules of Procedure, so make your proposals. I now recall that, in fact, the Social Democrats have already proposed to triple child support, and we have also made proposals for our part. Last week, we were discussing coaster support in this hall. Unfortunately, coalition parties do not discuss these matters. I am a relatively new member here, and I do not recall any opposition proposal aimed at alleviating child poverty, which the coalition would have been willing to discuss and accept. Can you name one?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U61	If that is the case, then we need to look again at the proposals. As far as proposals to increase grants are concerned, they are not the best proposals. Using taxpayers' money as grants is not effective. If we already know in advance that, with any outright support, two thirds of the grant will go to those who do not really need it, then we must admit that this is a waste of taxpayers' money. I see no reason why we should share our scarce resources equally to everyone, while it is possible to use taxpayers' money to help those who really need state aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U62	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U63	The next question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, On 19 January, you sent a draft regulation to the coordination circle, which provides for an extension of the State support for the purchase of electric vans. Undoubtedly, environmentally sound thinking is very grateful, but recently, information came to the media that electric cars in Estonia's weather conditions pass only about 70 kilometres in a single charge of 150 kilometres instead of 150 kilometres. Consequently, I ask: how much and whether the project to acquire electric vans has been analysed at all? Are you sure it's worth buying them or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U65	It's a draft regulation. The question really is whether an electric car is worth buying or not. As regards the argument put forward in the press that these passenger cars, which are currently used by social workers in local governments in Estonia, actually use more electricity, it is not correct. It is known that under winter conditions, a petrol - using car takes more petrol, and even in the city, it takes more fuel than on the road, and at different speeds, it takes different amounts of petrol. Similarly, electricity consumption varies. And, of course, if electricity is needed to perform the many functions these cars have, they consume more electricity. We have analysed it, and at least the experts confirm that it is all provided for in the so-called factory manual. For vans, we're just offering new alternatives, that's all. In the case of electric cars and other such new vehicles entering the market, we have such a possibility of support, but so far this support measure for the private sector, private individuals and businesses has not, in our view, caused a very large boom. Be careful. But, of course, we want to offer new opportunities to the market. The Regulation has not yet been adopted. Let's hear the opinions, let's discuss it with the financier, but in the end, I hope that we will make these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U66	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You have stated here that there has not been much interest in passenger cars. Do you have any information on how many private operators have been or might be interested in these vans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U68	By the way, I would first like to point out that we may have a slightly different understanding of the word 'van'. I suggest the van that's actually on the market. It's more like a car like the cake cart used to be in Russian times, something like that. He's not a big cargo van, as we're used to seeing them, like the Mercedes, for example, driving around. He's the kind of thing that used to be the size of a cake cart, almost a passenger car. My current regulation simply does not allow them to be acquired, but they are available on the market and, as far as I know, the Estonian sales agent offers them. How much interest? Once again, today's state of use of private sector support is such that 17 applications have been submitted. Our volume is to fund 500 applications, but our interest has been relatively low. Nine applications have been granted in practice. I think there are several reasons for interest in smallness. Certainly one reason is that there are still few offers on the market. By the way, there will be more of them this year, as many car manufacturers should also enter the Estonian market in this area. Obviously, one important problem is the whole infrastructure of electric cars. The State has concluded the relevant agreements. Everything should be in place visually for the summer and fully operational by October. In June-July, tests begin, then a nationwide infrastructure emerges. Thirdly, we can see that we are currently in the public domain in a certain PR fight. Rather, negative messages are being published about electric cars, which it is understood that there is a certain scepticism in this regard. We still hope to start giving information about the truth. We have also told car manufacturers and car vendors to give people information about the truth. An electric car is not a space missile, it is a car that can be driven from one city to another. A very solid article was in the Võrumaa Official Journal. I suggest you read it, make a commercial.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U69	Please, Minister, the time is already up for you! Ladies and gentlemen, you obviously have a colossal interest in electric cars, but I have one question left from my colleague, Mr Randpere, whom we have not always had time to do. So maybe not all the questioners can get the expected answers on electric cars, but this discussion can be continued. I would now like to ask you a question registered on the ground from my colleague, Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U70	Thank you. Mr. Minister! 'The pie' was said in rural languages about these little vans. But I, too, do not understand the criticism of the press and the questioner, as if a horrible crime had been committed, if people are now offered the opportunity to acquire an electric car with the support of the Estonian Government. Although they take a little more electricity in the winter and mileage is smaller, carbon dioxide emissions are still decreasing. Do you have any idea how much clean air we have every year thanks to electric cars? This is actually the main argument for this action.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U71	Mrs Pentus will certainly carry out extremely thorough monitoring in this area. If these electric cars are a little bit more splintered on our roads, we'll also get some objective analysis of that. The fact is, every car emits carbon dioxide, it has an impact on our health, on the development of various diseases. Of course, the effects on people and society in general will be evident once we have achieved some kind of critical mass. In this respect, we must also be realistic about the initial launch of a pilot project with some visible environmental impact. But in order to achieve a major and significant environmental impact from the point of view of the purity of our air, a certain critical mass is needed. It's a long way to go. And we cannot reject any other means of raising standards for our transport environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U72	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U73	Thank you very much. I, too, have had the opportunity to touch the same Mitsubishi electric car and, oh surprise, not in Estonia at all, but when the Committee on Foreign Affairs made its visit to Asia. I remember we were shown a rather thorough film about the same small electric car tests in Norway, where the climatic and landscape conditions are far tougher than in Estonia, and the Japanese were satisfied with these results. In Estonia, we hear as if we were born a little like a fake. I am asking: is Estonia really an anomaly, or do we have reason to doubt the Norwegian tests?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U74	No, it's not. There is certainly no doubt in this respect that, as our partner, the partner of this part of the project has been trying to deceive Mitsubishi here in some way. Absolutely not! On the contrary, cooperation has been extremely useful, and so has we. But I think we're taking the first steps in this area. The fact that an electric car has many different properties than an internal combustion engine should not surprise us. After all, we've all learned some science at school. This is my colleague from the Reform Party who corrected that the cake cart was called a pie. During the Russian era, for example, there were vulgar and all kinds of other cars, which had no internal heating at all, and in winter they could only drive with a proper coat. The electric car, of course, has a heating system, but it takes more energy to keep the car warm, just like we're used to when we drive an internal combustion engine in the car. That's what we have to consider. The power has to come from somewhere and it's coming from the battery. That's the maximum possible mileage decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U75	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U76	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. The electric cars acquired through the sale of allowances were distributed to local authorities and used by social workers. They do a very grateful job, serving citizens with disabilities, children, elderly people, etc. with electric cars, serving everyone who is in trouble. Don't you think we made a little mistake sharing these electric cars? As this is an environmental saving, these electric cars should have been distributed to the officials of the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board and the State Forest Management Centre in order to deal with environmental sustainability. However, the jeeps that go through the procurements and porridges could have been distributed to social workers who serve the citizens of our country. Why do social workers have to drive in winter with gloves on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U77	Tough question! Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment should help me. You guys are trying to throw us some prank right now! Once again, I would like to congratulate this article in the Võrumaa Official Journal. You've read it sometimes, you're from South Estonia, aren't you? The Võrumaa Official Journal was an excellent article in which a social worker said that he had thrown his old Peugeot into the corner and was driving an electric car. It's great how he drives through the snow, there's no problem at all! True, this internal heating problem in winter is, the car needs more energy to keep the salon warm as if it were in the room. Of course, he stops the car, goes out, and the car gets cold, but the same happens with an internal combustion engine. When a social worker provides his or her service, he or she is at home, it takes half an hour and the car cools down. You come back, the car's cold. But I guess we all drive in the winter and we all know that we still have to be warmly dressed in the car if we don't take a long ride. To tell you the truth, this confrontation is kind of your custom. Now, environmental workers and social workers, you always want to put up battles in the opposition there. The coalition wants us to stick together as a whole Estonian nation, so that we work together. There must be no conflict between environmental workers and social workers!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U78	And now the very last issue registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Of course, in our climate, an electric car could have a little gas oven to heat, but that's what it is. A social worker, even from a common citizen's point of view, is very good if some kind of quota that no one can bear to know what it is, is given, you see, a moving car! But it was delivered free of charge to social workers. This car will drive for three years or five years, whatever it takes, but the batteries will pass. He's got them pretty much the same as a cell phone. And if it's a three- or five-year-old car with batteries out, the batteries will definitely cost more than that tin box itself. My question is, what then? What kind of money buys new batteries that cost quite a lot?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U80	That's what the government has been thinking about. First of all, the issue of batteries would require more folk lighting. These batteries and the cars currently available to social workers can certainly be maintained for at least eight years. In addition, there is a great deal of resources left on the battery, and in fact this is one of the very important tasks that our development fund, which now also has a climate agency, which you have put a lot of sacks in here, is currently solving. They are developing a solution for using batteries that are no longer suitable for the car in the interests of the national economy. And, of course, the issue of new batteries needs to be resolved. Everything that's in use is going to take. So the issue of batteries is an important issue, but in eight years, we'll probably have enough experience. However, a solution must certainly be found for how to then invest in them and what will happen then.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U81	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U82	Our last question is from my colleague, Valdo Randper, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U83	Thank you. Four months and 51 minutes I've had to wait for an opportunity to ask that question and I was about to give up. But last week, on Tuesday, Urve Palo wrote an opinion article in Postimees, where he falsely stamped Taavi Rõivas, my benchmate here in the Riigikogu, as Taavi Rõivas claimed that the Social Democrats wanted to introduce car tax and property tax and other taxes in Estonia. The same thing happened to me four months and 52 minutes ago. In a TV show, when we were talking about Tallinn sales tax and I said that the Social Democrats set it up in Tallinn with the Centre Party, Urve Palo said: "Again you are lying, Valdo! We Social Democrats were not in the Tallinn Coalition when the sales tax was introduced. " I now ask the Prime Minister to serve as an arbitrator, or, as it is fashionable, as an honorary judge, and ask, " Good Andrus, did I lie or did I not lie? '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U84	It took four months and 53 minutes for you to get confirmation from the Prime Minister: no, Valdo, you didn't lie. The Soots were in the coalition with the Central Party in Tallinn City Council and all eight Social Democrats voted in favour of both selling tax and boat tax. I've used quotes to help me. I remember that Foorum show, which, after which, received a great deal of recognition from the debate experts. They said Urve Palo spoke confidently, beautiful red dress, dared to resist everyone, but the fact that he lied was overlooked. It's gone unnoticed! It's sad, but there's a lot of stuff about sales tax. Priit Toobal, who has just arrived in the hall, wrote in the Evening Paper that a tax effect comparable to Tallinn's sales tax would be granted in Estonia by the introduction of progressive income tax. That the sales tax brought harmony and stability to Tallinn! Edgar Savisaar found that sales tax has a positive impact on business. Jaan Sewing claimed that sales tax disciplines. Eiki Nestor, a social democrat, found that sales tax was a safe choice. The car tax was not safe, as residents started registering in the municipalities where there was no car tax. It should be said that the sales tax was not so safe either, as some car sales companies started to formalise transactions outside Tallinn. What is more: not only did they impose sales tax and boat tax, but when the Riigikogu decided to abolish sales tax, they agreed to vote against it in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U85	Please, Mr Randpere, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U86	Thank you. Since it seems to me that the Prime Minister was watching the same show, let's get on with this show. There were other interesting things that happened. Urve Palo said there I have the following quote at hand, among other things: 'Estonia's tax policy has a disorganized structure. We have indirect taxes nearly 10% higher than the average in the European Union, including VAT and all excise duties. " I want to ask, " What does our tax burden look like internationally? Are VAT and all excise duties then 10% higher in international comparison than the average in the European Union, as Urve claims? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U87	Let's say he was wrong. Well, in Estonia, indirect taxes are not 10% higher, and that is, how was that? Each excise duty shall be calculated on the basis VAT and excise duties, right? Well, these are not 10% higher than in the rest of Europe! Ju Urve Palo wanted to talk about the share of direct and indirect taxes in our tax receipts and started talking about indirect tax rates. With regard to VAT, we know that in several countries the VAT rate is 25%, in Hungary it should even be 27% at the beginning of this year. Only seven European Union countries have lower VAT rates than Estonia. In 12 Member States the rate of VAT is higher than in Estonia; in the rest, it is at the same level as we may have 20%. The rate of excise duty on petrol is lower than that of Estonia in only a few EU countries, Bulgaria and Cyprus remind me of it, while in all other EU countries the rate of excise duty is much higher than it is in Estonia. In the case of direct and indirect taxes, it should also be borne in mind that one tax component or one tax type, i.e. property taxes, which the socialists very much like, are virtually unrepresented in Estonia. Therefore, the share of indirect taxes in tax collection in Estonia is indeed greater than if we had the same level of property or car taxes as in many parts of Europe. But I don't miss high real estate taxes or high car taxes! I would not want everyone in Estonia to pay 10000 kroons per month of car tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U88	Please, Mr Randpere, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U89	Thank you. I'll take the last question from the same show as already, then already! Four months and 57 minutes of waiting have been paid. The same Urve Palo stated in this programme that low taxes were speaking at all of despicable low taxes and low-tax countries - were also in Russia and Bulgaria, and asked whether we wanted to develop in this direction. As far as I know, low taxes are also in countries such as the US, South Korea, Australia, Japan, Switzerland, that list could continue. Do you think it is also the case that low taxes are somehow bad and wealth is still collected by countries and systems with a high tax burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U90	No, it is not true, of course, that low taxes are only in those countries where economic growth is not significant and where gross domestic product per capita is modest. I do not understand this incriminating of Urve Palo's low taxes to only two countries. As we know, there are countries in Europe where the tax burden is lower than it is in Estonia, but economically they are quite successful. Switzerland had already been mentioned, Slovakia, Ireland, but in the rest of the world Canada, USA, Chile, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea. There are very many OECD Member States where the overall tax burden is lower than in Estonia, but the standard of living of the people is much higher than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U91	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. As our time is coming to an end, I thank all the questioning members of the Riigikogu and also thank the members of the government and the Prime Minister for giving answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U92	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the third working week session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U93	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U94	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to address to the honourable Minister of Defence, Mr Mart Laar. The content of the inquiry concerns the state of health of our members of the Defence Forces. As we know, the government intends to alleviate the criteria for accepting a person as qualified for military service. On the basis of this, we have seven questions for the Minister, to which we are also awaiting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U95	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will also hand over the report on the work of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act in 2011 and an overview of the application of this law in 2011 in the wind of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. The report deals with the verification of the declarations of economic interests of the members of the Riigikogu as well as the declarations of senior state officials. There is also an overview of the application of anti-corruption law in ministries, constitutional institutions, rural governments, public universities and many other important places. The conclusions and positions of the Special Committee have also been included.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U96	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry which will be forwarded to the addressee if it complies with the Home and Working Procedures Act and the work report of the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu, which the Board of the Riigikogu takes note of. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Psychiatric Assistance Act, the Health Services Organisation Act and the Civil Procedure Code, which was initiated on 23 January, and appointed by the Social Affairs Committee as the lead committee. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 83 delegates have been registered, 18 are missing. Let's go to today's agenda. In the debate on today's fifth item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will make a presentation in addition to the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U97	Our first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let's get to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 113. Please take a stand and vote. 81 votes in favour, no one against, one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U98	The next item is the third reading of § 76 of the Strategic Goods Act initiated by the National Defence Committee and § 9 of the Surveillance Act. Is there a desire to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let's get to the final vote. I vote on § 76 of the Strategic Goods Act initiated by the National Defence Committee and § 9 of the Surveillance Act, bill 148. Please take a stand and vote. 84 parliamentarians voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U99	The third item is the third reading of the draft law 129 on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Is there a desire to open negotiations? Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On this draft, it is positive that we are taking part in the transposition of European Union directives, but unfortunately we cannot vote in favour of it, because there is one big mistake in it. And this error relates to the fact that, unfortunately, our amendment was not supported last time to delete one of the provisions relating to temporary agency work. So that you understand what you are voting for or against here today, I will just make it clear to you, and I hope you don't mind. In fact, our current Employment Contracts Act says that it is assumed that the contract of employment will be concluded for an indefinite period. There are possible exceptions to this, which are reasonable in working life. For example, one cashier stays home to give birth to a child, and for as long as he or she is not present, another person will be recruited to replace him and will be awarded a fixed-term contract until a certain date. Now, with this amendment, which is in this law, employees' rental companies will have the right, essentially, to conclude fixed-term contracts as much as they want. They retain the rule that only a second contract of use with a particular company creates an open-ended employment relationship with that rental company, which in itself is basically stupid. I will now tell you what will happen as a result of this change. Although we were trying to paint a picture of harmonious working relationships here yesterday, this is not the case in real life. There is a well-known trade chain in Estonia where cashiers also work under the otherwise reasonable section of the Employment Contracts Act in such a way that they are employed on probation, are employed four months and five minutes before the end of the working day when the four-month deadline is reached, they are told that the probation period was unsuccessful and they have been dismissed. Now this chain of commerce gets another chance. Indeed, it has no problem creating a company alongside it, which is engaged in hiring labour. It no longer employs employees, but becomes a user company that receives employees through a rental company. And so far, if he had to sign an open-ended contract for the employment of people, then now, thanks to this rental company, he will be able to get away with this obligation. If all those rental companies who put this section in here and who have managed to do this hope to earn something, I think this plan will fail. Large companies simply make their personnel departments into employment companies and the employment contract law provision, which says that we assume that most of these contracts are open-ended contracts, becomes meaningless. Therefore, we could later adopt these directive paragraphs as a separate law, but such a hole is not required by the law of our contract of employment for God, because, unfortunately, in very many cases, working life is not conducted harmoniously and with great mutual understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U101	Thank you very much. There are no more requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's get to the voting procedure. I am voting on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with this draft 129. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 51 votes in favour, 26 against, 1 abstention, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U102	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech to Heljo Pikhof, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am an authorised rapporteur of the Social Affairs Committee here on the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance 86. Between the first and second readings, the Committee on Social Affairs has addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to seek an opinion on whether the restrictions on ownership laid down in the draft and the regulation on the application of restraint measures are proportionate and in accordance with the Constitution. We have also asked about the draft opinion of the Estonian Patients' Association and the Estonian Psychiatric Society. Let me briefly remind you of the content of the draft. The draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance complements the law with a new chapter which provides for a restriction of the person's ownership in the event of psychiatric treatment. Provisions for the implementation of containment measures shall be amended and supplemented. Provisions specifying the national supervision by the Health Board are also included in the Act. The first reading of the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance was completed on 28 September last year. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. As I have already said, the Committee on Social Affairs addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and asked for an opinion on whether the restrictions on ownership laid down in the draft and the regulation on the application of restraint measures are proportionate and in accordance with the Constitution. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the object of the restriction of property rights is to ensure the life and health of the person himself or of other persons and the privacy of persons undergoing treatment, in accordance with § 91 (2) of the Act. In order to achieve this objective, it is justified to prohibit substances and articles presenting a risk to those rights. In order to ensure the life and health of the person or of other persons and the privacy of other persons being treated, the possession and use of substances and articles which, by reason of the person's health, may pose a risk to the benefits referred to above must be prohibited. Life and health as very weighty legal benefits outweigh the temporary barrage of ownership. The privacy of other persons in treatment is also a benefit that healthcare professionals must be able to guarantee. The draft also regulates the procedure, storage, return, transfer, destruction and documentation of prohibited substances or articles. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the breach of ownership contained in § 91 of the Act was proportionate and compatible with the Constitution. The implementation of containment measures is an obstacle to the right of freedom enshrined in § 20 of the Constitution and Article 5 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms give the right to restrict the right of freedom in certain cases. According to Article 5 (1) of the ECHR, persons with mental impairment may be legally detained. Paragraph 20 (5) of the Constitution gives the right to take freedom from mentally ill persons when they are dangerous to themselves or others. The bill states that according to § 14 (1) of the psychiatric assistance act, the health care provider is to apply control measures to the person with mental disorder in the circumstances set out in § 11 (1) of the Act: if the person's mental disorder poses a direct risk of self-harm or violence against other persons and other means of eliminating the threat have not proved sufficient. The use of restraint measures is therefore linked to the provision of essential psychiatric assistance to a person, and the use of restraint measures can be seen as a stronger violation of the right to freedom. The imposition of containment measures is a consequence of § 14 (1) of the Psychiatric Assistance Act if there is a direct risk that a person is harming himself or using violence against other persons. The regulation on the implementation of containment measures is sufficiently detailed in the draft. It is laid down that the restraint measure must be proportionate to the immediate threat posed and that the minimum extent of interference with the rights and freedoms of the person must be minimised and, following the threat, the containment measure shall cease to be implemented without delay. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the regulation on the application of restraint measures was proportionate to the objective to be achieved and was not contrary to the Constitution. The Social Affairs Committee also sent the draft, as has been said, to the Estonian Patients' Association and the Estonian Psychiatric Society for opinion. The Commission discussed the draft opinion at its meeting on 22 November last year. Representatives of the patients' representative society as well as representatives of the Psychiatric Society and the Ministry of Social Affairs were invited to attend the meeting. The proposals of the patients' representative association concerned more precise documentation of the implementation of the patient's restraint measures, clarification of the content of the notification to the Health Board, the obligation of the Health Board to provide an analysis of the implementation and justification of the containment measures on the basis of the data provided, and the obligation of the healthcare provider to develop internal procedures for the implementation of the containment measures. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs presented their views on the proposals. The proposals of the patients' representative association were not supported by the Commission, and this is because all of this is already laid down in a sufficiently precise draft or regulated in implementing acts, while some of the proposals fall outside the scope of this draft. The members of the committee supported the proposal of the Estonian Psychiatric Society to clarify the concept of drug control. The Social Affairs Committee continued the discussion of the draft at its meeting on 16 January, then Ülle Jordan, the chief health specialist of the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated. The Commission decided to make three amendments. Amendment 1 clarifies the concept of drug control, narrows the scope of the measures and clarifies the basis for application. Amendment 2 is a technical specification of the standard. Amendment 3 sets the deadline for the entry into force of the law at 1 September 2012, which will provide sufficient time for the development and adoption of implementing acts and for the parties concerned to examine the amendments. The Committee on Social Affairs made its proposals by consensus. Our wish was for the draft to be submitted for second reading today, 25 January. It is also our proposal to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U104	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments, three of them. The first is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Another proposal is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The third proposal is also from the Committee on Social Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take this fully into account. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 86. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U105	We come to today's fifth item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Before I call on speakers to speak, I would like to remind everyone that this time, in addition to the presentation by the commission, a ministerial report is foreseen for the item on the agenda. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups have the opportunity to submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs during the discussion of this item. I would like to ask for the Chair of the Committee on Culture, President Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U106	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Jaak Aaviksoo! It is my task today to present to you what the Committee on Culture has done between the first and second readings of the University Act, the Act amending the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 12 September last year, after which the draft was thoroughly prepared for the first reading. The first reading took place in plenary on 17 and 22 November last year. By the deadline for submitting amendments, by 6 December, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Riigikogu, submitted their proposals. In addition, proposals came from the Association of Estonian Student Unions, the Estonian University of Entrepreneurship Mainor, EBS, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Council of Rectors and the Student Council of TTÜ. The Committee on Culture prepared the draft for a second reading at eight sessions. All of them were also attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research. On 12 January 2012, the Minister for Education and Research, who presented his views on the proposals received, attended the Commission meeting. The Committee on Culture also decided to table its own amendments following discussions in the Commission before and after the first reading and on the basis of the referrals and proposals submitted to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, The list of amendments that have been distributed to you includes a total of 35 amendments, and you have, of course, also received the text of the second reading of the draft. In addition, you have received a very comprehensive second-reading explanatory memorandum prepared by a good secretariat of the Committee on Culture. On 12 January the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft for the second reading of 89 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 25 January, with a proposal to conclude the second reading. This is the decision we took on the basis of a democratic vote: 6 in favour, 3 against, 1 abstention. Now let me begin to introduce the amendments to you in greater detail. I would point out that the amendments in the explanatory memorandum have been thoroughly broken down and, in order to make it easier to follow, the amendments in the explanatory memorandum are organised by subject, not by current numbering. This form of treatment enables us to better highlight and clarify fairly crystallised arguments. First of all, I will explain the amendments concerning the application and allocation of operating grants for higher education. These are proposals 1, 2, 23, 31 and 32. Proposal No 1 is organisational and explanatory, it was done by the Committee on Culture itself, and I will not explain this further. Proposal No 2 is also a proposal from the Committee on Culture. It provides for changes to the principles of applying for operating grants for private schools. This proposal has been formulated in good cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. The proposal stems from the Commission's use of inclusion and based on the EBS proposal, which pointed out that the draft law does not treat private higher education institutions and public universities on a sufficiently equal and identical basis. According to the amendment, operating grants can now be awarded to a private school for a single curriculum, as well as for a larger number of or all curricula, if agreed. It is important that, when operating grants are granted for the curriculum, students cannot be charged tuition fees but are reimbursed according to general rules. Proposal No 31 is also a proposal from the Committee on Culture. Its content is to complement the points agreed in the result agreement with the criteria for allocating the scholarship fund as well as the exceptions for opening part-time curricula (Article 8 (28) of the draft). I would like to draw your attention to this and point out from the explanatory memorandum precisely that, on the basis of this amendment, curricula may be agreed upon for the allocation of operating grants, where only part-time training can be carried out by the educational institution. In some cases, taking into account the interests of certain target groups, it may be necessary to organise studies in such a way that only part-time learning can be carried out on the basis of the curriculum. This will be agreed between the university and the ministry on a performance agreement. Examples include cases where people continue their education alongside basic work. It is quite common in teacher training, but also in Internal Defence Academy, it complements its professional skills with internal security specialists who work at the same time. So this flexible system is necessary. Proposal No 23 came from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and dealt with the retention of the concept of basic cost. However, as I would like to emphasise this, the draft abandons the public training order as such a mechanism and the procedure for allocating operating grants is based on performance contracts, i.e. on a completely new basis, it did not make sense to retain the concept of basic cost. There was also a question of how a performance contract would still be concluded, who would prepare it. Proposal No 32 of the Social Democratic Party Group, which was in line with the proposal of the Association of Estonian Students' Associations, provided for the obligation to set up a government committee for the negotiation of a performance agreement. The Commission considered that the formation of all committees was the responsibility of the Government. It is up to the executive to decide how he organises his work. Parliament does not dictate to the government whether it must form one commission, two committees or more, but is the responsibility of ministries and the government. It is important to say that in the subtext of the draft, it is the idea that the performance agreements are approved by the Government of the Republic; it cannot be a ministerial matter. I will specifically mention a very important point, which we discussed very thoroughly at first reading. There were fears about what happens to private money when a private person, a natural person or a private company wants to finance the opening and learning of a curriculum at a university. Proposal No 29 explicitly states that legal and natural persons have the right to apply for the opening of study places at a university at the expense of their own resources and that the filling of study places is subject to the provisions of § 132 of this Act. This is what the Reform Party Group and the IRL Group have emphasised. The Commission found by consensus that this must be the case. The point of paragraph 132 is, however, that although a study place is created with the support of a natural person or company's finances, application and "qualification" take place on a general basis. So point 1, you can't buy yourself into a university with money, and point 2, it's also very important that these places are reported in terms of reception conditions, and it never becomes clear later that someone gave us money, and now it's possible to apply again or, let's say, make the list longer. No, it is established in the reception conditions on a general basis. There can't be any nepotism here. Amendments 3 to 6, 19 and 27 concern academic leave. This issue has also been quite active in the Commission. Until the last sitting of the Commission, we looked for a suitable way to solve the problem. Amendment 3 of the Committee on Culture states that a student on academic leave has the right to listen to lectures but not to pass examinations or assessments. So participating in teaching if that's okay. In the original version, there was a rather rigid ban during academic leave, so if you were to grovel a bit, you could say that the student was not allowed to come near the university. The Commission has really made this procedure much more flexible, and now it is allowed to listen to lectures, to participate in internships, etc. As a general rule, the higher education institution must provide the student with opportunities to participate in the study. The prohibition of completing the curriculum on academic leave has been amended, and examinations and calculations are also allowed on an ad hoc basis. These needs we have formulated in such a way that the prohibition on completing the curriculum does not apply to persons with medium, severe or deep disabilities, to parents or guardians who raise children with disabilities or to students who are on academic leave in connection with military service, under three years of age. The Commission also formulated proposal No 19 which did not exist before and which, in my view, is very important. This is an implementing provision which provides that a student who is already on academic leave at the time of the entry into force of the Act is still subject to the rules applicable when he went on academic leave until the end of the academic leave. You don't change the rules in the middle of the game. Next, I will talk about Amendments 11 to 14, 16 and 25 concerning the student's right to study without reimbursement of study costs. These proposals have also been made in good cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and concern this famous curriculum of full-time study of 30 credits and reimbursement of study costs. The starting point for the decisions of the Committee on Culture is that the requirement for reimbursement of study expenses is the right of the institution of higher education, not the obligation, and that, in the case of operating grants, it is possible to provide for exceptions to the language of instruction and the volume of completion of the curriculum in relation to the mission and objectives of the university and to the needs of the state in certain curricula. The volume of the academic year is 60 credits. It is important to note that according to the draft, the semester is half the academic year, i.e. five months. The student must complete at least 30 credits during the first semester of the curriculum in order to be able to study for the next semester without reimbursement. There must be a clear limit as to whether he is studying full-time or part-time; this choice point must be very clear. What's important? The Commission introduced flexible regulation that the calculation is carried out cumulatively over the semesters. Now, as explained above, in contrast to the previous rigid system, more points can be collected in one semester, such as 35 or 40 points, and in the second semester, less. During the first semester, you can collect all the credits you need to complete the curriculum, and the rest of the time you can write a Bachelor's thesis or, I don't know what works yet. It's an opportunity. You will see that the system has certainly become more flexible. I stress once again with regard to the term semester that a more precise definition makes it possible to take into account the number of summer universities, internships and everything else in the spring semester, and so more credits can be collected. It wasn't there before. It is also important that we set out that the reimbursement of study costs must be cost-based (i.e. proposal No 15), which means that the student cannot be charged for two outstanding credits for the whole semester's studies, for example. In the past, the text was not so clear and understandable: if one or two points were missing and the university found that all the study costs had to be reimbursed, then it had to be paid for the whole semester. No, the compensation is now made on a cost-based basis, and must be paid for what is missing. As a mid-term remark, that doesn't mean that if you pay, you don't have to take the exam, you pay and you have to pass the exam. The Ministry of Education and Research supported this proposal of the Committee on Culture. Proposals Nos 17 and 26 refer to the execution of study places. This is a very important change. In fact, we in law lay down the principle of threshold as a general rule. The word 'thresholds' cannot be found there because there is no such term and there is no definition of it, but it is formulated as a general rule. The university is required to matriculate as a student a person who has met the admission requirements established by the university. These requirements may include taking an entrance exam at an institution of higher education with a minimum amount of points, taking into account the grades of upper secondary school, assessing the person's motivation to study according to the curriculum through an interview or test. It's been formulated for a long time, but the principle is at the threshold. It is also important that, in justified cases, a higher education institution may set an upper limit on the number of students admitted or matriculated by filling the places of study on a ranking basis. This is generally the case for educational reasons, because we still cannot accept 200 medical students if there are a limited number of study places in the patho-anatomic laboratory. That's clear. Now I'm getting to the end. As regards amendments 18, 20 and 35 relating to implementation, you will remember that at first reading it was seriously on the agenda whether it was possible to enforce the law from 1 September 2012. Now there's a proposal...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U107	Good waitress! Two extra minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U108	Two minutes, yes, thank you! It is now proposed that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2013. The law regulates the matriculation of students who will be matriculated on 1 September 2013 who will enter the university in 2013/14. in the academic year. This is, according to the Committee on Culture, sufficient time for universities and also students to prepare themselves. It is important that students who have previously been matriculated receive a new study cost reimbursement scheme from 2016/17 onwards. the academic year. The transitional period is therefore three years of study. When a student enters the university on 1 September 2012, he or she will have a full nominal period of time to complete the university. If he doesn't take advantage of this opportunity, he'll learn by the rules that the new law sets. The 50% requirement to complete the curriculum will apply from 2014/15. the academic year, the transitional period is one and a half years. We discussed this in the Commission. The Ministry's proposal was six months. There was also the idea of a year. We left here for a year and a half, so we're kind people. With regard to proposals 21 and 34, the Law on student grants and student loans, the Committee on Culture did not support the proposal of the Social Democratic Party. We considered that the present draft and the new need-based system of study grants could be dealt with separately, but provided that the draft law amending the study grants and student loan law was dealt with in the context of the provisions of this draft. We know that this bill is in the interministerial coordination circle. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U109	Thank you very much. This very important issue can certainly be dealt with in depth when answering questions. You've been asked a lot of questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U110	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I'm not an education specialist, but as an engineer, I don't understand how to deal with it. This law is fully linked to the Education Allowance Act. Why can't we take time off, just as the Centre Party did, wait for the Education Allowance Act to be completed and take these laws constructively, together? Why don't we stop reading today and explain another and another and a third to those people who don't understand one thing or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U111	Thank you. Mr Kaljuvee! I understand your concern that you cannot be a specialist on every issue. I believe that none of us can be a specialist on every issue. However, when discussing draft law 89, the Committee on Culture was repeatedly discussing this at first reading in a large hall, too, that a bill on the need-based system of study grants was needed to work on this draft. It is now there, we can take it in the left hand and in the right hand of the draft we are discussing today and read them together. All members of the Committee on Culture have access to the draft law on study grants, it has been distributed to them separately, and it is, of course, available to everyone else. It is important, which I also emphasised, that since these draft laws really regulate one interrelated area, their entry into force in sync makes sense. But that doesn't bother us from working on this bill today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U112	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is as if this bill should carry a signicant message of 'free higher education', just as the Fatherland and Res Publica Union promised everyone in the elections. In fact, however, students, and many young people at all, have baptized this bill as a bill for paid higher education. Very clear dissatisfaction with this draft has been expressed by the Association of Estonian Student Unions, the Association of Estonian Youth Associations, the Estonian Student Associations and the Council of Rectors. All these organisations agree that higher education needs reforms, but this draft should be further worked on. As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, do you consider it appropriate to interrupt the second reading in order to work closely on the draft in order to minimise the differences? By adopting this bill as a law, we have a very, very strong influence on the future of many young people in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U114	Thank you very much. Of course, all the proposals you are talking about have been on the table in the Committee on Culture. Moreover, we have asked them ourselves, we have turned pro-actively to both rectors and other good academic colleagues to get their assessments. After all, compromises have been made with regard to the calculation of studies, the system of reimbursement of study costs, the regulation of academic leave, the admission threshold and the general rule, and the proposals made by stakeholders have been taken into account. In the opinion of the Committee on Culture, the proposals made by you, the Commission or other organisations are quite crystallised; in my opinion, the selection points are clear. Deferring decision-making, I think, does not make sense, because we do and do have issues that need to be taken forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U115	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U116	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough review. I was in front of the castle with you a while ago, talking to the students. It sounded sad in my opinion that the Committee on Culture had not taken into account any important proposal for the students. Having been discussing this draft from the outset, I dare say that we have taken quite a lot of these proposals into account. Maybe just for the sake of clarity, you're repeating what were the most important things that we took into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U117	Thank you, my good colleague. By way of introduction, I seriously congratulate all my fellow Members in the Committee on Culture, because our discussions have been very professional and constructive and, in my opinion, free from any populism. These have been serious discussions. On some issues, different opinions have been held, but the work has been serious. Please note that from September until the end of November, the general principles and principles of the draft were discussed and stakeholders were involved. From there, the Committee on Culture has discussed amendments at eight meetings. These proposals were all well distributed to the members of the Commission, with justification and early on. It was not the case that a member of the Commission came to a meeting of the Commission and there was an amendment on the table that he would have seen for the first time. Indeed, the four issues raised by the students have been partly taken into account. Firstly, the possibilities of academic leave have become more flexible, the foundations of academic leave have become needs-based, the system is much softer. Secondly, the system of reimbursement of study costs has been made semester-based and cumulative. After all, the threshold is also explicitly stated in the draft general rule, and the need-based system of education grants is currently in operation. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U118	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! 170 euros per month, of which 74 euros is spent on food alone, is the limit below which a person lives in deep poverty. Let me give you an example. If you lived in Narva, you would receive 135 euros of need-based study support and should study in Tartu, what kind of hat trick would you rent an apartment for 135 euros, pay for bus tickets, buy food, clothes, hygiene supplies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't drag me on slippery ice and impose questions that are not related to the subject of this bill. I am talking about the draft that the Commission has prepared for the second reading at eight sittings. You are talking about a need-based system of study grants, which the draft is currently in the interministerial coordination circle. If this bill is well on Parliament's desk, I will answer your question. Lauri Hussar, a journalist for Estonian Radio, asked me the same question. I didn't answer him, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U121	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U122	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm going to expand the question before. You have promised that these drafts will be processed together, but I understand that one bill is still coming. However, these two drafts should at least be implemented together. In our view, too, these drafts form a common whole. Perhaps you will present your understanding of the need-based draft of study grants, because it already exists. Is there a real source of cover for the implementation of this draft, which is usually always missing, or are you really trying to make study grants need-based without additional money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U123	Thank you very much. I have really said that both drafts must be dealt with in one context. If there is a need-based draft law on study grants on our table, we are talking specifically about the individual provisions of this draft. As a representative of the Riigikogu, I do not have the right to start dissecting a bill that is in the government's interministerial coordination circle. There's no point in sharing a bear's skin when a bear is still running around in the woods.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U124	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U125	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good colleague! It would be a good thing if the students who came to Toompea to protest had been as well informed as you or, as we are, of the other proposals that the Commission has taken into account. Did the Commission try to inform the student organisation of these amendments in any way or not? Do you think they would have come to protest or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U126	Thank you. Whether they would have come or not, we will be able to discuss in the Committee on Culture in the next session, because the demonstration is today. It is possible for me, my good colleague, to tell you that the Committee on Culture already addressed all the parties before the first reading, including representative organisations of students and students. That's one. Secondly, in order to speed up the process, after the deadline for submitting amendments had been fixed, we announced that the deadline would be this, and we asked that the proposals should not be put to sleep and sent on time. The proposals came. We have discussed the letters that have come to us from various interest groups at the Commission meeting. All the materials of Commission meetings are available on the Commission's website. The press service of the Riigikogu has made press releases. I personally met with the student representatives in my office when they were handing out papers on a beautiful Monday. So I can say with absolute conviction that the contact has been close and friendly. I guess it's up to everyone in their own emotional thermometer to decide how much word is spoken and how much emotions are won by the practical mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U127	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Perhaps my question is because I am a young member of the Riigikogu, but I have had an idea that the purpose of the law is to serve a specific social group, i.e. every law has a specific target group. When I look at this bill, I realize that its target group is students, so this law has to make life better for the students. Unfortunately, we see that it is the students who are not satisfied with the law. As we can see, they're at the demonstration. I'm sorry if the question is stupid! What or who is the target group of this law? If the target group, or students, is really unhappy with the law, maybe you should stop rushing to adopt this law, you should take time off and discuss it? That is our goal in the Riigikogu: to serve society and the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U129	Thank you very much. The beginning of the question was the typical opinion of a person with experience in working in a private company, and at the end of the question you reached an appropriate opinion by a member of the Riigikogu. This law does not have one or two target groups, it is not a soluble coffee sold to one target group or another. This is the law that Parliament is doing to the entire Estonian society. There is more than one group of stakeholders who have put forward their proposals and whose proposals have been considered. The task of both the Commission and the House is to screen out the sensible common part that Estonian society as a whole needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U130	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U131	Thank you. In discussing this draft...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U132	I'm sorry, I'm interrupting! Eiki Nestor, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U133	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. I looked at the Rules of Procedure, but I could not find which section of the Rules of Procedure the rapporteur would rely on when he started his answer to the question by assessing the questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U134	I believe that the respondent may be able to comment on this by answering some of the following questions. As far as I know, evaluation is not provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. But a number of respondents, including the questioner, have said all sorts of sentences with different emotions from this remote control. So let's continue the questioning, please! Kaia Iva, I'm giving you another chance to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U135	Thank you. There has been a great deal of emphasis on the question of whether our young learners are able to study full-time or if too much is wanted. There is also a great deal of focus on whether it is possible to work in an appropriate part-time manner alongside full-time learning. In committee discussions, different interest groups, students themselves and employers have been a little more flexible when discussing this issue. They have thought that this was not impossible at all. Employers have particularly stressed that they expect universities to be good professionals with a high working capacity who are used to working very seriously. How do you feel about whether these Commission discussions have reached the point that young people today are good and maybe we tend to underestimate them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U136	Thank you very much. This topic of working during our studies was, of course, already before our first reading in a thorough debate. On the basis of the Commission's discussions, I can say that there is certainly no one, including students, underrated. It has turned out from the discussions that work experience, especially if it can be obtained during the studio in its field of study, is commendable. At other times, it really seems that this one position is being overly amplified, and those who think that there is nothing wrong just don't talk. But it is Parliament's job to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U137	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U138	Thank you. I just came from a student demonstration. I myself have been involved twice in the discussions of the Committee on Culture, and I have a specific question. If you ask any student if they support free higher education, they all support it with the same conviction as you defend this bill. You are convinced that this law is very good and necessary. Doesn't the students understand this good law, or can't you explain it to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U139	Thank you, Mr Vakra. In the Committee on Culture, the question is not thus raised as to whether the Chairman of the Committee on Culture can adequately explain the draft law. In answering the question of my colleague, Mr Luige, I made it clear which places student proposals have been taken into account. There's been a lot of talk about it. I dare say that this information has been disseminated with sufficient clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U140	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U141	Thank you. The question concerns, first, the bear who runs around the woods and has not yet been shot and, second, logic. You mentioned that the need-based draft law on education grants is directly linked to the draft that is currently under way today. How could the Committee on Culture discuss these matters? So I'm just going to have the question, logically, that if a is directly dependent on b, it's possible to evaluate a so that we don't know what b is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U142	Thank you very much. We in the Commission have discussed the general foundations of the need-based system of study grants with the Minister for Education and Research; he has introduced them to us. We have also come up with this issue in the Commission, together with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, when discussing proposals. We have this bill now, we can see its logical structure and principles. The bill is in the interministerial coordination circle, but we have it. That's how the context comes together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U143	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Culture! Having heard a lot of evasive questions about what led to the issue, I would like to question the fundamental question: what are some of the most important requests of this bill, which can be answered in a balanced way by listening to all parties throughout the country in the form of the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U145	Thank you very much, colleague. The aim of the draft is to increase the performance of education at higher education level, reduce the sectoral fragmentation of higher education, increase the responsibility of higher education institutions for ensuring the quality of learning, change the basis for funding higher education, etc. This can be read in the explanatory memorandum at first reading of the draft. The key words are: quality, efficiency, reimbursement of academically advanced students' learning costs, i.e. acquisition of higher education at the expense of the taxpayer, avoidance of fragmentation, replacement of the national training order system by performance contracts. All kinds of experts have said that the system needs restructuring. The Estonian higher education system must be put to work in such a way that the graduates are more competitive in the Estonian labour market as well as in the wider, global context.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U146	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U147	Thank you. I understand that, broadly speaking, half the students are currently studying at paid and half of the free study places. In view of the requirements of this law for free study at the study place, it should not be difficult to calculate how many percent of students would study in free places in the future. What percentage would that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U148	Thank you! The Committee on Culture really asked the Ministry of Education and Research to draw up an analysis which the requirement of 30 credits and the new system of reimbursement of study costs could lead to. This analysis is available to everyone; we have also shared it with the press. If you, my colleague, would like to have a closer look at this, the Committee on Culture will, of course, not prohibit it. There are tables there, and the percentages are all well calculated. We can argue whether the analysis is thorough or less thorough, but in any case the initiator's representative has put it together. After all, the starting point of the draft has been that the right to study at a study place paid by the taxpayer is an academically advanced, motivated student. Some concessions have been made here; they have already been discussed several times. It is clear that since the purpose of the draft, as I said in reply to Mr Aidma's question, is to make learning more effective so that the student completes his studies during the nominal period, of course, there are such regulations in here that perhaps not everyone likes. But, as I have said, and as other colleagues have said in reply to the students: they should put themselves in a position that arises in three or four years' time when they are taxpayers and participate in the labour market. They should think about how they're gonna look at this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U149	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, We are discussing the reform of higher education, which is likely to introduce the greatest changes in the higher education landscape in the last 50 to 60 years. Do you have any analysis or maybe you dare to make an assessment of how much the number of universities in the Republic of Estonia or in the Republic of Estonia will decrease and how much the proportion of young people receiving higher education will decrease since the entry into force of these legislative amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U151	Thank you. The Commission has not really discussed how big this reform is, the largest of 50 years or whatever. I will not express my personal opinion on this matter to you. Similarly, it has not turned out in any way from the Commission's discussions that either public higher education schools or private higher education schools would be reduced in Estonia and how much smaller they would be. That is not what we have discussed. What has been seriously debated and it has been clear that the impact of this reform is reflected, among other things, in the fact that unreasonably competing curricula or even specializations, if you wish, will indeed be reduced. If two institutions of higher education are taught the same thing, for example, if sociology is read both at the University of Tartu and at the Estonian University of Life Sciences, then there may be some adjustments within the university itself. So unwarranted competition will certainly be reduced by this change and the number of curricula may change. As far as the number of students is concerned, this will certainly decrease as the number of students entering upper secondary school will also decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U152	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U153	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Looking at the number of amendments, the Commission has worked very hard and worked hard. But, good waitress, what's the main conflict between the bill and the students right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U154	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U155	Thank you very much. I've talked about this four or five times today. These problems are, firstly, the reimbursement of study costs, including the requirement of 30 credits, whether this requirement is too severe or not, secondly, the regulation of academic leave, thirdly, the admission based on thresholds, fourthly, the need-based system of study grants. These are the four topics that students have raised. The proposed solutions are set out in the proposals that are likely to come to the vote soon. So the proposals are quite crystallized.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the current version of the bill, we read that during academic leave, the curriculum may not be completed or passed. As we know, during the procedure for the draft, it was proposed not to change the existing regime. Would you describe how the Commission came to an understanding of what is currently written in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U157	The Commission was based on the fact that the university has teaching, which is like any other job, and there is a holiday, which is like any other holiday, and academic leave should not be a valve for extending and extending the study period. Academic leave is due to the real need to take a vacation. We found that there is a need to pass examinations and calculations during academic leave for the categories of students who are listed here. It is worded in this way in order to ensure that students are treated equally in all universities and that there are no differences between schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U158	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U159	Thank you! Dear waitress, Although students are protesting mainly because they want to do three-quarters of repairs at a free study place, please repeat for clarity how the rights of students with children, especially mothers, are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U160	Thank you very much. Let's start with what I talked about on the subject of academic leave. A parent or guardian of a disabled child or child under three years of age, a person in military service, with medium, severe or deep disability, may take examinations and calculations during academic leave. If you need to raise your children, but you can't get through your studies, then please, this is an opportunity. As for the rights of parents raising a child under seven years of age, I do not have this proposal with me, I speak by memory. The discussion was on whether it would be possible to provide for stricter rules on the reimbursement of learning costs for parents. We found that we protect parents who raise children up to seven years of age. There are other aspects. I can't reproduce everyone here right now. But I dare say that our committee's female family was very strongly out there in the protection of parents and children, so these interests are quite well taken into account here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U161	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U162	I guess my first question was too specific. I believe that the analyses you have discussed include the wishes, hopes and forecasts of the Ministry of Education that students will learn better and improve their success. But I still want to know what the basis for these projections is. This should not be difficult to calculate: if at present half of the students study at a free study place and based on the prerequisites of this bill, how many students have such success that they have the right to study at a free study place? This should be the basis for these discussions. What's the percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U163	Thank you. This has certainly been the case in our debate. Since these discussions have been quite long, I dare not say a percentage by heart, because you can start quoting me afterwards. But I'm willing to go through all the analyses we have and give you the exact number. After all, the principle is that state budget and non-state budget students are lost. Academically advanced, motivated, admitted to university on the basis of the threshold, if he is successful, can study at the expense of the taxpayer. This bill will make access to higher education much better. That is the general principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U164	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U165	Thank you. Honourable performer! You've spoken for a long time and spoken very nicely. It's like it's a very good law, and I don't know what to say about it. You said it wasn't some kind of instant coffee, it was a law made for the whole of society. However, I must repeat the question that has already been asked: if it is a good law for society as a whole, why do we have a better part of this society, students, on the balcony today, and our academic youth, our future on the street with slogans, and not for the first time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U166	Thank you very much, Mr. Lenk. I would not want to slip, so Mr Nestor would again make a point to me in the context of answering Mr Borodich's question. As a former lecturer, sometimes I may be too dozing. I believe that the Committee on Culture has been able to collect, analyse and synthesize proposals from various stakeholders and bring together a reasonable proportion of them. There's no way in life that whoever screams hardest is right. We have many proposals, we have considered them, and we have decided as we propose today. Let me give you an example. In my opinion, the right proposal (which we also supported) at the University of Entrepreneurship, Mainor, was a very correct one. Up to now, one year of employment was required when a private university of applied sciences enrolled in a Master's degree. The Commission lost it. In the same way, you must be able to enter the Master's degree at the University of Tartu after the Bachelor's studies, as in the case of economics studies at the University of Tartu. In the meantime, if a year is to be on the labour market, it is a violation or unequal treatment of the rights of both the potential student and the university of applied sciences. Indeed, there have been a lot of proposals for different nuances, the Commission has worked hard and made a choice between them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U167	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, thank you very much for your thorough presentation and explanations. I would also like to clarify what the new reform of higher education highlights free learning opportunities for disabled people who are able to learn, but because of physical barriers, 30 ECTS cannot keep pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U169	Thank you. The Commission has also noted this problem. During academic leave, a person with a medium, severe or deep disability is allowed to complete a calculation or examination, which is clearly stated. Similarly, the obligation to collect 30 credits applies to a disabled person with a so-called 50% discount. He may collect half the points, i.e. his studies may be half the length of a student who is not disabled. Such life-related changes and proposals-regulations are in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U170	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We have met with a large number of stakeholders in the Commission and, in my opinion, have reached quite good compromises and taken into account various proposals. Why don't you refresh my memory? Am I right in remembering that when we met with the university rectors, we were talking about 30 credits that are important to students, and the rectors thought that this could be a discipline specific nuance in order for students to complete their studies within the nominal period and would benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U172	Thank you very much, my good colleague. You remember correctly, the rectors have put this question this way. I would like to remind you once again that there is a whole range of so-called flexible options for this 30 credits since, if 30 credits are not filled, the university is entitled, not obliged to claim reimbursement of study costs, the collection of credits is cumulative over semesters, the law defines the length of a semester and the system of reimbursement of study costs is 'cost-based', because only those points that have not been collected are paid. This has been discussed in depth and such proposals have been put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U173	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U174	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The academic freedom of decision has been appreciated in European higher education institutions for centuries. I was confused as to why the Commission did not support the proposal that the right of students on academic leave to participate in studies and to complete curricula could be decided by the higher education institutions themselves, as has been the case so far. Why don't you explain more precisely what these real reasons are? You don't trust high schools, you're afraid they might start to abuse their budget, or what exactly is the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U175	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U176	Thank you. There have certainly been such reflections through the Commission's discussions that we trust universities and rectors very much, but it was in the academic holiday debate that it was one aspect that it should be 'cross-universities' in a small Estonian country in order for students to be treated equally, the system would be the same and everyone would understand what we have in place. For it to be not so in one university and another, all the more so because academic mobility is very remarkable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U177	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question is driven by your press release, which you recently sent out, where you spoke well about the quality of higher education. In my opinion, quality and efficiency are often confused. You were doing almost the same thing in front of the students on the bus roof today, but then you improved and said you were still talking about efficiency. The effectiveness is clear. Of course, the number of graduates of nominal-time studies is increasing due to this reform, also because some students are likely to fall out of the university and do not undermine the statistics. But I have a question about quality: what do you think this bill will do to the average grade of students?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U178	Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U179	Thank you! I am certainly not going to dissect press releases; it is not my task today as a rapporteur for the commission. However, I can talk about the issue of quality, which has also been the subject of debate in the Commission. Perhaps I will do so on the subject of 30 credits collection and reimbursement of study expenses. That is why we have foreseen a cumulative calculation per semester, so that it is not important that the fact of passing the exam, the quantity as such, is more flexible, and the student can plan the studies in such a way that if he is able and wise to collect more credits in one semester, the law allows him to do so. This is certainly one concrete measure compared to the original version of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U180	Thank you. I'm just asking for a verbatim. In response to Mr Jaanson's question about the possibilities of students with disabilities, you spoke about the benefits of collecting credits. But I would add that according to this bill, students with disabilities will be able to use their academic leave time differently than students without disabilities. I just wanted to add it for the sake of the verbatim so that the answer would not be incomplete. Does the esteemed waitress agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U181	Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U182	But I said this as the first point, answering Mr Jaanson's question. You're talking about another point that I was talking about, but I was talking about the first point. But thank you very much for your attention. It is so serious that it is not too much to repeat several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U183	Thank you, good waitress. I have so far been of the opinion that the fact that the public declares the legislator a rubber stamp has been a little overstretched. But listening to your answer to the draft law on student benefits, it became a feeling that the coalition had run out of temple paint. If a member of the legislative assembly cannot comment on a draft already orbiting the government, then it really should be asked which one was first, either an egg or a chicken, but I am not asking for it. However, from your answers, I conclude that you are familiar with the content of the draft law on student benefits. In a simplified way, my previous question is this: is the system of education grants intended to be made needs-based without increasing funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U184	Thank you, dear colleague. I will give an overview of the Commission's discussions, and I will do it the way the issues were raised in the Commission. In the case of the need-based system of education grants, we did not get so precise, because this draft is not yet in the debate in Parliament. However, I repeat that the Commission's quite identical understanding is that the context of the need-based system of education grants and the draft we are debating today is the same. If we require students to carry out their studies as effectively as possible, it is clear that they must also be offered buffers or opportunities to actively devote themselves to teaching. It's about money. How much money is there and where it comes from, these are all on the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U185	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U186	Thank you. Good Urmas! From your last reply, I conclude that you actually support the suspension of the second reading of the bill today so that we can really get a holistic picture, the context, as you say, of the arrival of the draft law on study grants in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U187	Thank you. I can refer to the decision of the Committee on Culture, a proposal that says that the second reading of the draft should be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U188	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U189	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin by thanking the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture for the opportunity given to me to perform at second reading. It's not normal, but I think it's important. A good colleague in the previous debate said that planning is the biggest change in the organisation of higher education over the last 60 years. Looks like it was a little overrated, but it really is a change. I am convinced and hopefully you are also convinced that this change is necessary and sensible. Draft 89 is designed to increase fairness by increasing access to higher education free of charge, improving the quality of education and improving the efficiency of the functioning of the higher education system through results-oriented funding. Just a little reminder. We currently have 70,000 students who are able to obtain 10000 higher education diplomas per year. The curricula are four, three and two years old. It follows that it could take an average of three years to reach a diploma, but it would take seven years. If that's not a problem, where are the problems? I believe that the bottlenecks in higher education need to be removed. The fact that these bottlenecks exist and need to be removed has been understood both in this Chamber and in the public. I believe there is a reasonable expectation. The draft offers a solution. We have been asked why it is free higher education when most of the world is moving towards paid and tuition-based higher education. This is increasingly the case in countries where, for a long time since World War II, higher education has been free of charge. Then why are we swimming against the river? Why do we not introduce paid higher education, as much is required in the public? Because our historical experience has proved to us the importance of education for the survival and development of small people: we have moved from Swedish-era folk schools to the real acquisition of farms, from universal literacy to our country and through the Estonian-language university to today's cultural peoples. It's important to the small people. That is why the IRL has set up a slogan for free higher education, and I am pleased that our coalition partners have supported us in this endeavour. I hope that the Social Democrats and the Centre Party will also understand its importance. We know that it is not free of charge in the communist sense, or free of charge for everyone, free of charge in any volume and no matter how long it may be free of charge. Those whose ideal is a Communist paradise should think that communist reality is poverty and a prison camp rather than general well-being. Nor can it be the ideal of a socialist welfare state where rights are not balanced with obligations and all responsibility is passed on to the state and the taxpayer. This is a self-realization approach for a free citizen, where every capable and motivated youth gets the right to study free of charge, while also having the responsibility to commit to studies and to acquire education in time. Full-time part-time students, however, would pay an affordable tuition fee and the courses would compensate for the additional costs incurred by the university. That is the principle. We've been criticised. Universities have found that the reduction in the money received from university survivors is a threat to university survival. Yes, but quality improves and, moreover, the state plans to compensate for the decline in revenue. The public funding of universities will increase according to plans in all the coming years of reform. How many areas in the public sector are there where we can be sure that public funding will increase over the next three years? Very few, if any. Students would like more to be received and their rights and freedoms increased. In a situation where most student wishes have found their way into the draft, they want my better understanding to take full account of all their proposals. But there are other interests. I believe that rights must always be balanced with commitments, and I am convinced that learning is a serious undertaking. Adults should not find it difficult to understand that a full-time week of 40 hours means 40 hours of work and there is no way to get a full salary for 30 hours. During academic leave, students lack responsibilities and then are unbalanced to demand all rights as well. Indeed, the exceptions are reasonable and acceptable, and parental leave and military service are beautifully included in the draft, as are the exceptions for people with disabilities. We agree with the critics: the full-time learning obligation must go hand in hand with the need-based education support. There is one context here, but to think that these two laws should be inseparable like stocking and boot, there is no reason. We have two laws. In all previous times, they have been accepted separately. So, what's up with all of a sudden, having to decide one at a time, with one bang? I don't understand. Today, the draft law on higher education is on the tables of the Riigikogu, while the draft law on education grants is on the coordination circle of the government. I assure you, dear friends, that both laws will be enforced at the same time. That's what I think, that's what the government thinks, that's what the government coalition thinks. I have not met any political groups here in the Riigikogu who would think otherwise. What's the problem? Good friends! The Riigikogu has been discussing the draft 89 since mid-September, i.e. four months. The Committee on Culture has done much and good work and the compromises reached have certainly improved the draft. Some things I agree with, some things I don't, but that's democracy. All stakeholders' wishes have been opposed, but the Commission was not able to take account of all the opposing demands. I would like to thank all the political groups for the discussions in which I was able to participate. These discussions were exclusively constructive. It was more surprising to read the opinion article by my colleague Jaak Allik in today's Postimees. Even knowing Mr Allik's experience as a favourite propaganda and agitator in the ranks of the various parties, it is difficult for me to understand how the proposed reform, which increases the funding of higher education by more than 25% and more than doubles the social benefits for students, can only be reform for the rich. It's genuine propaganda by inciting fears and class hatred, just as Comrade Lenin practiced it. I do not share the nostalgia for the Soviet higher education that was blown up by this article. Our approach is different. [[Laughter.]] Justice is important to us, and that is why we stand for need-based learning grants and free learning. We have an important quality, and that is why we are standing up for results-based funding. We have important efficiency, and that is why we support performance agreements by abandoning the ideology of public training orders, which has created huge debts for universities. Ladies and gentlemen, Students! Unfortunately, I couldn't participate in your meeting all the time, but I was just looking at the red lines on the Internet, which said, "Aaviksoo! How much did you pay for your education? ' I remember it well. I studied full - time for five years, passed the examinations and calculations on time and in accordance with the prescribed procedure, and did not pay the tuition fee. That's what I want for you. To cover living and subsistence expenses, I worked on weekends and nights at the railway station in loading work, but in the summer in chess, and so I did quite well during my studies. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the draft in the form proposed by the Committee on Culture and to decide to conclude the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U190	Dear waitress, good minister! You have questions. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U191	Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for your good words and recognition. But my first question to you is this. As is well known, the programme of the Government Union, or the Coalition Agreement, provides for the launch of a needs-based system of study grants as of 2015. I want to know if your coalition partner has given you a guarantee that this provision of the coalition agreement will be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U192	Indeed, there is a guarantee in the coalition agreement that it will start from 2015, but given the coalition's ability to work, we believe that many coalition clauses can be put into effect much earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U193	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U194	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Soviet era is indeed over and the employer has to pay taxes on the minimum wage. If a young person wants to work part-time, the employer is not interested in recruiting him or her. Youth unemployment is the highest. But I'm gonna ask you the same question as the last waitress. If you were, for example, a student from Saaremaa who comes to Tartu to study, how could you get a living for 135 euros and pay for food, hygiene supplies, bus tickets, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U195	I would like to leave a longer debate there when I come here with this draft that deals with this particular issue. But briefly, this is how I say: no one has ever thought, never in any country, that my education grant is the only source of income and should cover all the costs that a student needs to do or think of. There are, of course, other sources of income: household allowance from parents, working income during the absence of study, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U196	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U197	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You made a promise from this speech chair that the state funding for universities would increase, and that would be the case for several years in a row. I want to clarify that. Do you promise that more funding will compensate for the loss of money from so-called paid places, and if it compensates for where that money comes from? Are you aware, as a result of the coalition's success, that the education budget itself is increasing, or do you need to find this money out of your budget's spare resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U198	Thank you for your question. The Coalition Agreement includes the adoption of a law in 2011. The negotiations also envisaged additional instruments to implement the reform of higher education. I am not going to quote from my head, but these are considerable sums, increasing in three years to an amount of EUR 30 million, which compared to current expenditure, just over EUR 100 million, is still a relatively large amount. As I said, about 25% should be added to the current agreements. As far as paid education is concerned, the cost of paid learning has decreased in recent years, both in the public and private sectors. This is the result of demographic trends. The money for paid learning is shrinking anyway. The further reduction in the reform will be compensated, I dare say, even overcompensated. So there is no justification for universities' fear that their financial situation will deteriorate. It is true that the problem is that the decline is uneven across the scientific community and the internal redistribution mechanisms of universities are likely to be rather painful. But the amount of sum will be won by universities as a whole, I mean all universities as well as every single university. Internal redistribution is the work that universities have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U199	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U200	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. With this Lenin section, you used two concepts: Communist free education and just free education. Are you so kind as to explain the difference between these two concepts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U201	What's more, I was talking about a communist free principle, a socialist free principle and just a reasonable free principle. What's the difference? I'll say it again. I think it's good to remember that. Free is not free in communist terms, i.e. free for everyone, no matter how much free and no matter how long free. Now the socialist principle: this cannot be the ideal of a socialist welfare state where rights are not balanced with obligations and all responsibility is shifted to the state and to the taxpayer. This free system that we offer is for those who perceive the responsibility of the taxpayer to learn well, or in a more understandable language: to learn, to learn, to learn, to learn! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U202	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U203	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! The Centre Party will definitely support free higher education. But can you tell us when this free higher education will become a reality in Estonia? Can you tell me the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U204	I want to hope that those young people who are now thinking about entering higher education and are going there in 2013, perhaps next year, can be sure that if they devote themselves to full-time studies and, as foreseen in this draft, they will go through the university at the same pace as, I think, most of the people in this Chamber have done, it will be free of charge and no sums paid to the university will be involved. As far as living expenses are concerned, of course they exist, and we are also trying to deal with them. When the law comes, we'll discuss it. There are very many compromise points, and there are compromises at the Ministry of Education and Research, and I am certainly personally prepared. So it'll come. But I don't think we can really move on to this principle to each one according to his needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U205	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U206	Thank you. First of all, it is difficult to accept quite one hundred percent of this definition of a socialist welfare state. But my question concerns this draft, which is directly linked to the draft we are debating today, i.e. the need-based draft of study grants. In the Group of the Social Democratic Party, you said that the most effective and reasonable basis for assessing the need for education support is the family tax return. As a result of how income is declared in Estonia, the information used to assess whether or not a student should receive support may be about a year old. Would it not be more reasonable to apply another system, which may be a little more complicated for a country, but would give a more adequate picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U207	The problem you have referred to is indeed there. After all, all data are actually historical. The more operational the data is, the better. But the decision depends on its worth. If the receipt of operational data (I can't tell you how it could happen at the moment) is administratively costly, then the sums to be paid will decrease by this amount. I think a reasonable compromise must be found here. If there are any good ideas, I'm ready to discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U208	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is, of course, a great temptation to argue again whether we saw communism or not, but let's put it aside. You recalled how you studied at the University of Tartu, passed the exams very successfully and worked at the same time. But you probably also got a scholarship that was at least 30 or even 40 rubles at the time, which you could live off pretty well. Finding a job wasn't a problem either. I also studied at the University of Tartu, and I know that the lemonade factory, the meat factory, etc. were always kindly prepared to recruit students, even for a short period of time. Have you negotiated with the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, so that employers would agree to employ students with a low burden, such as a burden of 0.3? At present, a student cannot find a job worthwhile in Estonia if, for example, he or she does not want to sell hamburgers at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U210	For a scholarship of 40 rubles (the increased scholarship was 50 rubles), I say: do you know what a shortage was after some major event? No amount is enough for a young person. I think the public must take a burden here as small as it is socially reasonable. I'm sure young people will continue to work. We know that more than half of young people are currently working, many of them working full - time, but most of them are part - time. I do not really share the fear that if we adopt a law on higher education reform, these jobs will all disappear. They will remain as they are now. I have not had students complain that there are no jobs. Are there any specific proposals? I know there are problems with the student chess, but there are significantly stricter restrictions than for adult students. I do not think that there is a need for separate measures for students, let's say, to create travel attendants or other such jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U211	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Education, I asked the last waitress the same question, but since I left the back door open for him, of course, he used it to escape on the demographic path. I ask you this: looking at the changes to the higher education system under consideration, do you think, as a result of analyses or your assessment, that the number of higher education institutions and young people with higher education will decrease? Let's not talk about demographics, but about the effects of change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U213	The amendments are not intended to reduce the number of these institutions. The number of institutions is already falling, and even if we do not reform, it will decrease for reasons of both demographic and educational quality. At present, the number of students studying in paid places is decreasing, resulting in additional pressure on private higher education institutions. In addition, the recent transition assessments showed a red or yellow card for many educational institutions or curricula. This, too, has reduced their number. Consolidation is taking place in the private sector. In the public sector, I think, despite this reform, some mergers are sensible. So the impact of this reform on the number of institutions is certainly more modest than the impact of objective, already functioning higher education processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U214	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U215	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the Group of the Social Democratic Party, you put forward an interesting idea that you believe that children from lower families are currently studying in paid places, especially in economic terms, because the free places, or places of GNP, are occupied by students coming from elite schools. A few days ago, a table was published in Postimees, and we saw that the seventh place for students admitted to the university was the Värska Gymnasium, which you are about to close. This school was far ahead of the English College of Tallinn. How do you interpret or explain such an interesting social phenomenon?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U216	I also noticed that Värska Gymnasium is in such an honorable position. I guess I also wondered why such an exceptional position is justified in general. With regard to the closure of schools, which you have tried so well again to turn into my personal evil intention, the good ambassadors, no one in this Chamber, in the Ministry of Education or in the Government of the Republic makes decisions concerning schools with a light heart. It is absolutely demagogic to think that these evil intentions are born in the heads of wicked men. Schools are forcing unborn children to close. If we do not understand this and we turn this regrettable fact into a party-political mala, I think we will not be acting responsibly. But from the socio-economic background of young people studying at paid places. I am not able to quote at the moment the study from which I have recorded such conclusions in my memory, but these studies do exist. This is also supported by my personal experience of my acquaintances and relatives, as well as visits to private schools. I have also acknowledged this by looking at the young people who study in paid places at the University of Tartu. I don't think I'm wrong to say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U217	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U218	Thank you. Dear Minister, It seems that the main debate on this issue is concentrated on needs-based support and less high-quality higher education. Money is of interest to everyone, and the bill also talks about money and scholarships related to the quality and progress of teaching. In my opinion, this issue has been completely out of focus without justification. Could you explain in a few words the existence and image of quality scholarships?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U219	Thank you. The current support is guaranteed by the State in terms of both interest and ultimate liability, by private financial institutions. Secondly, there are study grants, which could rather be called results-based scholarships. These scholarships are relatively small, but they are distributed to quite a large proportion of the student population. The amendments are designed to make the administration of student loans more favourable to the taxpayer and thus to support students with savings by improving the system of student grants. The study grants would then be divided into three groups. I will start academically with the most important, or scholarships, indeed with outstanding learning outcomes for young people. We would like to increase the current rate several times so that the scholarship amounts to the average salary. Obviously, the number of beneficiaries of this scholarship will be smaller, but I consider this scholarship to be an important recognition for successful learning. Secondly, there are scholarships that should stimulate young people to choose study programmes that are developed in the public interest, be it teacher training, IT sector or some other specific sector, such as engineering training at Tallinn University of Technology. Thirdly, there are needs-based subsidies. We certainly do not want to make the scholarship system fully social benefits focused. Important emphasis must be placed on academic performance and the public interest in certain specialties must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U220	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I understand that the principle of free education of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union means that those who have money, they receive higher education, and those who do not have money, do not get it. You could have said it very clearly in your'ready' campaign and made it clear, because many of the people who gave you the vote, I think, meant the Social Democratic Principle of Free Higher Education. But my question is this: aren't you afraid that if the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party adopt this bill as a law, educational stratification will deepen in society, in addition to the already rapidly deepening economic stratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U222	I find this logic very difficult to understand, but maybe this reasoning is not based on logic, and my efforts are in vain. How is it possible that if the state creates a completely new instrument of need-based learning allowances I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U223	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U224	Good minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for your presentation, which is more of a speech. You know, it's not like there's a lot of applause in this hall. But my question is based on your probably great knowledge of education in general, including knowledge of the history of education. Our colleagues, the Social Democrats, pointed out here that the last thing that was done was something big and powerful in Estonian education, then probably in Estonian SSR education 60 years ago. Can you tell us what was done so powerful in the Estonian SSR education in 1952, the year before Stalin's death, that the Soviets believe that it is still significant?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U225	I'd probably go to slippery ice with some superficial analogy about what happened after the famous 1950 plenum. But I don't really think that education decisions or higher education decisions born on Estonian soil could somehow be ridiculed or underestimated. At different times, Estonian education has tried to make sensible decisions; they were also made during the Soviet period, as far as possible under the conditions at the time. If my report made it look like I was somehow disparaging it all, it certainly isn't true. I don't want to go any further with these superficial speculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U226	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U227	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! As a start, I too managed to start my education at a time when one of the sources of income was this (as you pointed out, the long nights brought great costs) that in the morning I could afford breakfast for a few pieces of glass. I'm sure there's no way that's possible now. But the question is completely different. The question is, in fact, the same thing that Eiki Nestor asked the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Do you know the percentage of students who will be subject in the context of the so-called free education?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U228	Thank you. This revision is speculative, in the sense that, by extrapolating the current situation, we will not get reasonable results. But one such indication is, which at least I take very seriously. At the University of Tartu there is a requirement for 100% completion of the curriculum in one faculty, medical department. While in the university, half of the young people in free study complete the curriculum in the middle of each semester, in the medical faculty, where the requirement to complete the curriculum is 100%, these students are 80%. This shows that when a serious motivational scheme is in place, people behave differently: they try to get the missing point or the two missing points after all. The other thing is, there's no point in scaring those kids in the balcony. This is about thinking that if one academic point is missed, the tuition fee will have to be 20,000 kroons or 1,200 or 1500 or 2000 euros. This is not the way it is meant, it is not the way it is done, it is not politically possible, no matter what universities might want or want. In fact, it will be the case (this has been confirmed to me by the rectors) that if one point or two points are missed, credit prices must be partially compensated for in proportion to the amount of study that should be repeated. I say very speculatively, do not take this as a final truth, because I cannot allow it in legal terms, so that the estimated volume could be EUR 50..100 for 1 ECTS. It is a large sum in economic terms, but it is not the sum that, if 1 ECTS is missing, it should force someone to leave the university. Last but not least, universities have the right to demand it, but they have no obligation to do so. I think it is wise for these universities to manage and certainly we have smart universities that lay down certain conditions for the student to be released from this obligation. There may also be social considerations here. So let's not be a monster, let's not be scared! Reasonable people are not only present in this Chamber, but also in university management and elsewhere. I think that the implementation of the draft will be rational and will meet our expectations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U229	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U230	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking you basically the same question I asked Mr. Glass before. You are also very much talking about efficiency and that the current regime, where the degree is reached in an average of seven years, is not acceptable that this time is shortened by the new regime. I certainly agree with you here, and I also agree with you on what you said just now, that these few points will essentially stretch out when the system is converted into what it requires. But I also ask you about quality: how does this affect the average grade of students? Is the Ministry of Education able to issue a number based on his own analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U231	It's really hard. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I can tell you that motivation is a very important guarantee of quality. I believe, and I am not alone in this belief, that increasing motivation for learning also improves the quality of teaching or the quality or output of learning outcomes in parallel. Such heightened demands are, I dare say, in most universities in developed countries, most of them in Anglo-American universities. The luxury that we have is that a student admitted free of charge may almost without limit extend his or her studies, is hardly anywhere in the world. This additional effort, in my opinion, is, on the one hand, proportionate and sensible in terms of efficiency and, on the other hand, also beneficial for quality. If a shorter and more concentrated period of time is devoted to studies, it will certainly provide better learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U232	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U233	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I remember when I was still in college, you said there were no free lunches. Today we are talking about free higher education here. If you ask the students, I'm sure they'll all support it. 'Do you support the reform so that higher education is free? " Everyone would answer yes. I have the same question I had for the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Glass. All students should support this reform in their ideas. But I too came a few hours ago from a moody gathering in front of the castle where they protested against it. There's a misunderstanding, and I don't understand that if it's such a good law, either the students don't understand it or you can't explain it enough to them. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U234	There's probably a lot of reasons. First of all, we have 70,000 students. Much more than the students who took part in the demonstration here in front of Toompea Castle were those who were studying at that time. I would also like to protect the interests of these students. Secondly, it seems to me that good students, especially their more socially sensitive and politically active part, are getting a little carried away. I remember the demands of the Estonian Student Union, which were recorded in five points. I dare say that the requirements set out in the three points have been met, on one point, I mean need-based learning grants, it is halfway through. But when it comes to 100% being as much as 75%, I'm not giving in here. I am pleased that the Committee on Culture is not giving in either. Perhaps it would be worth asking the students who were in the library today instead of participating in the demonstration. If you ask them, maybe you'll get a better answer than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U235	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The University Act is not amended every year. In this regard, I have a question: could there be anything else in the draft that you think should definitely be introduced there, but which the Riigikogu commission did not accept, or are you satisfied with everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U237	This bill went out of the Ministry of Education and Research in one form, improvements and improvements were made in the government, and also in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. I don't know anything else I'd like to add. Some compromises were perhaps what I would not have been happy to do, but as I have already said, this has certainly not changed the basic orientation of the draft. I believe that this bill takes account of the problem of fairness, efficiency and quality. That is why I asked you to support this bill and to conclude its second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U238	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering one question, you stressed that students were able to work, and you also recalled your own experience on the railroad. But where should the current student work? We know very well that several tens of thousands of students, higher education graduates are unemployed, and overall unemployment among young people is 37% in Estonia. Shouldn't your ministry be working with the Ministry of Social Affairs here and looking for a solution to the issue of where these young people should work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U240	Our students work everywhere, also in the Riigikogu. I wouldn't mind having more students in the Riigikogu. Working in a professional job, working in a non-specialist job. But I would like to draw your attention to one fact. The United States is considered to be one of the best higher education organisations or, at least, the most high-quality higher education organisations. If you ask the students there where they work or what kind of work they consider acceptable, you will learn that most of the students work for the minimum wage in the university as cleaners, dormitory workers, McDonald's as both waiters and dishwashers, and a lot of low-paid jobs at all. This is acceptable to them both in material terms and in terms of social status. I do not invite students to work for the minimum wage, but I do want to point out that students should understand that there are people in Estonia who work for the minimum wage and also support their families for this money. That is why, in view of the idea that, for taxpayers' money, students should be supported at least by the average wage, as I have sometimes heard, is not quite mature if I dare to use such a word. If you go back to history again, you'll feel like maybe we've got a dizziness from progress. Our lives have improved and, therefore, it seems to us that it has to get faster and better in all groups of people, and with less pay than the average salary, no reasonable person can survive. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U241	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U242	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You're quoting so much Lenin today that I'm just gonna take the verbatim off for interest, and I'm gonna take a closer look. This dizzy place was pretty good. But here's the question. When you answered Rainer Vakra's question, I got the impression that maybe I'm wrong that you think these people are somehow a marginal part of our good students. The students are working and studying like a court and order, but they're here for some reason freezing and as if they don't represent our student body. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U243	I'm sure you're wrong. At the moment, there are many student associations involved. The size of the support team for each specific action may not be so important. In my opinion, there are few such demonstrations in the Estonian country rather than too many. It is all reasonable and necessary to express your thoughts and to make your views heard, visible and known. I didn't think it was necessary to answer the question that was raised on one of the red slogans. But I'm a little reluctant to think that's the vote of 70,000 students. It is the voice of an important part of the students, they stand for their rights and interests, but the interests are not only presented in this form. They have also been presented by other partners, whether universities or employers. Maybe they haven't done it so loudly, but these opinions are a worthy counterweight to students' views. This is also why the Committee on Culture was far from unanimous in supporting the various decisions. Sometimes they were on the student side, but sometimes the arguments of other interest groups were also considered. I certainly do not intend, or it is not my idea in any way to marginalise the people who participated in the demonstration today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U244	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U245	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Would you repeat how much public funding is increasing for universities and tell us where this increase comes from? Will this increase in the budget line of the Ministry of Education in 2013, 2014, etc., or should this money be recovered from the Ministry of Education's own resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U246	Minister, thank you for your speech and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U247	Additional funding outside the current budget has been agreed during the coalition negotiations for higher education reform. I say once again: I cannot say these figures by heart, but the order of magnitude increases, if I remember correctly, in the first year, six million euros and then up to 30 million euros. They should be additional resources. But once again: these figures exist and it is not quite the case that they are taken from the budget and reallocated. Certainly not, although there will probably be a redistribution. But this is what we are talking about when we come to the study grant debate. It is quite clear that if everything goes on small results grants, there must be some shifts in the current proportions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U248	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U249	Thank you. Three more minutes, just in case, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U250	Honourable halls and balconies! The Fatherland and Res Publica Association thank all parties who have participated in the preparation of this draft. We highly appreciate the contribution of all social groups, which have been meaningful, caring, hearty, and have made this draft significantly better. I also think that, in addition to the library, being in the fresh air will undoubtedly have a very good effect on people's development, and I appreciate in the best possible way that students are so active in their demonstrations. Believe me, if I were a student myself, I imagine that I would most likely be among you, and in the accompanying picture you can see well what can go on with all of this. But I'd like to bring together ten happy tidings without shame. Firstly, the possibility of free learning is increasing, as free study places come to universities. Secondly, the academic capacity of universities and the long-term economic capacity will be improved as state budget allocations increase. Thirdly, the state will in future intervene less in university academic decisions and in the organisation of teaching, which will make the opportunities for universities to organise their lives significantly wider and significantly better. Fourthly, while raising a child alongside university studies, we support the view that in the most straightforward and generous way across Europe. I certainly do not agree with the Socialists, the young Social Democrats, which I have heard today that parents and people with special needs do not even need special treatment. On the contrary, they do, and Estonia has already been a direction indicator here. With the draft, we will make these opportunities even better. Fifthly, students with special needs and parents of children with special needs are entitled to a number of special benefits. Sixthly, for the first time in Estonia's history, systematic needs-based study grants are introduced for young people in poorer families. They will enter into force with the entire reform of free higher education. By the way, not in any Member State of the European Union, even if we include all the other countries on European territory, even the richest of them, state subsidies to students do not exceed a quarter of the student's available money. Seventhly, students' studies are strongly encouraged as exchange students at foreign universities, which are important both for the development of young people themselves and for academic development. We also encourage students who have stopped their studies to continue their studies. Eighthly, we do not prohibit or restrict in any way the work of young people during university studies. This is not very common, especially when we look around Europe. Ninthly, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association also deal with the problems of early childhood education and the general education network and the harmonisation of quality, so as to ensure fairer access to higher education. Fairer access to higher education and more graduates in Estonia are the aim of this reform, as well as possible restructuring of early childhood education and the general education network. Tenth, one more word of joy. Some of the letters from the students that have reached my mailbox, i.e. some of the letters from the young Estonian education elite, were really without spelling or grammar errors. And now, dear colleagues, students, employers, families, parents, faculty, rectors, social workers, why should we be against all this? I am not ashamed to vote in favour of continuing the second reading of this draft. On the contrary, for the reasons mentioned above, I am quite proud of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U251	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lauri Luige!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good students and guests! We have been discussing the reform of higher education in the Riigikogu for six months now, which is about a quarter of the time we dealt with the basic school and upper secondary school law. So it's a very long period. I would like to begin by thanking everyone who has been involved in the drafting of this bill, starting with the ministry and colleagues in the coalition, and ending with colleagues from the opposition who have been very constructive in the Commission's discussions. We welcome this; it is good to do substantial work in the Commission. I want to get rid of one more thing at the beginning of the day at the demonstration in front of this house, so it's as if the parties' opinions have not been taken into account. As a member of the Committee on Culture, having been in the process of drafting this bill from the outset, I can assure you that we have actively involved all parties who could possibly be involved, who are involved in higher education. We have examined these amendments and voted, and I dare say that the will of the parties has been heard, including the will of the students. However, it must be taken into account that politicians and the Riigikogu make their decisions on the basis of achieving a more or less satisfactory compromise between all parties involved. We cannot make decisions based on the well-being of only one party. So we're trying to find an optimal path or a golden middleway. I would like to stress that, in addition to the students, we also have universities, rectors, employers, taxpayers who actually pay for this taxpayer's compensated higher education. All of them must be taken into account, and I believe that we have made a pretty good compromise. Let me briefly say again what our aim has been to do with this law. We have three goals. Firstly, to improve the quality of higher education, namely quality. Of course, efficiency as well, but quality is extremely important to us. Secondly, better access to higher education. This is particularly so by reviewing both the scholarship system and the future education grant system, so that no able student is excluded from higher education due to the lack of financial opportunities. Thirdly, more effective output for the labour market. These are the three main objectives that this law pursues. I believe that we will achieve these objectives. The bill is known to provide free or taxpayer-cost higher education for all capable young people, I stress, capable. In my opinion, I always talk with open cards, I have no reason to be ashamed of it, and it should not be offered to everyone for free. In my opinion, free higher education for everyone sounds the same as free bus rides for everyone and their quality can be somewhat comparable. Not everyone can be offered free things at the expense of everyone, still only for the more capable and better, and this bill is what it wants to do. In order to learn at the expense of the taxpayer, the threshold must be exceeded, i.e. there must be a certain level, to get in and study at full time, i.e. to collect 60 European credits per year. This requirement or rulebook applies primarily to Estonian-language curricula in public universities. We have now made such a small addition to the law that private schools can also apply for performance contracts in certain curricula and offer higher education at the expense of the taxpayer, subject to agreement with the state. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U253	I would like to highlight a few other important issues that have gone through the Commission's discussions and which have also caused the most anxiety and public response. The first thing that is extremely important to our party is that private capital is not restricted to higher education. I am pleased that we have made a point in the draft law that both natural and legal persons can finance a study programme at a university with own resources. In fact, they've been able to do it so far, but we'll bring it out separately in the law, stress it. Of course, the competition for this curriculum must be public. The second thing is the collection of 60 European credits. Coming up against the students' wishes, we made it cumulative. You have to have 60 ECTS a year, but you can collect 40 in the first semester, for example, and then you'll have 20 in the second. We made the system more flexible. I would also like to stress that if you are missing 60 credits, for example, 2 you will not pay with full iron, but you will pay for this part that you have not done. I think that is very fair. As far as academic leave is concerned, there too, we met the students' wishes. During academic leave, however, you are entitled to study, but you can take your exams and calculations during regular study. So if the university has room in a lecture hall or lab, you can participate in the study. As for the threshold, we once again met the student party. As a general rule, receptions can be threshold-based. However, if the university can justify that they really need to have a competitive reception, then this can also be done, but generally there is a threshold-based reception. The last point is then the social side, benefits and scholarships. Scholarships are already regulated by the current law; there will be a separate draft law on study grants. Scholarships will be of two kinds. One is a result grant, which depends purely on learning outcomes. The second is a professional scholarship designed to make these specialties, which may not be as popular, but which the country wants to popularize, more attractive to the student. Learning grants are meant to be needs-based for those in real need of help in excess of the current level. I would stress once again that student support is not necessarily the only financial source of which the student must live. Of course, the family must help, of course, the student must try to help himself, after all, he is already a grown man. He can take out student loans, etc. The measures are diverse and must be actively implemented. Of course, each student must also take responsibility for investing in his or her education and in his or her future. Ultimately, it seems to me that we have received a rather good compromise in the form of this draft. I hope that colleagues will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U254	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U255	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the future knee, the shift of the guard! The current government coalition has chosen from among the possible options its own way of securing a general higher education free of tuition in Estonian-language curricula. These options are varied. One option would have been simply to develop the training order by increasing it. Increasing the training order would, unfortunately, cross the vintages with a natural decline, and all those who wish would have free higher education. At the same time, this bill has taken advantage of the opportunity to create some quality leverage through the clarification of the teaching load, and that is how the law has to be adopted. This law is complex. And I would not be a teacher, at least not a proper teacher, if I did not remind dear colleagues that this is not a normal law, the ordinary reform that we are dealing with here. This is not the usual strategic debate. Strategies have been put on the shelf by kilos and each of them has a clause: they are implemented when there is money in the state budget. If you remember, in recent times, only reforms have been supported in this Chamber, where it has been stressed that this will help to save state budget resources, and it is even ashamed to say that it requires some extra money. This reform and the accompanying reform of education grants will not be the case. It is a special way in this respect that we say and demand, quite clearly, that both the drafts that we are discussing and the one that follows require an additional effort from the state budget. We must bear this in mind when the debate on the state budget comes. This law justifies itself in three cases. One was already mentioned: if this is followed by the Education Allowance Act. If this is not the case, young people with a loan load and a good education will flee to earn a better salary abroad in order to pay back their student loan. This is not the solution for the Estonian state. So I guess this new version of student loans and student grants is coming, and without it, we just can't imagine it. Today's law does not include two irreversibly accompanying decisions, which must be taken and without which we cannot properly assess this law. They'll probably do it, but we'll have to make sure they do it. First of all, how is money actually distributed between educational institutions? What is the impact of this distribution of money on our network of higher education institutions, their quality level, the distribution of students and sectors? We don't know that decision right now, I guess it's gonna be made. Secondly, we must be sure that the money promised by the reform will also be in the state budget for the coming years. Because little has been said about what should be the soul of this law. The spirit and spirit of this law should be the continuation and consolidation of high-quality higher education in the Estonian language in the future. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U257	The spirit of the law, which is enraged in any bureaucratic text, tends to disappear. And I say to you that if we in this Chamber do not remember that the necessary sums that universities and other higher education institutions and students are allowed to reform on, on which these reorganisations are made at all, must also be entered in the budget, then this reform will turn against itself. So here, right here in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we are responsible for ensuring that the good idea of this law actually goes to life in confidence. Why am I speaking here? But in order that, once we have warmed up with this bill, we must not get tired of it, we must not forget this issue. Because the next time we start talking about student grants or when we start making budgets, that fever may have gone away, but it shouldn't be like that. And in order not to cool off, the Ministry must support the preparation of all the changes that will come in order for them to work. It's like a triple jump: we are now when we finish this debate on the bill, we make one jump, but the result is measured after three. The second is the Education Allowance Act and, thirdly, the guarantee of the necessary resources from the state budget, and so for several years in a row. Only then will the result be measured as to whether the triple jump was successful or not. Whether the talk we're talking about here today was cheating on wooden eggs or it was actually the right thing to say. It's like cheating on eggs in the woods sometimes on Easter, I didn't mean anything else, so don't startle me. So let's watch! The main thing is that we don't get tired. The responsibility for young people lies in the hands of the Riigikogu and this responsibility lasts for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U258	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U259	Thank you. Let's go from here to here. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U260	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Social Democratic Party fears that the reform of free higher education promised by the IRL, as currently proposed, will make access to education more difficult for the poorer sections of society. We predict that the reform of so-called free higher education will lead to an increase in the student ratio charged for higher education. Mr Ossinovski spoke at first reading about the substantive issues contained in the draft. Unfortunately, almost all of our group's proposals were rejected by the government coalition when voting on the amendments in committee. As we know, the Association of Estonian Student Unions also addressed all members of the Riigikogu with constructive proposals. Unfortunately, the three proposals only supported the threshold. With regard to the fourth proposal for the law to come into force with the amendment of the law on student grants and student loans, we are legally unable to say anything today, because this draft is not in Parliament, as Mr Glass repeatedly emphasised. I repeat once again: we believe that the requirement of 100% completion of the curriculum during the semester will lead to higher education becoming paid not to 50% as it is today, but to most students. In addition, he or she forces students to choose subjects, as the choice must be made only in a given semester from among the subjects offered in the curriculum in order to complete 30 points this semester. In the Minister's recollections that we learned at full time, it has been forgotten that learning at that time guaranteed four references to the minimum wage strip, the dormitory cost almost nothing, and in summer, as has been said here, the student's graduating service was not a problem either. According to the current reform programme, the collection of 29 credits instead of 30 credits means not only the loss of student support, but also the tuition fee. It does not make sense why students on academic leave should not, if possible, take "in advance" calculations and exams. Of course, we understand that, behind all these limitations, there is actually financial accounting and the desire to somehow get the money from students around the corner, however, which is lost in declaring higher education "free of charge." The Social Democratic Party is in favour of free higher education, but it clearly understands that this, as well as increasing the quality of education in higher education, requires a substantial increase in funding for higher education. If the coalition wants to do this, we'll see. In any case, the draft plans to channel an additional EUR 33 million into higher education in 2015, but according to the Ministry of Education itself, this will only compensate for a reduction in the current private funding for higher education, in a situation where public funding for higher education has already decreased by 14% compared to 2008. At present, the lack of funding from the fee-paying ban leads to the pooling of teaching staff, a reduction in student placements, and possibly the closure of curricula, particularly in the humanities and social sciences, where paid education is prevalent. The hope that this will guide young people to learn less popular real and engineering sciences is unlikely to be realised on a massive scale. Those who are able to study at the door of a higher education institution go abroad to study in an interesting field, while those who are less talented actually give up higher education. The Minister has repeatedly stressed that the reform can only be launched with the introduction of needs-based study grants and performance and sector-specific scholarships. This is also required by the Association of Estonian Student Unions. At the moment, however, the government coalition wishes to adopt the draft reform of higher education in a situation where the draft amendment to the Study Allowances Act has not been submitted to the Riigikogu. In addition to everything, the Coalition Agreement provides for the introduction of needs-based study grants from 2015 onwards and, as I heard from the Minister's answer to my question, the coalition partner has not given guarantees to change this point. We know that on 12 January, the Ministry of Education sent a draft to the intergovernmental coordination circle, according to which only students with an average income per family member below the relative poverty threshold would benefit from EUR 135, whereas until 26 years of age, the student is considered to be a single family with their parents. Support may be granted only if the curriculum is 100% completed. With EUR 135, of course, no one will survive, and a young person living below the poverty line will not be able to take home or student loan guarantors anywhere. Hence, he gets caught up in a dead circle, has to go to work and learn full - time. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U261	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U262	The Minister has repeatedly said here that he does not understand how this draft will lead to an increase in social stratification. He is not in the Chamber now, but nevertheless: Minister, let us at least take the 100 points from those who earn less than EUR 280, leave 85 points there, and you say 'class anger would not encourage' that much. It also leads to thinking that only students qualifying for support under the poverty line during the first semester would need an immediate grant of EUR 3.4 million, according to the Ministry's own estimates. However, in the 2012 budget, only 8 million students receive grants. The Minister has said in the Commission that he will be calling for this amount to be doubled by 2013, but in this case, too, there would be only about 20% of students in need-based support. However, what do the remaining 80%, half of whom are currently employed, and not from laziness, have to do, but that is why the curriculum will not be able to complete with 100% load and nominal time? Where, however, do the permitted results and sector-specific scholarships come from? These issues must, of course, be argued in the course of the procedure of the draft amendment to the Education Allowances Act, after which there will be an opportunity to make a final assessment of the effectiveness and social consequences of the proposed reform as a whole. I very much agree with what Mr Lukas has just said here. That's, yeah, triple jump. But for the first time, I hear that triple jumps are measured by each jump, which is our contradiction right now. Important changes in education have a long-term impact and affect the fate of an entire generation. It has therefore been customary to avoid populism on these issues and to seek consensus in the Riigikogu so that there is no risk of reversing these changes when the government changes. Such consensus is not difficult to reach. In this way, the Social Democratic Party will certainly support the objective set out in the Reform Party and the IRL Coalition Agreement to increase the national training order of higher education institutions by 40% and the introduction of a need-based system of study grants, and in this case we would have no reason to talk about socialism and communism from this platform. However, I think that, in the case of the proper law on student benefits, we would also support the principles set out in this draft, because this is undoubtedly a viable way to achieve this objective, in which Mr Lukas and I have no disagreements. And finally. The Minister here touched on my article in today's Postimees. As a spot-on scientist, he should have noticed that the title 'Free Higher Education for the Rich?' " ended with a question mark. That is the subject of the dispute between us and the answer to it, I repeat, the draft law on education grants. After that, the situation can really change and this title can change into another. But this is the case now, because we are of the opinion that without a proper and secure financial cover, the proposed reform of higher education is simply a party-based push-through. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft 89.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U263	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the day, it is good to talk because a lot of important things have been said and it makes no sense to repeat it for a long time. The Centre Party Group recognises that the Ministry, the Committee on Culture and several partners have done a great deal of work in preparing this bill. It is also right that a great deal has been achieved and that consensus points have also been reached. From some interviews around this corner, I've already heard that this has been achieved by the coalition, but it's a bit exaggerated. Indeed, the Commission worked constructively and effectively. None of our group's amendments, which partly reiterated the proposals made by the students and aimed at finding compromises and somewhat softening too steep transitions, were supported. Everything that took place in the Commission during the last period of its work was a move towards strengthening the requirements of the law, not harmonising the law as a whole. Free higher education within the meaning of this law may mean more to be paid than at present. Or maybe we should leave college. Very many may be trapped, not by some inability, not by some tugboats, but also by capable young people. That's what worries me. Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, said in his reply to Deniss Borodich that this law serves the whole of society. I could say that this law is almost perfect, but it is the law of an ideal society. If everything else is ready, it would be a great pleasure for me to work at a university where the demands are clearly set. Unfortunately, there are no laws that can be written for 50 years. If that were the case, the Estonian state would be ready and we could retire to the Riigikogu. The current law must take into account the country in which we are actually in Estonia. We are living in a crisis that unfortunately continues, and there is no light at the end of the tunnel. And that means it's unwise to make such good laws that beat us in another area. There is no point in driving people who are able to learn, forcefully and resolutely into the army of the unemployed and increasing this power. You know, sometimes during a crisis, people talk about how we're gonna retrain the shovels as a computer engineer. We still do this by teaching those who are able to get along at the cost of certain compromises and concessions at university and by not having to develop any re-training system whose fertility and efficiency are enormously lower. Society as a whole must be looked at. Forecasts have been drawn up about what Estonia will look like in 10 to 12 years' time. I want to relate here to my colleague Tõnis Lukas, with one fear or an obsession, that is the demographic question...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U265	... which may become even more negative at the expense of mechanical energy. Are we gonna be a million people in 12 years, or are we gonna be 800,000 people? Each decision affects this forecast scale, whether it shows slightly upwards or slightly downwards. This law, in this harsh form, without these rejected corrections, is shifting the forecast scale downwards. Is that what we want? I enjoyed Tõnis Lukas' speech. He said that all parts of the proposed higher education reform should be required. In this sense, the opposition will be very useful if the opposition forces us to see that the promised things can be done. Speaking of education and science, everyone in this Chamber has always voted in favour of their importance. The budget votes have usually said to be reasonable and make sure that there is no money. We're told to trust that all of this will come. We can trust you, but we've been cheated many times. We hope and demand that it be harmonious and that the reform of higher education is not a two-legged horse, but a four-legged horse, that, in addition to strict obligations, there are also needs-based support systems and certain flexibility. With all this in mind, I have a paper to hand over on behalf of the group, which proposes that the second reading be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U266	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U267	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U268	Ultimately, it seems to me that the current reform of higher education is like Indian rail traffic. In a good case, the parties get in the car, another quarter desperately tries to hold on to the train, who from the window frame, who from the roof railing, and the rest are left behind at all. Both they and we can, of course, tell the government that the system works because point A (B) is reached. You shouldn't talk about quality in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U269	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable students! I promise myself a slightly more free style today, because the Minister of Education has already started it. There has been enough talk here today about all the problems concerning the economic performance of students in the new system. However, less has been said, in my opinion, about the quality of education, which was emphasised by both the Minister of Education and Mr Glass, in his speech and in his words, was also said by my colleague Lauri Luik. The question, then, is where should this quality come from? Quality has two aspects in my understanding. One is the quality of teaching offered by universities and the other is the quality of learning offered by students. As I understand it, according to the initiators of the draft, the offer of universities should improve so that the Ministry can tell the higher education institutions how it is reasonable for them to teach. For example, there is no point in teaching law at TUT because it can be done at the University of Tartu, or because it is not reasonable to teach physics at Tallinn University, because it can be done at TUT. Time will tell whether such a beautiful idea will lead to a harmonious system or whether it will lead to higher operating support in the fight for inter-university throat cutting. When speaking about the quality of student learning, however, two very different concepts have mostly been confused. In addition to the so-called free higher education propaganda, we have heard many times from the Minister of Education that students are lazy, by the way, once the minister said that he thought they could wake up earlier, so they would get more, so it would take the students seven years to reach the degree on average. I understand that this kind of non-formal thinking behind it is that there in Tartu, there in Tartu, there in Tartu, there in Tartu, there in Tartu, there in Tartu, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world, there in the world. Then there's the minister's bright memories of how he got the points with the load, and I think he got the meat spikes at the railroad terminal this weekend. There was an emotional and effective talk in itself, except that it is not about raising the quality of education, but about what the Minister calls effectiveness and what the explanatory memorandum to the draft draft states in a literal way to improve the performance of higher education education. And indeed, the Minister is right that when the current system is in place, the time to obtaining the degree will definitely be shortened. The main question, however, is whether this will increase in quality. Which is better, is higher education obtained in seven years with an average grade of 4 or a nominal-term education with an average grade of 2.5? In the national economy, this person will certainly start to contribute more quickly. But is this the contribution we can make to the global economy's value chain? I do not see how it is possible that the quality of student learning in the new system will not fall. I agree with the Minister that motivation improves results, but motivation does not equal financial sanctions or financial punishment. In the new system, students will make 30 credits, not because their eyes shine, but because otherwise they will have to pay. Therefore, if the current regime encourages us to stretch our studies, the new regime will encourage the collection of points at all costs, which will set back scores, not to mention the quality of knowledge. This is particularly the case with students from less-insured families who have to work to live. According to the Ministry's calculations, we have 20% of student families where the household's income per family member is below the minimum wage. These students can certainly not count on the support of their family, and the EUR 135 education allowance does not save them, of course. Then we have at least another 20% who is slightly better off, which is why they will also lose this EUR 135 support and have to go to work anyway to survive. However, most of them cannot fill 30 European credits on a high-quality basis when working. When you fall into a paid position, many have no choice but to interrupt your studies. On the other hand, a large part may be able to get its points, because for grade E at least my experience says that most students are able to do the research. It's hard to think of as a quality education. Of course, there are people who can also do great in the new system by going to work as well as by completing a proper curriculum. What about the student who is not as good and talented as our Minister for Education and those members of the Committee on Culture who supported the completion of the second reading of the draft? One might say, of course, that this person should not be in the university, but, from the point of view of the state, society and also our economic development, it is still important to create a system where the focus is not only on the top of the pyramid, but also helping the weaker ones to climb a few steps higher. However, the current draft will certainly move away from such a system. Can I have half a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U270	Please, at least one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U271	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. Eiki Nestor, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U272	Thank you, manager. Let me be brief. Honourable Riigikogu! The colour of the minister's performance brought me here to the speaker's desk. To be honest, as a person who was once urged not to step on the Komsomol, it always works as a circus when a former member of the NLKP is pointing the finger at another person in today's political debate. And in this circus, the clown will always be the one pointing the finger. Nor did I understand from this debate where these meeting people should go, either first to the library and then to load the wagons or before loading the wagons and then to the library. I'm not sure I understand that because of my lack of knowledge. I'd like to talk about what I really know. As a member of government associations and also of government, I can tell you that I do not see any substantive impediments to the fact that there is no need-based draft law on education grants alongside this law. Secondly, it is known from the time of this coalition that, when we discussed the law on the abolition of one tax last spring, it was said that a certain part of the public power should be covered and compensated. The bill was to come before us in the fall. That's what the minister thought, that's what the government thought, that's what the government coalition thought, that's what the opposition thought. So, what's the problem? The question is that this bill has not yet reached us. That's it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U273	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. It is now time for us to examine the amendments. There are 35 amendments to the draft law and we will start reviewing them. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. No 2, Artist's Cultural Commission, fully accounted for. No 3, Artist's Cultural Commission, fully accounted for. No 4, author of the Estonian Centre Party faction, the commission has ignored. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U274	Okay. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U275	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U276	I had the same wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U277	Thank you very much. There'll be a double vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent during the vote. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has failed. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U278	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U279	Okay. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6, tabled by Mr Ossinovski. The commission has disregarded the proposal, but according to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 7, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 8 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 9 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U280	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U281	Okay. Let's get ready for the vote again! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Culture, which has been fully taken into account. Please vote! 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 36 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 12 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U282	Thank you. I would like to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U283	Yes, please! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and rejected by the commission. Please vote! 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U284	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U285	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been neglected by the commission. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has failed. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U286	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U287	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U288	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U289	Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and rejected by the commission. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 votes against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. No 23 is from the Social Democratic Party faction, has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U290	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U291	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 23 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and rejected by the commission. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U292	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U293	Good Riigikogu, I shall vote on Amendment 24, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, which has been disregarded by the commission of the executive committee. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 26 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, while the commission has partially taken account of it. Amendment 27 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U294	I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U295	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 27 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and rejected by the commission. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28, tabled by Mr Ossinovski, the commission has rejected the proposal, but the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 29 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 30 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 31 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 32 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U296	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U297	Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 32, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, which has been disregarded by the commission of the executive committee. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33 is from the Committee on Culture and is fully taken into account. Amendment 34 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U298	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U299	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 34th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The last 35th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the commission has taken full account of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments, but the Riigikogu Board has received a statement from both the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party proposing that the second reading of the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws be interrupted. We must vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 89 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U300	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U301	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Law of the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act with number 151. The draft proposes to abolish the pension of the Auditor General, the Chief Auditor General, the Chancellor of Justice and the Deputy Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice during the transitional period. The entitlement to a special pension shall be reserved for those who, at the time of the entry into force of the Act, have completed the period necessary to obtain that pension and for persons who are employed in positions conferring pension rights and who at that time have completed at least 50% of the seniority required to receive the occupational pension. The requirement of seniority already fulfilled by the Auditor General and the Chancellor of Justice is not imposed because the Riigikogu has appointed them on a temporary basis on a proposal from the President of the Republic. Auditors and Chancellors of Justice appointed after the amendment enters into force shall not be entitled to a occupational pension. At the time of retirement, the necessary seniority must be met. The 50% seniority requirement has been established on the basis of the same logic on which the draft Civil Service Act, which is being prepared, is based. Another important amendment proposed by the draft is the indexation of these special pensions to the pension index instead of recalculating the current salary. The initial amount of the pension shall be calculated from the salary of the post in force at the time the pension is granted. Pensions granted to officials of the National Audit Office are also indexed under the previous Act of the National Audit Office. It will also index already granted pensions. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2013. We very much hope that the honourable Riigikogu will process the draft at a reasonable speed, because by 1 January 2013, these changes will also have to be introduced into the Information System of the Social Insurance Board. This requires that the draft be adopted at the latest during the spring session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U302	Thank you very much, Minister. There's at least one question. Colleagues Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U303	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. This is undoubtedly a very welcome initiative to narrow the circle of beneficiaries of special pensions and finally to undertake this reform. At the moment, however, we are seeing before us a draft, where this step is being taken on two institutions. When and for which institutions will we see the next steps? Or is it hoped that next time we will be able to organise the special pension system as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U304	Thank you for your question. The debate on special pensions should be moved to a slightly wider area. As we know, we have four types of pension on more favourable terms: a pension on preferential terms, a pension for years earned, a special pension and... Now there's a spasm of memory. Various schemes have been discussed for special pensions. The timing of these schemes has been proposed to the Social Security Reform Committee set up by the Government of the Republic. This committee is in the final stages of its work, we are planning to go to the Government's office in the coming months. It is then possible to decide at which stages and at which pace you will come to the Riigikogu. It is clear that there are different groups, the most difficult is certainly the regulation of so-called special pensions for power structures. But there are some principles that I hope Parliament will discuss very seriously and which will certainly also be the basis for future pension reforms. One of the fundamental questions is whether the requirement to fill 50% of seniority is acceptable to the Riigikogu, and the other is whether special pensions will be indexed in the future in the same way as old-age pensions or not. If we get these signals from Parliament as soon as possible, it will certainly be much easier to come to this Chamber with the following proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U305	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I now call on Mr Laurson, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U306	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The draft Act amending the Law of the State Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 16 January. The draft law was presented to the Commission by the Minister of Social Affairs. The draft provides for the abolition of the occupational pension of the Auditor General, the Chief Auditor General of the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice and the Deputy Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice during the transitional period. The aim of the draft is to ensure equal treatment of persons in pension schemes and to reduce public expenditure on pension payments. A debate took place in the Commission during which the members of the committee asked questions specific to the draft and received exhaustive answers. The Minister noted that the pension scheme as a whole was different at the time when the special pensions were created and that the public service finances were significantly lower than those available on the free market. Today, these differences in these positions have almost disappeared, and the changed pension scheme allows both officials and constitutional institutions, for example, to stand up for themselves through the second or third pillar of the pension. The Commission considered that the reform of pension schemes for the purposes of equal treatment of persons was necessary and appropriate. Among other things, the idea of indexing the special pensions of members of the Riigikogu was also heard in the committee. The Commission agreed to send the draft by consensus. a on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 25 January. The Commission also proposed that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 10 working days, i.e. amendments must be tabled by 18:00 on 8 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U307	There are no questions for you. Thank you, Mr Laurson. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 151 amendments. tho 8 February at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 151 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U308	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 154 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U309	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I present the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion with income taxes between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates. The Agreement with the United Arab Emirates is traditionally based on the OECD Model Agreement, which has been amended and supplemented by agreement between the parties during the negotiations. Estonia has such an agreement with 49 other countries. The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment, ensure equal treatment of persons and eliminate double taxation, which may result from the combined effect of the laws of two countries. The agreement will help create additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud and establish rules for the exchange of information between tax authorities in two countries. The agreement between Estonia and the United Arab Emirates follows the principles of Estonian tax treaty policy, leaving tax rights as wide as possible to the State of residence of the recipient of the income. The agreement contains an in-depth article on the exchange of information. The exchange of information shall not be limited either to residents of the Contracting Parties or to the taxes under the Contracting Parties. Exchange of information cannot be refused solely because such tax information is not required by the contracting party for its own account or on the grounds that the holder of the information is, for example, a credit institution. In order to eliminate double taxation, Estonia uses the exemption method. This means that if an Estonian resident receives taxed income in the United Arab Emirates, it will no longer be taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U310	There are no questions. Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mr Kallo, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U311	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the above draft on 16 January. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. During the debate, we learned that the aim is to encourage investment, to ensure equal treatment of persons, to eliminate double taxation, which may arise as a result of the interaction between the two countries, and to create additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. We found out it was a 50th or anniversary contract in a row of our kind. The treaty signed by Estonia was the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet and the signature took place in Abu Dhabi on 20 April 2011. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 25 January 2012, to close the first reading and to set the deadline of 3 February at 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U312	Thank you very much. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U313	Thank you, Madam President. The rapporteur from the Commission. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs also mention, or did data come up about, what is the economic relationship between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates at all? For whom can the agreement on the draft before us be useful?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U314	It must be said that this agreement, like the previous similar agreements, did not find a long or deep discussion in the Commission, and this particular issue, i.e. these figures, was not addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U315	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 154 at 3 February at 15. First reading of bill 154 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U316	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft Act 157 on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, the International Sanctions Act and the Amendment of the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U317	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft will make the law on prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing more effective and bring it into line with international standards. The draft will include non-profit organisations and foundations on the list of obliged entities, as well as buyers and wholesalers of precious metals and precious stones. Non-profit organisations and foundations are required to perform due diligence duties if they are paid more than EUR 15000 in cash. It is specified that obliged entities must apply due diligence provisions to the services provided and not to relationships in which the debtor is a customer. The regulation of the contact person of the FIU will be improved to ensure reliable cooperation with the FIU of persons performing the tasks of the contact person. Credit and financial institutions are provided with some simplifications for the application of due diligence measures, such as the possibility of digital identification. The limitation of the ability to dispose of assets suspected of having money laundering or terrorist financing and the transfer of orphan property to state ownership shall be specified. The amendment to the draft law removes, inter alia, the issue of the limitation of assets by the FIU. The provisions governing the independence and competence of the FIU, such as the appointment of the Head of the FIU for a limited period of time, will be supplemented. Estonia has an important role to play in the international anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U318	Thank you very much. My colleague Aivar Sõerd has a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U319	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, The bill abolishes a general rule which, according to the law currently in force, obliges credit and financial institutions to meet in the same place as the client when determining the identity of the client. Such a requirement disappears. However, the definition of financial institutions also includes so-called "credit offices" in this anti-money laundering law. I fully support the principle that transactions and contracts can be made through up-to-date communication and information technology tools. However, for example, when a credit institution issues a loan, it has a duty to identify the customer's solvency and the ability to repay the loan. However, loan offices do not have any rules. Have you considered it right to straighten the rules like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U320	Thank you. I guess we've been considering, and I don't have any particular passion for this regulation. We can still discuss it between readings. With the ID-card, you can do very different things in Estonia, operate, choose and do many other things in the bank. The reason for writing this provision was specific proposals and drawing attention to the fact that there is no need for such obstacles in our country. This is always one of the optimisation tasks of whether such personal contact is not too obstructive, and the purpose of this draft is, of course, the issue of money laundering and terrorism, not consumer protection. But we can discuss it and consider it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U321	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask Mrs Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U322	The Commission discussed the draft on 16 January. In general, it was found that this was a very nice and necessary draft, but some theme-settings did arise. Let me give you a brief overview of these. The first of them was introduced a little by the question here. The subject was the possible promotion of SMS loans by making it easier to borrow using an ID card and by not necessarily identifying a person face-to-face. One of the ministry's comments was that the subject is broader in itself than only SMS loans and that whether today's rules are not too harsh. The proportionality of the measures in this respect was also discussed. The Commission's attention was drawn to this, as the good minister mentioned earlier, that this is still the Money Laundering Act and the possible problem that arises with SMS loans and some other loans is not directly related to money laundering. There was a question of what exactly does the term 'linked payments' mean, i.e. the interrelationship of payments and how to assess it. The Minister's comment was that this is a clever place for evaluation. There was also an interest in controlling the transactions related to the gold bull. In general, control of this should improve when the law enters into force. At the same time, the Ministry added that there was also an amendment to the VAT Act which would allow for a special VAT regime, i.e. a reverse charge. This concerns the reduction of tax fraud related to gold. The Commission unanimously decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 8 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-25_U323	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 157 amendments to the draft law at 6 p.m. on 8 February. First reading of bill 157 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda is exhausted and the sitting is closed. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 5.42 p.m.
