ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Good guests! Let's start the 12th of December briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. 36 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 65 are missing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs. Dear colleagues, since we have a lot of registered questions
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U2	Let's get to the first question. It has been submitted by Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu, meets Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the subject is the leak of state secrets. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U3	Prime Minister! On 7 December this year, it became clear how the Defence Police Office sent a secret report to the ministers and the President indicating possible risks in finding a new head of EVR Cargo. The purpose of the state secret is to ensure the security of the Republic of Estonia by protecting state secrets against disclosure and disclosure to persons without right of access. As Prime Minister, how do you assess the fact that the secret report of the Defence Police Department leaked into the press, and do you know how it happened? And if it is not known, do you consider it necessary to examine how this report became known to the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U4	I have read this article, and it cannot be concluded from what I read that the state secret report has become public. The level of generalisation of the publication is such that there is no reason to claim that information protected by state secrets has been disclosed. The fact that the Defence Police Department prepares reviews for the President and ministers of the Republic is not a state secret. This is part of the day-to-day work of the Defence Police Department. There is also no reason to argue that mere disclosure of the fact of the existence of a document protected by state secrets is in any way regarded as public disclosure of state secrets. It has been discussed in a number of criminal cases whether the fact that one document exists is a secret or not, and it has been concluded that the existence of a document in itself is not a secret. However, as Prime Minister, I would be pleased if the existence or lack of information protected by state secrets could not be dealt with in the press. Anyone with sensitive information in this sense should walk around with it carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U5	Priit Toobal, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U6	Prime Minister! I agree that, literally, the report has not yet really become public, at least so far, but its content, which clearly concerns the so-called personal question of one person, has, after all, become public. But I'm going to ask you a little bit more. How many situations do the Defence Police Department's warnings of a threat to national security not take into account that they are not responding? And who will specifically decide which report of the Defence Police Department should be considered important and taken into account, which is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U7	As I have already said, the preparation of reviews is part of the day-to-day work of the Defence Police Department and, of course, these reviews also refer to various threats. However, I should not be expected to dissect the content of a specific document containing secret information here in front of the cameras. Indeed, state secrets must only protect sensitive information that is provided by law. There can be no more or less secrecy than the law requires. However, if information protected by state secrets has indeed become public, the Defence Police Department and the Public Prosecutor's Office will have to find out all the facts. They are, of course, independent, and as Prime Minister, I have no intention of interfering in the activities of these institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U8	The second point of clarification, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U9	Prime Minister! Now I'm going back to this one case and I'm going to ask you a little more specific. How do you assess the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications did not take into account the report of the Defence Police Department when selecting the Chairman of the Board of EVR Cargo that the content of this report was not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U10	I would even fail to assess whether or not the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications took into account the information in the report. If this information in the report is confidential, we do not have the authority to discuss whether it is taken into account or not in this Chamber. Secondly, the board of directors of the company is elected by the supervisory board and, as far as I know, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts is not a member of the board of directors of that company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U12	Prime Minister! I'd like to be a little more specific. According to you, the fact that there is such a letter is not in itself a state secret. That could be absolutely right. But you could also read in the paper that the content of the report was about a particular person who should not be trusted. This suggests that not only the existence of a letter but also its contents have been leaked. Do you agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U13	I cannot comment on the content of this report, so I cannot confirm or contradict your claim on the leakage of content. However, I can assure you that in the event of a leak of state secrets, the Defence Police Department and the Public Prosecutor's Office must intervene, and neither of them has, as far as I know, found that what was published in the press would be regarded as disclosure of information protected by state secrets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U14	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U15	Prime Minister! It's a fact that the story got out. Both parties openly debated in the press whether anyone is a threat to the state or not. Does the government have an internal investigation plan to prevent such incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U16	If anyone other than these institutions, the Defence Police Department and the Public Prosecutor's Office, should conduct an investigation, it could be a special committee for monitoring the special services of the Riigikogu. It should be the responsibility of this committee to resolve such issues. I admit that the purpose of the review is to ensure that the state is acting in the interests of the state and to provide the decision-makers with the information they need to do so, but it can be concluded from what was published in the press that it was in principle not possible to bring this information to the decision-makers because the decision-makers did not have access to information protected by state secrets. Perhaps in the future the solution could be that access to information protected by state secrets will also be granted to those who appoint the heads of companies that are important to the state. This issue, however, is primarily to be debated by Members.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U17	Thank you. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U18	We go to the second question asked by Kajar Lember, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler, on the subject of administrative reform. Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U19	Good manager! Good minister! At the beginning of this year, national self-government associations, or the best sons and daughters of the field, prepared a very comprehensive letter for you on how to move forward in our administrative arrangements. But the ideas offered by the practitioners didn't suit you or the government coalition. Since the obsession of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union with 'One County One Municipality' is also not suitable for the coalition partner and most of the public, you shook the dust off all the old plans and asked for an opinion on the so-called Kisler Six Back in the autumn. As far as I know, the current result supports the so-called Estonian model of attraction centres. Great! But my question is what happens next. Are we living up to the end of this government in a blissful knowledge, which is as if the best option, but the government, led by the last Prime Minister in office, really does not decide anything to modernise administrative arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U20	There were several axes here. First of all, what was discussed at the conference of the local government leaders at the beginning of the year. One of the proposed options is also included in the six models that are included in my conversion. I have proposed several possible development paths for Estonia. I have also tried to make very quick decisions to move forward with them, but unfortunately these are painful issues that affect many people, and that is why these decisions are a long one. I am pleased that on Monday the Riigikogu's support group for local governments and regional policy also came to the view that a consensual decision must be reached. The decision needs to be reached as early as next year and changes could start to materialise in 2017. It's a very long time. I would point out that we are actually talking about structures that have settled down at least 20 years ago. When I compare the way changes in the local government structure are discussed in Finland, it talks about what will happen in 20 years' time. If we could do enough to talk about what will happen in 2017, this debate would be much more relaxed. However, I believe that an agreement can be reached both in this Chamber and in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U21	The first question to be specified, Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U22	I understand that nothing will happen this year and next year, but it is very likely that the budget for next year will be adopted today. After the second reading, there was EUR 50000, and after today the Ministry of the Interior will probably have EUR 30000 to prepare for the administrative reform. I simply and specifically ask: what will be done for this money in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U23	This proposal was born in the Riigikogu and we are very happy with this separation of funds in the Ministry. If the budget is adopted in the Riigikogu as such, we would like to use this money, for example, to hire a project manager to continue working on the basis of models that have received wider support in the discussions. We are talking about the model of centres of attraction, the model of counties and the model of local governments. I think it is quite a project management work to further develop these models, to involve people in an even wider society in order to achieve a result that would satisfy more or less everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U24	Kajar Lember, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U25	I'd like to continue with the money because there's been a lot of talk about it. We ourselves believe that only a change in administrative arrangements will be limited, a real reform of the state would be needed. I very much agree with that. The budget line of the Ministry of Justice has written as much as EUR 50000 to prepare for the reform of the state. Are you aware of what they're planning to do, and is there any connection to what the Home Office is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U26	Well, in the country, all sorts of things have to be reformed all the time. I am of the opinion that reforms cannot be carried out in all areas at the same time, but that there must still be a sectoral approach. When we are talking about self-government reform, there is a particular reference to a national structure such as rural governments. One thing would be if the size and capacity of our municipalities clearly increased. Let me give you a concrete example. If the development plan for Põlva County has been written that there could be two municipalities in the future, then the current Põlva County Government would certainly have different tasks in this key. It is clear that the reform of the county government will be accompanied by this. However, I certainly do not dare to call the reform of rural governments a state reform. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I look forward, like you, to proposals coming from there, in which areas and what else to reform in relation to the national institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U27	And now two questions registered on the spot. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U28	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. So much has already been said about administrative reform that books can be written about it. And I understand that another five years will come. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, if you do not have the damage of this work all the trouble disappears like water in the sand. The law does not allow the borders to be changed one year before the municipal elections. So maybe we'd better wait for 2015 and then we'll start doing this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U29	Good question! When I made my proposals in 2009, they said where you were in a hurry, let's see what happens in 2013. Today I'm told that, oh-oh-oh, 2013 is almost here, it's not gonna make it, let's try it in the future. Experience has simply taught that in order to change something in 2017, for example, work needs to be done today and to seek consensus today in order to finally implement the changes in 2017. Unfortunately, these processes are very long-term.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U30	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U31	Good minister! You've been Regional Minister for almost five years. When you took office, you promised to take the administrative reform seriously. My question is this: have these reforms really come closer or gone further in this five year period? I think they have come closer because, thanks to our policy, many municipalities simply end up with money. But what do you think: Has it come closer or has it gone further?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U32	I have to admit that when I took office more or less five years ago, I did not put administrative reform as a priority. I talked a lot about promoting voluntary mergers between local governments. However, time has shown that if we do not reform the municipality, most of the working time will be spent dealing with the consequences. The fact that the capacity of many local governments is small here must not, of course, be completely generalised, but this is about many local governments, means that many national structures are also dealing with problems that could have been solved by local decisions at municipal level. That is why I consider changes to be essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U34	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Mailis Reps, corresponding to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aaviksoo. The subject is funding education. Here too, I can allow two on-the-spot questions. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. We have closely followed your interviews and other statements since local governments have received the first control figures from the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, many local governments have received budgets that do not give them an 11% increase in teachers' salaries, not to mention an additional 20%. Some have even lower budgets. You have said that this is how the people have relocated, the number of children has decreased and nothing can be done. Consequently, I have the question: why do you not raise the minimum wage for teachers so much that it actually ensures an increase in teachers' pay, but you are talking about an uncertain percentage, extra money in school, which unfortunately does not get to school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U36	In my opinion, there were three questions. First of all, the argument was that, despite the general increase in wages, more than 11% in some local governments would have to decrease the amount of teachers' salaries according to the initial report of the Ministry of Finance. It is true that if there are still no children at all, it is understandable that maintaining the former number of teachers is neither necessary nor reasonable, and that is why local authorities also need to restructure in the field of education. Many local authorities have done so. It is true that there are also local authorities that have not done so. The latter, in turn, fall into two categories. There are some who have not made any restructuring and have found additional money from their budget, which should be welcomed in all respects, and there are municipalities who have not made any restructuring and have not found any additional money from their budget. There, however, teachers really have to accept wages close to the minimum. Now the question is why we have not raised the minimum wage to more than EUR 715. Of course, you could raise 715%, although I fear there would be no limit to the envy of the rest of the workers. In general, however, the increase in the minimum wage and the average wage should go hand in hand. We certainly want to increase the role and freedom of decision of the head of the school, including by directing the salary to a place where the results of the work are more prominent. This motivation, in my opinion, is also justified in education, including universities, just as it is justified in all other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U37	The first question to be specified, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U38	Good minister! I read your words a few days ago in both major daily newspapers. You made it very clear that, if the average standard of living in local government is rather low, the salaries of teachers are already higher than the average and this creates tensions. As Minister of Education and Science, are you still in favour of rising minimum wage rates, or do you think they could depend on local circumstances? Are they supposed to be, for example, kindergarten teachers' salaries and quite varied?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U39	That is a very fundamental question. My better knowledge had to be given, when the current organisation of financing of general education in Estonia was invented, it was considered essential that the salaries of teachers be at least at a minimum level throughout the country. I know that the wage difference between municipalities and even rural areas is quite large, reaching over 30%. It is true that wages, which are low in some regions, may seem high in other regions. There are local governments in Estonia where teachers have the highest salaries. However, I do not think that such inequalities, which are objectively present, should force us in education policy to take decisions that teachers' salaries should be linked to the average of the local government or county. However, it would hold to the overall national minimum. However, it is worth considering whether local authorities should not be left to the right to decide to some extent about teachers' salaries if these tensions would otherwise become excessive. Local authorities have proposed that their councils also have the right to partially redirect the teachers' salaries to cover other educational costs. This, I think, could be discussed here in the Riigikogu when discussing the basic school and upper secondary school law, considering both sides and objections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U40	Second point, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U41	Good minister! There are certainly more questionable and interesting moments in funding education, but I have a very specific question: to what extent can the Education Support Fund be used next year as a wage for support services? Can the money allocated to the local government for the payroll fund also be paid to logos, school psychologists, special needs teachers and social pedagogues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U42	Since 2010, wage money for teachers and managers is also allowed to be used by the Government of the Republic to pay a fee to support specialists. As a result, teachers' salaries, which amounted to 103% of the national average in 2009, fell to 99% of the national average in 2010 and 95% of the national average in 2011. So the possibility of channelling teachers' salaries to support specialists has actually reduced teachers' incomes compared to the national average. I think we should not continue this process, and I have proposed to bring the provisions of the Government of the Republic regulation into line with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which unambiguously states that the state budget supports the salaries of teachers, directors and teachers. It is true that, according to our indirect estimates, local authorities have also covered the salaries of support specialists from teachers' salaries of at least EUR 3.3 million, as promised by the regulation. I have proposed that, in the near future, this can also be discussed, so that this year's grant fund, which is estimated to be EUR 3.4 million, can also pay the salaries of support specialists in the municipalities where this practice has been introduced in 2013. However, after the procedure of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the Riigikogu, funding would be in full compliance with the law from 2014 onwards. If there is funding for support specialists, then there is also money in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U44	Mr. Minister! You've got some pretty interesting words coming out of your mouth. Local governments that have used teachers' salaries to pay support professionals can also do so next year. Those municipalities that have not used it are likely to lose out. Another interesting point was that even though local authorities find this extra money, it is their job. But I ask you, Mr Minister: how can you not be worried about kindergarten teachers, teachers and support specialists who receive a salary from the local government budget? I wonder where they find the money to raise their wages. There is no such thing in the budgets of local governments. And the size of the local government budget depends primarily on the will of the Government of the Republic. So how do you find money for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U45	Good questioner! The state has the responsibilities of the state and local governments have the responsibilities of the municipality. These obligations are laid down in the law. I believe that, as a rule of law, we should abide by the law. As regards the salaries of educators who are neither teachers nor school leaders, of course, I am concerned about the level of these salaries as well. It is known that the budget will increase by 1.1% next year. The budget of local governments will grow much more in the coming period, with initial estimates of over 4%. I believe that, in the context of such growth, the priorities to which additional funding is allocated must also be decided at the level of local authorities. If, in the future, it is considered necessary for the State to take over the responsibilities of local authorities to a greater extent than the laws currently provide, it is worth discussing. Speaking of support specialists, I've already stopped at it. There have also been proposals to nationalise the entire education system. For such radical steps, I think, there is no need in the Estonian country. Most municipalities are quite successful in carrying out the educational organisation tasks assigned to them, including the payment of wages to their employees in the education sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U46	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U47	Honourable Minister of Education! It is no secret that rural school leaders have started to fight for their schools. For example, in an article by Maarika Niidumaa, Director of the Mõniste School in Võrumaa, one article wrote that if education policy emphasises the importance of maintaining and supporting strong rural schools, the current system of funding for schools is counterproductive. The new curriculum and the Upper Secondary School and Basic School Act impose a number of obligations on the school and schoolteachers, for example, according to the curriculum, more study courses should be used in the education and training work than before, etc. The principal of some schools thinks that the children of the city school are in a privileged position to do so. Lymanda teachers, for example, have also made an address where they believe that the financing model should not be such that large schools can afford teachers better pay and working conditions, etc. Have you received this appeal, and what do you think of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U48	I have received this appeal. In the interest of the truth, it is appropriate to note that the financing of small schools is now much higher than the financing of large schools. At times, it is many times larger. Is it big enough? I think you can discuss it, but there's one pretty fundamental problem that can't be over or over with any trickery. If there are no more children, it is not wise to pay the teachers. At the moment, however, we are also forced to pay wages in local governments to upper secondary school teachers, whose class includes only two children, both standing next to the class manager in the final picture. Solving such problems, as I have repeatedly emphasised, cannot consist in allocating additional money. Rather, reasonable school arrangements help. As regards the applications submitted by small rural schools, I would certainly like to take them into account when developing a new financing model. This financing model, on the basis of which funds are currently allocated to the schools of local governments, is in many respects the cause of these problems and also of the dissatisfaction that you referred to here. I believe that we have a duty to maintain primary schools in particular. If you look around comprehensive schools a little more attentively, you can see that level I and level II education can be obtained anywhere in Estonia at a distance from home that makes perfect sense in terms of the age of children. However, when it comes to secondary education and higher education, it is neither possible nor reasonable to ensure that it is provided in every local government. It is wise to save these costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U49	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U50	Let us move to the fourth question posed by Riigikogu member Jaak Allik. The subject is education costs allocated to local governments. Reply by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U51	Minister, thank you very much. As we know, in the 2013 budget, the amount to support the educational expenditure of local authorities has been increased by only 0.17%. The Ministry promises an increase of 11%. In your article, published in Postimees the day before yesterday, you say that the grants for teachers' salaries have been increased from 143 million to 160 million, and that 12.4 million has been committed by the state to the past. From this, it can be concluded that the difference of 4.6 million must be borne by the municipalities. It's like it's clear. Unfortunately, according to Article 3 of Regulation No 32 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 5 April 2012, 167 million are foreseen for the remuneration and further training of teachers, school leaders and support specialists in 2013. We take away 3% for further training and 3.3 million for support specialists, as you have just said, there are 159.1 million, not 143 million, as you say. How would you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U52	Good questioner! It really has to be explained, because it's probably hard for you to understand. But just like you read the bill, I'm trying to do it. First of all, the 2012 Order of the Government of the Republic concerns the distribution of funds in 2012 and does not say a single syllable for 2013. The total amount of the Education Support Fund in 2012 was EUR 200.8 million. This zero decimal percentage increase, which you are talking about, is formally correct: the amount of education allowance for local governments in 2013 is 200.9 million euros. However, as has already been said, the commitments made in total to the Ministry of Education's budget amount to EUR 12.4 million. Thus, the total increase is EUR 12,5 million, or more than 6%. As regards the funding of teachers' salaries, the teacher's wage subsidy, which was EUR 149.8 million this year, will increase to EUR 160 million next year, with EUR 5,7 million from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research to cover the costs of private schools and established public schools that have been or have been funded by local authorities. So, in total, there is an additional EUR 15.9 million in this sector, which, as has already been said, is more than 11% of education money. Thus, under comparable conditions, the increase is from 143 million to 160 million, as I have mentioned in my articles.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U53	Question number one, Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U54	Okay, well, I didn't get it right now, but I guess we can keep dealing with these numbers. I have the following question. In a year and a half, you have repeatedly talked and written about the fact that education support for local governments sometimes does not reach schools. You've upset a lot of local governments about this. Do you have any concrete examples of municipalities where education money has gone elsewhere rather than schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U55	I've never said that education money goes anywhere but to schools. And there is no reason to argue that, since, as is well known, all municipalities are adding to the budget of schools the amounts to be taken into account in order to cover their liabilities, more or less in the same amount as the State allocates for this purpose. It is therefore always correct to claim that all the money received from the state goes to education. However, it is possible to estimate on the basis of the balance sheets of the Ministry of Finance the amount of money allocated to teachers, directors and school leaders under § 82 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. And it is true that all the money that the state has allocated for this purpose will not reach teachers and school leaders on the basis of balance records. We have asked the local authorities to explain why these funds have been used for. We have over 200 municipalities, and we received an answer from about half of them. Many municipalities acknowledged that all this money has not gone for teachers and school leaders. It has been used for the remuneration of support specialists, as allowed by the Government of the Republic's decree, partly left in reserve and used for investments, for example. Such documents are at the disposal of the Ministry of Education and Research and I have promised to send them to all members of the Riigikogu, which I will certainly do after leaving here so that you can see for yourself what answers the local authorities have given to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U56	The second point, Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U57	Mr. Minister! So let's just say that you don't blame any local authorities for the education money being moved away from education. Maybe the press has misunderstood. I have the following question. You wrote in Postimees that in public schools, you will introduce higher salaries from 1 January to all teachers, support professionals, as well as other educators, and hope that other schoolkeepers, therefore local authorities, will follow your example. Please tell me how this is possible if state schools' funding has been increased by only 5.2% in the state budget next year, with two state secondary schools coming up and the price of electricity rising by 20%. It turns out that the Ministry of Education will then ask 18 municipalities, including the city of Tallinn, to fund Viljandi State Gymnasium. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U58	The budget of state secondary schools as a whole has not really increased by 11%, but we know that the wage fund for teachers in Estonian schools represents a much smaller proportion than 100% of the budget. And the growth of other budget items is much smaller. I believe that the Ministry of Education and Research will be able to guarantee in all public schools the level of funding that we have publicly promised, i.e. an average salary of at least EUR 860 per month per teacher. As far as Viljandi Upper Secondary School is concerned, the decision to establish this school was taken before I took up my current post. In connection with this decision, an agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Education and Research and the City of Viljandi, whereby the City of Viljandi undertook to provide additional support from its budget in the event of the establishment of a state secondary school. This obligation of the city of Viljandi results not from law, but from a contractual relationship between the two parties. In connection with the establishment of the Viljandi State Secondary School, the Ministry of Education and Research also asked other local governments of Viljandi County who would send their children to this school if they would agree on the same basis as the City of Viljandi to provide additional funding for the studies of students entering the state secondary school. As has already been said, this agreement is a bilateral agreement which is not a matter of law. Local authorities in themselves are not bound by any of these obligations. We are currently also negotiating with the city of Viljandi to abandon this agreement from 2014 and also to take Viljandi State Gymnasium, just like all other state secondary schools, for full state maintenance. As has already been said, it started with a bilateral voluntary agreement concluded in its own time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U59	And now two questions registered on the spot. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U60	I will take this opportunity to return to your answers on the previous point. In your reply to Inara Luigas, you confirmed that in the new financing model, you put particular emphasis on the fact that in the first and second levels of basic school, or the Estonian language, you say 1. in class, the child can study close to home, the next steps must be based on opportunities. The draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, which was in the Government of the Republic last week, is not yet in it, but have you therefore planned to amend the law on basic school and upper secondary school so that we would also be legally prepared for the school system to become 6-grade by region?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U61	I'll start with a 6-grade school system. Such an interpretation is quite surprising to me. We really have a basic school divided into grades I, II and III, but I have never understood that this would mean that we have a 3-class, 6-grade and 9-grade school system. The basic education system is comprehensive, everyone is guaranteed basic education to the extent that they are required to attend school. At the same time, it has historically developed that the proximity of the home to the school is different. In school grades I and II, for younger students, the home is often closer than for children in grade 7, 8 and 9; even further away, upper secondary school students in grade 10, 11 and 12 may have upper secondary school pupils. As far as funding for schools is concerned, there will be no change in this regard in 2013 by my better knowledge. This restriction on funding differences in grade III of comprehensive school, when the number of students falls below 30, has been a practice in recent years. It has been understood, it is rooted, and there is no reason to change it in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U62	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U63	Good minister! As a person who did not work at school, it is still unclear why we distinguish between teachers and support professionals when it comes to funding. Basically, special teachers and logopeds are also teachers at school. Why do we skip the gap and say it's funded by the state here or there or in a third place? After all, they are teachers and, according to my understanding, the source of funding should be one and unambiguous. Do you have any thought of changing that attitude in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U64	I can tell the difference between a psychologist and a teacher. Whether a psychologist teaches at school or doesn't teach at school, it shouldn't be too complicated. After all, there are employees other than managers, teachers and support specialists, everyone has their roles and tasks, and these tasks differ for quite obvious reasons. Similarly, I understand why different groups of employees are paid differently. If anyone thinks that all school staff should receive a single salary, I do not think there is a need for it. Apparently, most people agree that drivers should pay higher than teachers, even though there are opinions that they could be equal. Similarly, support professionals, service staff and many other educational staff have different salaries. I see nothing artificial in this distinction. To put it simply, teachers are, according to this classification, people who give lessons in front of the class. Support specialists support them in this work, whether as a psychologist, as a logopaedic, as a social pedagogy or in other specific areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U66	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Esther Tuiksoo and corresponds to Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. The subject is the state of play of local governments. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U67	Mr President! Honourable Minister of Regional Affairs! As we know, the Riigikogu is preparing a draft law 311, which is entitled 'Law amending the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Local Government Organisation Act'. This is what we have today at third reading, and you are certainly well aware of this procedure. I am interested in your assessment, as Minister of Regional Affairs, of the fact that the Association of Estonian Cities failed to coordinate the amendments concerning the extension of the loan limit. Why does the coalition do what it wants rather than listen to the opinion of the community of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U68	First of all, there will be an important change next year: for municipalities, borrowing will become much more free and it will affect most Estonian municipalities. The dispute is whether some of the municipalities whose financial position would allow it could take on more loans so that their loan burden would be more than 60% of net revenue, i.e. up to 100%. In fact, it is a relatively small number of municipalities, but when the government discussed this issue, the Ministry of Finance in particular was very clear that this would have a negative impact on the overall budget balance. The impact would be too great and we would no longer fit into our budgetary strategy. If you're asking my opinion, I don't think that's a good idea. Could have done it the other way around. But during the debate in the government, I remained a minority on this issue. However, I believe that this issue will also come back next year, because we have relatively few qualified municipalities, but at the same time they are successful in their financial performance and they need to solve very important issues, such as the creation of kindergarten places, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U69	Esther Tuiksoo, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U70	Good minister, thank you! That personal opinion of yours was very important to me, too. I am also interested in compensating cities and municipalities for the land tax exemption. We have heard here in the Riigikogu and also in the media the claims of your party's representatives that the local governments will be compensated for all the loss of money resulting from the land tax exemption of the land under their home country, and that there is a very good law at all. I have a table here that shows that Tallinn, for example, loses 2.3 million euros, Maardu City 216000 euros, Viimsi Municipality 559000 euros, etc. What do you say to that, and are you planning on helping the municipalities who lose a lot of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U71	First of all, I would like to stress once again that with the land tax exemption, the state does not take money from the municipalities, but that money remains for the people, for the families living in the municipalities. However, a compensatory mechanism has been developed. There has also been much discussion in this Chamber on how to compensate the municipalities for this, and it has been decided that it is best to do so by increasing the percentage of personal income tax that goes to the municipality. You read here a number of municipalities that would lose in this notional calculation today, but at the same time, about 90% of our municipalities are already winning thanks to this compensation mechanism. And if there's any way to classify losers or losers, then usually losers are more wealthy municipalities. Why do I support this compensation mechanism? Because income tax is increasing every year and in the long term, this mechanism is more beneficial to municipalities. The amount of land tax is fixed and cannot be increased. The total amount of income tax will increase and the percentage that goes to municipalities will also increase. It is also the case that the number of people on the minus side decreases all the time and the number of those on the plus side increases all the time, every year. By the way, compared to the spring and autumn forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, you can see that there is an additional victory for local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U72	Minister, your time! The second point, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U73	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. My next question concerns rural areas. Snow is down, it needs to be pushed. On the ground, it is farmers who have suitable snow-push tractors and other techniques. Unfortunately, there is a specially marked fuel in tractors, which must not be pushed by snow. The exchange of fuel, however, is problematic and uncomfortable. What have you done so that farmers can quickly snow using specially labelled fuel if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U74	This is a slightly different subject, but if you want to know my point of view, I do not think it makes any sense to use special fuel. We should abandon this and compensate certain target groups with other subsidies. I don't think the current system can be effective. However, when it comes to the situation of the municipalities on which the question was asked, I am pleased that we have reached an agreement with the national self-government associations on road savings for next year that 10% of the excise duty received will be allocated for this purpose. This is an agreement reached over several years, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U75	And now two questions registered on the spot. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U76	Good minister! I'll be back with the Financial Management Act of the local government unit. This law also makes one exception for 60% of this: they are municipalities taking loans from KIK, which carry out large water and sewerage projects. Here's my question. Once upon a time, there was a great program 'Schools times! ' and one of the great parties that initiated it was Res Publica. When this project was sold to local governments through the State Real Estate Company, local governments were not introduced to the truth of the matter. It was given the impression that this loan taken from the State Real Estate Company did not fall under the general loan burden. Many local authorities are now struggling with this, as this loan from the State Real Estate Company is now included in the loan burden. How do you comment on that and what do you have to say to these local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U77	First about KIC. I do not like that there are such a green corridor and other, so-called red corridors, but water projects are inevitably very large in size and must be carried out. This amendment, by the way, was made into a bill in the Riigikogu, not in the government. In the government, I stood by not making provision for such a special case. As regards the contracts with the State Real Estate Company, at the time those people who confirmed that this was not included in the debt ratio were based on the views of the auditors. They just didn't allow it from their own head. And when the auditors later took a different view, the people, both at national and local level, who came from the original point of view, were put in a very stupid and difficult situation. Unfortunately, we will not be able to change this, because it is not a politically adopted decision, but a purely auditor's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U78	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers. Thank you, good fellows, for your questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U79	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 11th working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U80	Good fellows! First of all, we have the opportunity to hear the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu. Due to Jaanus Rahumägi's resignation from his mandate to become a member of the Riigikogu, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, will become a member of the Riigikogu. Please, Mrs. Lokk-Tramberg, the speech chair of the Riigikogu to take the oath of office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U81	Ladies and gentlemen and good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I really have very important words to say to you: I, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in composition XII of the Riigikogu, swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U82	Good fellows! Now I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I hereby submit to the procedure a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control'. The essence is that a member of this committee, Arto Aas, has now become a member of the ELAK Commission, also elected chairman there, has gained a great deal of work and is therefore abandoning the work of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Our proposal is that Andre Sepp becomes a new member, and Aivar Sõerd continues as alternate member. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U84	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U85	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I, as well as a whole of the members of the Central Party Group, are again pleased to address the question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This concerns the leakage of state secrets. This is the same subject that we discussed as the first point in Question Time today, but Question Time allows this to be done for a limited period of time, and we are giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to speak on this subject once more on this very board and to answer our questions. The purpose of the state secret is to ensure the security of the Republic of Estonia by protecting state secrets against disclosure and disclosure to persons without right of access. Persons who have a right of access to state secrets shall be bound by the national secrets which have become known to them. The specific case on which this inquiry is based relates to a report by the Defence Police Department, which was published to the public in the December 7 Äripäev newspaper. Kapo warned about business leaders darting at the state company. The article tells readers the story that the Defence Police Department sent ministers and president a secret report pointing to possible risks in finding a new head of EVR Cargo. The whole case is a regrettable example of the fact that Minister Juhan Parts of the Government of the Republic does not take into account the report of the Defence Police Department and the risk to the security of the state. The question of why the report by the Defence Police Department was not taken into account is the main issue for the inquisitors. There is also an obvious security risk of a secret report reaching the press. My colleagues and I will put together five questions to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U86	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission presents the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund. In view of the fact that the mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund, Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu has stopped, a new member of the Supervisory Board should be appointed in his place in accordance with the Estonian Development Fund Act. That is why the Committee on Economic Affairs presents the draft decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U88	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered Kristen Michal as a member of the Estonian Reform Party. The following changes in the membership of committees have been approved by the Riigikogu Board. Firstly, the departure of a member of the Riigikogu from the seat of a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs; secondly, the taking up of a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs of a member of the Riigikogu Arto Asa; thirdly, Tõnis Kõiv, a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs; fourthly, a member of the Economic Commission on the departure of a member of the Riigikogu Remo Holsmer, and the taking up of the seat of a member of the Monetary Committee; fifthly, a member of the Economic Committee on the taking up of a member of the Member of the Riigikogu Kristen Michal. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has also approved Arto Aasa, member of the Riigikogu, as chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, and Marianne Mikko, member of the Riigikogu, as vice-chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Good luck with all your fellows in their work! The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law on land reform initiated on 10 December and, consequently, on the amendment of other laws, the commission of the Rural Affairs Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws, initiated on 10 December, the Committee on Culture. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U89	Now let's clarify the agenda. Yesterday, we were in the middle of a debate at first reading of the draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Mailis Reps again to continue answering questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U90	Dear waitress, A few days ago, I asked the Minister of Culture in this Chamber what is the probability that, if 18 films were made, there would be eight reformers and ten non-partisans among the 18 randomly selected characters. The answer was less than half, because eight out of 18 really don't make up. This shows that with mathematics and logic at all, we have very big problems, even though it would be useful to study in our own language. At the same time, the high officials of the Ministry of Education dare to say that Russian gymnasts are easier and more efficient to study mathematics in Estonian than in their native language. Can you explain where this unprofessionalism, which is even medically idiotic, appears at the Ministry of Education? And how dare they make such an idiotic decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U91	Good questioner! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Since we have many new faces in this Chamber, I will answer your question immediately, but first I will remind you what we are discussing here. We are discussing here the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which governs and specifies our...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U92	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. I beg you, let us honor the waitress and honor those colleagues who wish to listen! I'm asking for silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U93	We want to specify to what extent and in what way we want to teach the official language. More specifically, our amendment is to emphasise the need to speak the official language and the aim of teaching the Estonian language through the Estonian language. We will also specify the compulsory subjects that in the future all other language schools at upper secondary school must teach in Estonian to ensure students have a very good knowledge of the national language, which enables them to successfully enter the labour market and, of course, also to study in the Estonian language at higher education. As regards the opinion of the Government of the Republic on draft 272, it has indeed been argued that it is a stereotyped approach that natural sciences, mathematics, physics, chemistry cannot be taught in Estonian. Of course, all subjects can be taught in a foreign language to young people who are talented. And as I said yesterday when referring to statistics, those Russian-language children who are going to the first grade or the third grade of basic school, for example, after a immersion or intensive Estonian language education or after a Russian-language comprehensive school in the Estonian-language upper secondary school, are quite a lot every year. But there are also many young people who, for various reasons, want to study in depth in real subjects. I'm sure you know very well that your husband is an excellent science teacher, that there are schools and very good pedagogies who have clearly proved, in cooperation with the sections of subjects, that at least a wide range of mathematics can't be taught to high-level young people if the language isn't excellent. And unfortunately, not all young teachers have this language skills and may fear that students' knowledge of the sciences will suffer from it. As a result, it is proposed to pay particular attention to those subjects where young people can practise the language, but where preparation for state examinations is not affected by it. If it is a matter where very special tasks need to be clarified, it is certainly not possible to do so in a foreign language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U94	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U95	Good colleague! In the opinion of the Government of the Republic on this draft, it can be considered that the problem is that local governments, which have not organised the school network, also continue to study in schools where there are fewer than one hundred pupils in the upper secondary school. How do you assess the reorganisation of the school network initiated by the Ministry and how much is necessary in the current Estonian circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U96	Good questioner! First of all, if the aim is to have good knowledge of the Estonian language as a national language, the ability to use it later on in the labour market and in further education, the Ministry of Education and Research, or the Government of the Republic, is not justified by any research, is the written opinion that if there are a hundred or fewer students, their language skills are already worse known than in larger upper secondary schools. It is clear that people's language skills cannot be analysed in such a simplified way. Everything depends very clearly on preparatory work at the level of primary school, depending on teachers, but certainly also on the child itself. At the same time, perhaps there are differences in a small upper secondary school, which may lead to lower points in the state examination of Estonian language. Such analyses must certainly take into account every nuance before starting to generalise that a small school cannot provide a good education. How well-founded are the reorganisations? Our group's position has been one for a very long time: a divorced upper secondary school, i.e. separate grades 10, 11, 12, is certainly a very welcome phenomenon if parents and schoolkeepers want to create it as a private school, municipal school or public school. However, this does not mean that other upper secondary schools must be closed or that there is a legitimate view that, for example, state funding will only be guaranteed for pure upper secondary schools. We are all very interested in the analysis of how Treffner's upper secondary school has gone when he gives strong real education, how strong electives are offered at this school because there are very many young people who are very well educated with similar interests, very talented young people who come across South Estonia together. In this sense, Treffner's school is very positive. Even in Virumaal there are gymnasiums that attract young people from all over the county, either with strong subjects or with very strong language teachings, why not? But this certainly does not give rise to the assertion that the up-to-date training of teachers proposed by the Ministry of Finance should be based solely on the thesis of large upper secondary schools. Absolutely not! There's no right reason here. Perhaps so much more about quality that this problem does not only concern Russian and Estonian schools, it also concerns small magymnasiums. A few years ago, for example, Pärnumaa gymnasiums sent the Riigikogu in writing reviews of their graduates in order to prove with concrete examples that their flights are of a very different quality for graduates. But even on flights where the results of the state exams were not good and did not fit into the TOP 20 in our definition, many young people have gone on to study very successfully and have been able to find a job and start a family. The massive closure of upper secondary schools by region will certainly have a negative impact on the opportunities of young people until we have launched all the related social measures, ranging from social support to gymnastics, dormitories, transport and everything else. We must be particularly careful in the upper secondary school network, and we must not forget the problem of the language of instruction. For example, it has been argued repeatedly that there are too many upper secondary schools in certain areas in Tallinn. However, if we take Tallinn's school network and the regional location of people from one region to another, several upper secondary schools may be accompanied by the fact that one is in Estonian and the other is in Russian. They should not be moved together in a simplified way. There is a great deal to be done in the basic analysis and a great deal to be discussed with local people, parents, before starting to play eradication on the basis of statistics in general. A similar problem has arisen with the first grade in Tallinn. In a very simplified way, the border was drawn first and it was said that children should be divided by region. But then the officials eventually faced the fact that they could not decide by name, and the parent needs to know which language the child is to be placed in the school and to what extent there is interest in immersion. A child cannot be assigned to a school where his only option is a immersion if it is not acceptable to a parent. These are all aspects that must certainly be taken into account when designing the network of upper secondary schools. And it must also be taken into account from one city to another that if we clean one school into a high school, then the school must not become too long for children in primary school or become inaccessible in terms of public transport. You can't have a child traveling from his area to downtown to get to the nearest middle school.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U97	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U98	Good colleague! In its opinion on the draft law, the Government of the Republic stresses that the initiators of the draft act do not rely on a specific study and therefore cannot support the draft. Good waitress, can you explain what the initiators of the bill were based on? Was there some kind of research, some kind of feedback, some kind of questioning? Please tell me!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U99	Yesterday we talked about this briefly, and I also referred to research. But I'll go over it briefly. Our draft has been developed on the basis of facts collected ten years ago in cooperation with the directors, teachers and parents of Tallinn University's specialists and Russian-speaking schools. Over the course of ten years, we have worked continuously with school leaders and subject specialists and have confirmed our thoughts. It is not right to proceed in such a way that we assume the responsibility of the municipality and the school, where the state does not directly provide assistance. We have prescribed this 60% requirement for schools and municipalities and we are going to check them out, i.e. to inspect them using the old term. There is even the possibility that the Language Inspectorate controls the language skills of teachers. These are all pretty unpleasant precepts for the school, and this complicates the dialogue. Our proposal is to make the system more uniform and to provide public support. The easiest thing to do is to rely on the research base that I referred to yesterday. In Tallinn, sociologists led by Iris Pettai have carried out very serious studies. The University of Tallinn has also carried out studies on the attitudes and opportunities of young people and teachers. The main signal coming from these schools is the concern that they have been put in a forced position and their opinions and very substantive proposals are not taken into account. We will take the same very over-politicised topic: the Government of the Republic has been given applications to extend the transition of 60% to the Estonian language in upper secondary schools. We can give examples of very serious schools. We take the real school of Tõnismäe and the Russian lyceum in Tallinn, Pähklimäe in Narva, they are undoubtedly among the strongest upper secondary schools in the Republic, there is no doubt about that. These letters have been very comprehensive. What have these schools applied for? Schools have actually confirmed that they have not found teachers to teach this and another subject. They have listed the relevant competitions where they have sought not just a teacher who can teach in Estonian but a teacher who is able to work in a bilingual environment and be ready to go to further training on the subject. Finding such people at school is not easy with the current payroll and it has to be said that it is very, very problematic in regions. The situation is particularly difficult in the Narva region, where finding teachers facing such challenges is very difficult. These are the studies that have been asked and the attitudes they have shown confirm that dialogue is now very, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U100	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U101	Dear author of Bill 272 amending the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act! My question is this: is there a statistical indicator based on research that suggests that Russian young people speak English better than Estonian? And if so, what is the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U102	Mr. Glass is ready to introduce us to a study. I hope, at least, that the next rapporteur from the Commission will do so. If this is Paul-Eerik Rummo, then perhaps Mr. Glass will give him a chance to introduce this study. Yesterday we touched to some extent on the opportunities for English and on the challenges of English in the framework of higher education reform. There are also several schools with the cost of language in Russian schools. Of course, the foreign language skills of these young people are excellent and their challenges outside. The main thing, however, is motivation. Life outside Estonia is much expected and it affects young people very well to learn foreign languages. They want to enter the international market. Today's internet environment, social media and all other communication with the world, which is clearly in English, will also have a motivating effect. The English language skills of our young Russian or Estonian or other language backgrounds have become very, very good. Not only are the results of the state examination good, but also the ability of young people to further study in English and work in this language environment is excellent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U103	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U104	Good Mailis, the story revolves around the fact that acquiring native-language subjects is the best for children and they get the information better. It's hard to argue with that. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to teach the official language in children's own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U105	When it comes to minorities living in Estonia, there are more than 180. We already have the possibility in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act for about ten years that if a group of at least 15 students is involved, they can learn their native language. The school must ensure this in cooperation with the municipality and the state. When we look at the real picture, schools that have opened groups in their own language for language learning are quite few. There are several reasons. Firstly, ethnic groups are not located in one region; children do not necessarily go to the same school. Also, ethnic groups may not be interested in teaching languages in municipal or private or public schools within the framework of the school programme, some prefer the form of Sunday school and cultural centres. It was very common at times when Sunday schools were quite well funded. Unfortunately, during the crisis, these sums were severely cut, but we can say that these cultural societies also have an interest in teaching their mother tongue by making culture. Now, would the teaching of Estonian in national languages be justified? At the moment, however, our attention has rather been paid to the teaching of Estonian in Russian schools. We have paid much less attention to cultural societies and other-language schools, for example, in international schools, Estonian is taught as an additive. Is it reasonable to assume that we will have more schools with other learning languages in the future? It has been discussed for quite a long time by Ukrainians, and Turkish-speaking schools in Estonia have been discussed for quite a long time, but there is no example of any such schools yet. Therefore, in the case of ethnic minorities, the teaching of Estonian language through their mother tongue is currently not relevant from the point of view of national education policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U106	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U107	Honourable waitress! Yesterday, when you answered the questions about the fact that when PGS was discussed in the previous composition, we agreed that, as far as Russian-speaking schools are concerned, we would discuss separately after things were basically set out. That part was out then. We are now being offered one step on how to solve the problem as a whole. How do you think: if this is the first step, how many changes would need to be made? How many separate drafts would be useful? Maybe make a whole block and come out with it? How do you rate that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U108	Good questioner! The Government of the Republic approved the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act last week and sent it on its way to the Riigikogu. It hasn't arrived yet, but it will. It is therefore quite likely that we will have a serious and long discussion of the basic school and upper secondary school law. Today, Minister Aaviksoo also said that the issue of support specialists must certainly be taken back to the autopsy. Funding, as well as learning problems for children with special needs, have to be discussed, which have recently become apparent. There are also problems with the implementation of the law. The question of the language of instruction, which has been written in such a simplified way as to give the schools little certainty, has to be re-examined. On the other hand, it does not give executive power, or our ministry, specific tasks. Responsibility is practically left to teacher level. If a young person does not understand the language, it is a problem for him, his parents and his teacher, although the state does not have sufficient resources, the state does not provide sufficient support, the state has not developed the system. This cannot be any teacher, every school, every parent's problem in the case of national language learning; it must be guaranteed by a national system. I very much hope that the Committee on Culture will be able to overcome politics and talk about it in substance. I believe that, in the debate on this issue, too, we will delve into the content and analyse the problems that have arisen in practice. As I conclude from the noding of the chairman of the committee, there is a willingness that we, with this new draft, which was working for a very long time in the Government of the Republic and during the round of coordination, will not rush, but will really, step by step, analyse all the key points.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U109	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U110	Honourable waitress! As a Russian, I have learned the Estonian language and I am very proud of it and, in fact, I love it very much. I have a little notebook where I write down all kinds of interesting expressions. Tell me, please, as an Estonian to me, to the Russian, is my impression correct that there is something happening to Estonian in recent years? This isn't it anymore! I find fewer and fewer expressions for my notebook. And it's not that I've learned this language so perfectly. I still say 'jeuro', which my penguin laughs about all the time. Here's my question. A large number of Russians have learned the Estonian language and speak it with a small accent. Is it good for the Estonian language or should something be done as a matter of urgency? At least I hear it's not the language he was ten years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U111	Thank you for a very good question. Of course, all the other questions have been very good. If you look at the development plan of the Estonian language, which I referred to yesterday, I would remind you once again that there is a very interesting document that tries to draw up the goals of the years 2011 to 2017 and that also addresses these problems, it also highlights the concerns of the language specialists regarding the development of the vocabulary of the Estonian language and the constant change in the language. This concern also concerns technology and the development of a scientific language. There are also very specific proposals that we could recall and implement in this Riigikogu from time to time. Has Estonian Language Changed? I'm sure there are a lot better professionals in this hall, but for years I listened to "Sleeve Ear" shows that were one of my favorites. It was very interesting to listen to the analyses presented by the highlights of this field there. I must say that I always thought, after the 'Speech Ear' show, that indeed, we should do much more of the work on the substance of the Estonian language. You indicated that if we have more and more people who do not speak Estonian correctly, we need to deal with it more broadly and systematically. It's true. I told you yesterday that by interfering with too much politics in education from time to time, we could at some point face a situation where the Estonian language is not taught at the level we expect and need. We may be using our resources very badly. Something about the methodology and attractiveness of Estonian language teaching is definitely out of place when people study for ten years, but they cannot learn it. In the school system, there are many opportunities to teach foreign languages today, and we should pay much more attention to learning the Estonian language than only political attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U112	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U113	Good waitress! My question is a little broader and connects with many of the above-mentioned thoughts. I look at things on the economic side and see that Estonia's current population is no longer sustainable. Obviously, society is facing a debate to settle here, where and how much. It is no longer possible to study all subjects in Estonian at the university. When do you think we should finally sit down and start a substantive debate, what is the status of the Estonian language? After all, the rest of the world is pushing us so that if you want to get some adequate paper, it is not possible to do it in Estonian. Have you thought about that? As a former Minister for Education, you should realise that there is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U114	I have already emphasised and emphasised yesterday that hopefully in Estonian society at large, but certainly at least at political level, the question of whether there really must be one official language in Estonia has not been considered or will be considered. Estonia has one official language, it is Estonian and it has a special status. This means that we all have an obligation to learn and teach this language, respect it and develop it, and hopefully we want to talk about it at home. Now, the next question is what is the status of the rest of our languages and the emphasis we place on language learning in schools. I'm trying to encourage you: don't be so worried! Europe as a whole has already set a target for young people to master four foreign languages quite many years ago. In a small country, the skills of four foreign languages are certainly crucial. For me, the Swiss education system has always been an example, although the political background and linguistic situation are different there. During my studies outside Estonia, I met two fellow students from Switzerland. They confirmed that in upper secondary school they read literature in the original language in literary classes. If we ever achieve the level that we can read Russian authors in Russian and German authors in German, French authors in French and English authors in English in upper secondary school, then we will have reached the level in our small country, which very many small European countries have already achieved. Their young people are very good at communicating in foreign languages. I'm sure that's a challenge for us. At the same time, it does not affect the status of the Estonian language as a special language in our country, because it is the only country where Estonian is spoken at this level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U115	Good waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Paul-Eerik Rummo, member of the Committee on Culture, will be asked to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U116	Dear Riigikogu! In order to prevent misunderstandings, I would like to answer at the outset the question that has been asked me in the costaars. This is precisely the question of the circumstances under which the draft, which was handed over already in the autumn, comes from the committee to the Riigikogu plenary session only now. I would stress that the draft had to reach the first reading before the Riigikogu on 15 November, on the unanimous decision of the committee. This decision was taken at the Commission meeting on 5 November. Unfortunately, on the next day, on 6 November, the initiator of the draft and also member of the commission, Mailis Reps, urged that the first reading be postponed, and the first date that Mailis Reps considered it possible to come to the Riigikogu to introduce the draft to the full Riigikogu could only be found now, i.e. yesterday. So on 6 November, the Committee on Culture made an amendment to its procedural decision last day and brought this draft to the Riigikogu plenary for the first time on a really late date when we compare it with the date of entry. This is the background to this fact. This draft was discussed by the Commission at relatively long intervals on 5 November. The bill introduced all the arguments that have been heard here, Mailis Reps. Irene Käosaar, Head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, who introduced the opinion of the Government of the Republic on the draft and, in answer to the questions of the members of the committee, also explained the state of affairs concerning the transition of Russian-language upper secondary schools to 60% of the Estonian language of instruction. The arguments to justify this draft have been presented in this chair for two days. Of course, in addition to these arguments, the Commission was able to obtain an overview of the position of the Government of the Republic, which, as has already been said here, was not supported by this draft. In addition, we also had the opportunity to get acquainted with the material which shows how the current basic school and upper secondary school law in relation to the provisions that the draft in question wishes to amend actually allows all the steps to be taken that have been set for the purpose of this draft. I am thinking of reaching a B2 level of language proficiency for graduates of Russian-language upper secondary schools, especially when giving the subjects mentioned in this draft. This list of substances is intended to be incorporated into the law. In fact, it is already laid down in the national curriculum of the upper secondary school, which was drawn up under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and approved by the government, where these subjects are listed. There was still discussion as to whether the provisions applying to the objectives of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act have been implemented in reality in such a way that we can say that the matter has really started without the need to amend or clarify the law in any way. There were also critical views, but the general understanding was that there was no need to amend the law, at least in the form that this draft provides for, to overcome the shortcomings. These are administrative, operational and practical issues. At the same time, it was stated that, despite all the difficulties, there has been progress in terms of attitudes. The attitude is to see whether schools, teachers, and especially parents agree with such a linguistic transition and support it or rather oppose it or are indifferent. Great readiness has been achieved. The Ministry constantly strives to cooperate with schools to overcome any difficulties in one school or another or in a specific situation. One of the objectives of this draft is set out in § 1 of the Bill, which aims to amend § 21 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. The change would be that the decision to use a language of instruction different from that of the Estonian language would not end up being made by the Government of the Republic, but would be made on the ground. This is the only significant difference compared to the law currently in force. As has been said, other proposals have already been taken into account in substance on the basis of the Regulation and the curriculum. To clarify so much, if a decision on what language of study is used is no longer made at national level, the possibility for the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Education and Research to carry out their tasks in the organisation and control of the whole education system, as well as in practical assistance will be reduced. In total, the Commission's decision was 5 to 3 not to support this draft, to present it on that date in the large hall, but not to complete the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U117	Thank you, good waitress. You also have at least two questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U118	Dear waitress, From the point of view of the Government of the Republic, we consider that the initiator has not provided a clear and research-based justification for reversing the transition of the current upper secondary school to the Estonian language. My question is: as far as you know, has the Ministry of Education presented its position on the basis of studies? The current transition has been going on for the second year, has it ensured that the objective laid down by law is achieved, i.e. language skills and young people's competitiveness improved? Has the government been able to rely on studies that confirm that the reform has met its objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U119	As you said, the reform is indeed going on for the second year. Thus, the first flight, which started teaching at the upper secondary school that used only Russian as a language of instruction, under the current basic school and upper secondary school law, is currently studying for a second year. This means that it has not yet come to an end. We can do relevant research and assess whether the reform has been successful once the first flight has completed upper secondary school studies. But as the Irene Käosaar said in the committee, the current hand pulse is being maintained all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U120	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U121	Dear waitress, According to the Ministry of Education, more than half of the teachers of Russian upper secondary schools do not speak Estonian at C1. Does it not concern the Commission and also you personally as an Estonian writer that teaching in Estonian at this language level will harm the Estonian language? The language acquired by Russian children from their teachers and spoken by thousands may be very far from the correct Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U122	Of course, this is a concern, but there is no way to overcome this concern through legislative changes such as the one proposed today. It is possible to extend the preparation of highly qualified teachers in the field of Estonian as a second language, Estonian as a national language and any subject in the context of integrated teaching within the framework of the current Act. This has been done step by step both directly at universities in the framework of basic courses and in the context of further training courses. It will certainly take some time, but the tea is right and the knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian or other native-language teachers has improved during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U123	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U124	Honourable waitress! On Citizen's Day, 26 November, I participated in a seminar with colleagues Ossinovsky and Korobenik and Mikhail Lotman in the Open Republic where integration and, among other things, this infamous transition were the subject of discussion. I must say that we did not have any contradictions with Mr Korobenik or with Mr Lotman, Mr Ossinovski, I am not talking about. We agreed that the language must be taught in the correct Estonian language, that the teacher must master the language properly, that it is a crime when the language is taught by force, etc. How did it turn out that the coalition sent people to talk to people who didn't represent the coalition's opinion? It's the other way around in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U125	If we stick to the draft we are currently debating, there is, unfortunately, no reason to believe that the changes proposed in it would really lead to faster achievement of the objectives we are proposing jointly. It is certainly better to act in accordance with the existing law, even if it is because changing the law over the halfway leads to a 'target group' and it is a very wide range of operational confusion. This does not in any way facilitate the achievement of the objectives that we all have in common when it comes to the knowledge of the Estonian language and the proficiency of the Estonian language not only in the sense of the language as a certain grammatical system. It must provide a very wide range of Estonian language skills in everyday life. All of this is our common goal and, in this sense, it is certainly not a narrowly political issue that should be treated differently according to party membership.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U126	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U127	Dear waitress, My colleague Jaak Allik has rightly said that half of the teachers in Russian schools do not speak Estonian at the required C1 level. I would add that in some schools which, by the way, have not applied for a derogation from the Government of the Republic, this percentage is considerably lower, in several schools even at 20 to 25%. You have admitted that this is a serious problem. Am I right to understand that the attitude is that, although, given the language skills of Russian school teachers, it is very difficult to guarantee high-quality Estonian language learning in many schools today, but it will improve over time? That the present generation of young people who learn in this way during the first few years must really accept teachers who do not speak Estonian, but maybe in the future it will get better? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U128	It will certainly not be possible to jump over the years and be immediately recommended today in the future that will arrive in a few or three years' time. But the trend has been that the proportion of teachers who speak poorly in Estonian is decreasing. The second point is that the situation is different from place to place and there are schools where there are considerably fewer teachers who do not have enough Estonian language. This trend is now moving in a positive direction and it is not practical to create confusion by changing the legislative base. There's no way that's necessary. In addition, in view of the current generation of students and teachers, this rate of 40% in non-Estonian student education in any school will allow highly qualified teachers whose knowledge of the Estonian language is not ideal to teach their subject perfectly in Russian and, alongside it, to improve their skills in the Estonian language. It is certainly not a coincidence of the transition under the current law that highly qualified teachers are at risk of losing their jobs because they are unable to teach one, another or third subject in the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U129	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U130	Good Commission waitress! You put pressure on the fact, both in the Commission and here today, that we recommend with our draft a change that you do not think is necessary. For me, it's a little unclear what kind of change you mean. If we look back, that was exactly the regulation in 2002, in 2003 this was the regulation until the adoption of the new basic school and upper secondary school law. During the three-year procedure of the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, we repeatedly signaled that the issue of the language of instruction would be discussed. In fact, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has only been in force for a year and a half. What kind of change or instability do you insist on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U131	I cannot agree with you in any way, as I said in the Commission. The legislative decision that the language of instruction in other languages will be replaced against the Estonian language has been taken a long time ago. The interim amendments made to this law have been of a technical nature. There has been a postponement of deadlines for practical reasons and one or two others. Among other things, this law mentions subjects to which particular attention will be paid in the transition, when it was initiated and implemented when Mr Reps himself was Minister for Education. All amendments have been of a specific nature, bearing in mind the same objective as the basic school and upper secondary school law when it was first adopted. Now, to change the principle that a decision on the language of instruction in a school is taken by the Government of the Republic and, therefore, to a large extent to take away the obligation of the Ministry of Education and Research to deal with this matter, this is already a really important substantive change. Among other things, the question arises as to how the state can ensure that this objective is achieved and that the law is enforced. The rest of the changes you propose in your draft have already been implemented in practice anyway, as the current basic school and upper secondary school law has approved a curriculum that contains precisely the same things that you want to see as being enshrined in the law. There is also the goal and requirement for upper secondary school graduates to achieve language proficiency at least at B2 level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U132	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U133	Dear waitress, I listened to questions and answers here, and I did not understand some answers to my colleagues' questions. Is it still normal for us to launch a reform in a situation where its main players, or teachers, are not really prepared? Is it normal that we first decide to do something, then we push it on and then we start dealing with those people who are supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U134	Undoubtedly, the teachers' current preparation of the frame is neither perfect nor desirable. At the same time, the state has not begun to comply with the law in the last few years. In order to implement the reform, teachers were prepared immediately after the adoption of the first version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the early 1990s. It has, in a sense, passed over stones and stumps, which is unfortunately a fact, partly because of the lack of teachers or teacher candidates who really are interested in the matter and who understand the purpose. But the progress made is obvious, and making changes to the law does nothing to keep this progress going.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U135	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U136	A good Commission waitress, who I am sure you are a specialist in this area! That's the question. Today you stress that the goal of moving to upper secondary school education in Estonian has lasted for a very long time. Why, then, do you think that there is still no requirement for an Estonian-language upper secondary school in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act? If the goal is to switch to upper secondary school education in the Estonian language in the future, why are 60% and 40% so far confused in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U137	I will take this opportunity to explain one thing that may not have reached public consciousness to the extent necessary. This law was not adopted in its time in view only of the Russian upper secondary school. It was adopted with a view to giving the opportunity, I mean the 60:40 percent cap. This was done with the aim that in other languages it would be possible to provide a high level of education in Estonia without being in any way illegal or out-of-law. However, so that there is no other language at 100% of the school held by the state or local government in Estonia, these percentages were determined. I would not even stress the role of the Estonian language as a national language here, but the role of the Estonian language as the language that a person living in Estonia can best cope with his or her life. That's the reason. And I would stress that we are not talking about a 100% requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U138	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Jaak Allik, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U139	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U140	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With the draft 272, the Centre Party wishes once again to draw the attention of the Riigikogu to the fact that the Social Democrats have repeatedly spoken and written about. It is quite clear that if you try to teach different subjects to students in Estonian at the end of the ninth grade even at level B1, which means understanding the conversation on the subject of everyday life, and by teachers whose proficiency in the Estonian language is not at the required level C1, there is no way to achieve an increase in the competitiveness of these young people in the labour and higher education market, which, according to the Minister of Education, is the purpose of such an experiment. But there are thousands of young people like that. The average grade of the final exam in Estonian in 2011 was less than 60 points in 36 Russian-speaking comprehensive schools, and according to the Ministry of Education itself, more than half of the upper secondary school teachers do not speak Estonian at a level that would enable them to teach anything in the correct language. The result of such teaching, if someone really applies it seriously, can only be that the volume of knowledge prescribed in the curriculum is not achieved in different subjects, the hours of which have given time and energy to learn the Estonian language. Forced language learning, which is carried out at the expense of the necessary professional knowledge, can certainly increase hatred in young people both against the Estonian language and against the Estonian state. Whoever doesn't remember it or hasn't come into contact with it from his youth, let me quote to them the opinion of an authoritative person like Hannes Tamjärv: "If we are forced to learn something, then this learning is one eternal enmity. And the result of....how ever between the weak, between zero. But the worst part is that sometimes with a minus sign, because it is quick to come up against this subject. ' It can be hoped that the majority of conscience teachers will, however, try to give their students the maximum of the knowledge required in the curriculum, and then this desired study in Estonian will only become an appearance for the construction of Potemkini village, which is intended for inspections. This is the result of this reform in Latvia, as I have been assured by a number of Latvian politicians from whom I have inherited it. Of course, this involves teaching students how to cheat and achieve appearances from Earth to Earth, but it's probably less evil than simply not knowing them. The position of the Socialists is absolutely unanimous. Instead of trying to teach Estonian to foreigners by force and force in high school, it is necessary to put the emphasis on teaching a good Estonian language in kindergarten and comprehensive school, so that at the end of comprehensive school the language proficiency level would really be at least B1, whose upper secondary school would raise B2 to a level, and why not also through professional classes, if they are really provided by good and native Estonian-speaking teachers. Only then can we be sure that the language the student hears in class is a proper Estonian language. With its draft, the Centre Party seeks to improve the current situation by amending the law, excluding the consent of the local government and the decision-making power of the government to grant permission to operate at a secondary school in another language. We believe that, above all, the government should be required to comply with the current law. After all, the meaning of the law is quite clear: the school board has the right to choose the entire school or one of its classes from the school development plan. If the local authority considers such a request to be reasonable and reasonable, it shall contact the Government of the Republic for permission to do so. In our view, there should indeed be a primary and respectable choice of care body throughout the process. After all, there is a body of trustees who is best aware of the specific situation in school and in each class, both in terms of the level of pupils and teachers, and certainly no parent wants to harm his child, that is to say, the lack of competitiveness in the labour and higher education markets, by paraphrasing the Minister of Education. Unfortunately, the government refused to take into account the opinions of the 14 schools' councils and to grant permission to do so, completely ignoring the meaning of the law and the position of the Riigikogu which adopted the law. In this light, the reasoning put forward by the Government in its opinion on Bill 272 is particularly cynical: if the requirement to obtain a licence for the use of other language of instruction in school from the local government is abolished, this will significantly reduce the organisational role of the Ministry of Education and Research and could lead to a decrease in the overall quality of education. I would remind you that the local government granted the so-called permit to eight upper secondary schools in Tallinn and six in Narva. It was the Ministry of Education and Research that refused to grant the permit, without any substantive justification, with a desire, like the Bolsheviks, to be forced to do good to parents and young people, even though they do not wish to do so well. It is no wonder that I have heard from my constituents in Narva that the aim of such a policy is a conscious desire to leave Russian youths without quality education, forcing them into simple work. It is obvious that, by authorising the government to grant such authorisation, the legislator has unfortunately failed to mention the criteria on which the government should base its decision. In our opinion, this is the way forward, rather than listing subjects at law level, which must necessarily be taught in Estonian as offered by the Centre Party. I repeat, we believe that only the level of language proficiency of the student and teacher can be important, not the nomenclature or percentage volume of subjects taught in Estonian. For example, the requirement to teach Estonian history in Estonian has always seemed mysterious and even wrong to me. It seems that understanding the substance's content is crucial in this particular case. After all, it is known that the perceptions of our recent history are different among young people of different nationalities. Thus, it is the teaching of history that should give priority to the content, not the language in which it is taught. But this is, of course, a single question. The Group of the Social Democratic Party is of the opinion that the draft proposed by the Centre Party deserves to be discussed and improved, and that is why we oppose the Commission's proposal not to end the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U142	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Toomi Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U143	Thank you, Madam President. I now have a little fear for my colleague Allik that he will probably be in the kapo yearbook next year. Since I have nothing left to lose, I'll tell you what I'm saying. We are discussing a draft in this Chamber, which I dare say is of symbolic significance. During two days there was a very substantive debate about whether it would be worth teaching children who speak Russian in Estonian and what the consequences of such an education policy would be, largely thanks to the opposition. I am pleased that within my home party, a clear compromise was reached on this issue. You wouldn't be able to talk about it if not each of us were to delve into the problem by trying to make things as clear as possible. The result is that we have worked out this draft on the basis of numerous negotiations and meetings with parents, teachers, scientists and also studies that were briefly discussed here by Mailis Reps. In fact, one of these studies is even funny in the current context, and was commissioned by the Ministry of Education and confirmed that schools, teachers and students are not ready for transition. And that was only a year and a half ago. I am very sorry that the representatives of coalition parties do not bother at all to get an objective picture. I'm sorry about the expression! To take the poison that nine out of ten people who are currently holding their finger over the red button and waiting for the signal to vote down Bill 272 have never been to Russian school to meet parents or children in an informal environment. If you go to school for a public holiday and the choir of Russian schoolchildren is lined up in front of you, who sings with an accent in Estonian, it is, of course, a joy, but this is not a signal that the school is ready for transition. But who cares? We have a blogger in this hall whose creations have this peculiarity, that it amplifies every stupidity he gets in his ear. I was impressed by the reply of his benchmate regarding our bill, which proposed that the application for state legal aid be made in Russian as well. 'Why not in Swahili? '' smiling at a politician. It is nice, of course, that such stories cannot reach the remote control because they are a person who successfully channels it elsewhere, but these lines show very clearly the coalition's attitude towards the Russian-speaking community. Because I believe that even Liisa Pakosta is aware that Estonian and Russian, not Estonian and Swahili, are 97% of the native languages of Estonian residents. At the same time, there are no political parties in the Riigikogu who would say very clearly that they do not need the support of the Russians in the elections. Yes, it is! A few weeks ago, I attended a seminar that I already mentioned in my question to Malik. It was organised by the Open Republic, and there were representatives of all parliamentary parties: Mr Korobeinik, Mr Lotman, Mr Ossinovski and myself. And we all agreed on this transition. The consensus also prevailed on the issue that, as a result of an unthinking transition, more and more young people are unable to express themselves correctly in either Estonian or Russian. And as strange as it may seem, as Professor Lotman IRL's representative, he has shared his experience in this field, and he knows very well how students express themselves in their own language after such a transition. So what? Is this opinion somehow reflected in the outcome of today's vote? It's empty! It is the custom of our parties to send people to meet with the people whose views should be pleasing to the audience, but they may not even match the party's views at all. In the specific case, this was done by coalition parties. People acting as party representatives should not, in fact, have the right to express their opinion alone. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U144	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U145	Isn't that cheating? I think it is, but then the majority in this hall thinks differently. Unfortunately, it has to be said that in recent times the whole education policy in Estonia has been built on lies. Let's take the government's assessment of this bill. We read from there that the initiators have not relied on specific studies. Inevitably, the impression is that the government, by adopting the decision to switch to Estonian-language education in this notorious proportion of 60:40, has been based on research. But it's not! We know that very well. It was just a political formula that was sucked out of a pen. Moreover, although the transition started in 2007, the Ministry of Education and Research has so far not carried out any studies to determine how children acquire knowledge of subjects in Estonian. It just doesn't interest anyone, or they're afraid to find out what the result is. I will also bring an incredibly hypocritical example of the built Potemkin village. A week ago, Minister Aaviksoo answered my question about the late immersion in Tapa's Russian Gymnasium that everything was very well, mathematics exams have been excellently performed there. But math is taught there in Russian! And when I told the minister, he wasn't even embarrassed. Quite normal: a person stands for an excuse for an expression! And he's lying, and it's okay! That kind of thing is really sad. Now, finally, what we relied on. We relied, among other things, on two studies and meetings. We also have 37000 signatures collected throughout Estonia in support of Russian-language upper secondary school education. If no one remembers, I would remind you that, for example, the petition against ACTA was signed by 7500 people, which is considerably less. What are the Russians responsible for wanting their children to be educated in Russian? Do we necessarily have to pull on the foil caps so they can spot us? I beg you, honourable Members, let us give this bill a chance to live on. Let's discuss it again, maybe we can give the Russians the opportunity to educate their children in such a way that they can not only understand the Estonian language, but also have what to say in that language!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U146	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since the lead committee has proposed to reject this draft at first reading, we must vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the decision of the leading committee to reject the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, 272 at first reading. Please vote! 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 28 abstentions. Bill 272 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U147	Our next item is the third reading of the draft State Budget Act (2013) 278 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will give you an overview of the draft State Budget Act 2013 regarding its third reading. The first reading of the draft act took place in s. 23 October 2005 and second reading on 21 November 2005. In order to prepare for the third reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft State Budget Act 2013 and the related topics at its meetings on 4 and 10 December. During the course of the procedure, ministers from all sectors have been heard, economic forecasts and the economic situation have been analysed and representatives of Eesti Pank have also met on budgetary issues. The revenue of the state budget amounts to 7,483 billion euros and expenditures to EUR 7,683 billion. The deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. on 28 November at 5 p.m., was 14 amendments received and the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself drew up two proposals. The first amendment of the Finance Committee consists largely of technical changes within the areas of government of the ministries, as well as changes to several laws at the same time as the state budget of the Riigikogu is dealt with in the Riigikogu, including the Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Act amending environmental charges and the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act. Specific explanations for the amendments are included in the list of amendments. The second amendment of the Committee on Finance increases regional investment and supports a number of projects in the third sector. The amendment has been drafted on the basis of the Group of the Reform Party and the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance. A letter sent on 3 December 2013 with proposals to complete the draft State Budget Act 2013. The increase in regional investment grants and ad hoc grants and other expenditure included in the proposal represents one-off costs and is not reflected in the budget base of ministries for the following year. The same proposal also provides for a revenue reduction of EUR 2 million in relation to delaying the entry into force of the amendment to the Maritime Safety Act until 1 July 2013. The amount of the reserve of the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the amount of EUR 4.59 million is calculated as a source of cover. The government budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be reduced by EUR 900000 in the sub-account for the development of democracy and the revenue of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will be increased by EUR 3.96 million. The Finance Committee took full account of both proposals submitted by the Committee on Culture, as a result of the Law on student grants and student loans and related amendments to other laws and the Law on Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools. The remaining amendments were rejected by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group is essentially similar to the one put forward for the second reading of the draft. Separate proposals have been made this time to increase the salaries of resident doctors and museum staff. I would also mention the reasons for not supporting the proposals here, at least in part. The need to increase student loans to 8.6 million has been unclear. Growth would then be more than 100% planned in the budget and indirect costs would also increase. Local government revenues, including tax revenues, have actually reached the 2008 level in real life in 2013, i.e. before the cut. Part of the increase in the salary of educators must come as a result of changes in school organisation. Increasing the total wage costs without improving the school network is unlikely to be sustainable. Income support expenditure in 2013 has a budget of EUR 23 million, which also takes into account the increase in the cost of the electricity price per application. Higher education grants amount to EUR 12.4 million in the 2013 budget, which is EUR 3.6 million more than in 2012. From 2013/2014. students who have been matriculated during the academic year are paid a needs-based study grant. The increase in the share capital of Eesti Energia is planned to cover investments already decided, without the increase in equity it will not be possible to comply with these investment plans. The sale of unreformed land to such an extent is not optimal under the long-term plan of land sales, as the market situation is currently at a low level of land prices. The Ministry of the Interior was allocated EUR 8.4 million to increase its wage costs, enabling the Minister of the Interior to decide which areas need more funding. The aim is to increase the necessity of the family benefit system instead of extending the non-discipline. Additional needs-based family allowances will be introduced from 2013. As a result of the second reading of the 2013 draft state budget, the budget for ambulance services increased by EUR 569105. In the Riigikogu, the draft amendment to § 177 point 8 of the Employment Contracts Act, which bears the number 320 and which directs an additional EUR 1.45 million to the cost of providing ambulance services for the reduction of unemployment benefit, with a total amount of more than EUR 2 million. The Commission also failed to take into account the amendments of the Estonian Centre Party Group, the content of which is to increase the support fund for school meals, increase support for the acquisition of equipment for the language immersion of kindergartens in the city of Narva, reduce electricity excise duty and increase the labour and economic costs of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. In examining these amendments, the Commission raised the question of the admissibility of the sources of cover. One source of cover has been the increase in income tax receipts by reducing the tax gap due to the additional financing of the Tax and Customs Board. The Commission draws attention to the fact that the Tax and Customs Board has improved its work and continuously reduced the tax gap, while further improvements are becoming increasingly difficult. Specifically, reducing the income tax gap by nearly two thirds in just one year and with such a short period of preparation is not real. It is also not acceptable to reduce the special-purpose contributions of the Ministry of Culture in relation to the result of the activities of the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People in the field of film. The funding for this project was provided by the European Commission, which assesses its eligibility and is not linked to the 2013 budget. More important reasons for not supporting the proposals. Indeed, the possibility of extending school food support to upper secondary school should be reviewed to make it more needs-based. The share of electricity excise duty in the household electricity bill is currently close to 4.7% and the impact of the reduction in excise duty on the price increase is approximately 0.13 percentage points. The labour and management costs of the Tax and Customs Board are EUR 38 million planned in 2013, which is sufficient to pursue the so-called tax gap actively. Rapid changes to the structure or IT solutions of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board may not produce the desired result. Additional resources will be allocated to kindergartens at the expense of other sources of coverage through the proposals of the Committee on Finance for regional investments and support projects. Finally, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the third reading of the draft and put the draft to the final vote. There were six for it, three against and one abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U149	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U150	Dear waitress, The Social Democratic Party proposed that the Ministry of Culture be provided with salaries in order to raise the salary of all cultural workers by 20%, which the Commission refused. At the same time, we see that money has been found for a pretty big raise to the Estonian National Opera and Vanemuine Theatre. Can you tell us why these two cultural institutions were chosen and highlighted among others?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U151	There was no thorough discussion in the Commission about which items should be highlighted, which were not. In the Commission, there was only 'to the extent that' discussion and it can be said that, in the opinion of the majority of the Commission, the particular reason for these two institutions' wage increases was that these wage increases were lower than the other wage increases in the same sector. This was also the basis for voting for the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U152	Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U153	Dear waitress, I would like to ask about the amendment you have mentioned concerning the cost of covering the increased costs associated with ambulance workers and health care at all. Given the other proposals that were on the table, as chairman of the committee, do you find it a little embarrassing that this money is now coming at the expense of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U154	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U155	I wouldn't be so arbitrary or subjective, which is embarrassing, which isn't embarrassing. If we look at the income support for the unemployed, we can say that the increase is 35%. It can always be estimated whether 35% is small or large, but I would say that this increase as a percentage is certainly not small.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U156	Good chairman of the committee! The Commission suddenly found an additional EUR 9.5 million. Who proposed the items included in the budget and who found the source of its cover? Did this distribution take place in line with the state budget strategy or in the light of any development plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U157	Good colleague! As I said in my preparatory speech to the Riigikogu, this was the result of a joint letter from the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Chairman of the Group of the Reform Party, in which they found that money could be allocated to a number of different positions. I'm sure you'll notice there's money in these positions in several segments. And this has been done not only in the light of different objects, but also in the context of a loss of revenue. I will give an example of EUR 2 million, by which the possible increase in charges for navigation will be reduced. The initiators, as I said, are the leaders of the political groups. How they want to draw up lists, I'm afraid I can't comment on that, or I can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U158	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U159	Good waitress! I will pick up where Tarmo Tamm started: 9.5 million so-called 'roof money'. You didn't count any proposals from the Centre Party, for example, you didn't find any money to lower the electricity excise, but it was like 9,5 million you found overnight. I'm asking about a particular foundation. This is the Unitas The World Memory Film Project, which will receive EUR 50000. I checked, there's no such foundation. How about that? Will the money be received by the person who registers this foundation the fastest, or how is it meant to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U160	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U161	Unfortunately, you are not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If you were in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you would have been able to answer that question. But let's work it out of this Riigikogu speech chair. It was a coma, which has now been repaired. It's a Foundation in Unita. The letter should have had a comma, followed by the name of the project. This error has been corrected, i.e. it has been set between the commas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U162	Dear waitress, Over a period of time, money has been allocated to county self-government associations thanks to the pressure of social democrats and probably in some respects. I'm asking you this: how should you use this money now? Perhaps the Commission has a vision, because not all municipalities are known to belong to local governments. Recently, three of the municipalities of Saaremaa stepped out and four of the 16 municipalities of Saaremaa do not belong. What about using that money? Is it intended to be used within a local government association or to organise regional cooperation? How will this cooperation take place if not all municipalities are part of the municipal union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U163	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U164	Thank you, that is a very good question! I can say very clearly what the Committee on Monetary Affairs has meant. The Committee on Finance has not given a very clear guideline on how to use the money, and the authors of the letter sent to us have not asked for it either. This amount goes specifically to the Union, and I imagine that the Union will present its understanding of how it believes that this money should be used in the future. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has not given a very clear guideline.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U165	Dear waitress, I would ask you to explain a little of your answer to Mr Allik's question concerning the allocation of additional money to Estonia and the Vanemuine. You said that the Commission's proposal reached the conclusion that the salaries of other cultural institutions financed by the state budget would have increased more than those of the two cultural institutions. As I understand it, you claim that earlier in the state budget, other foundations and theatres established by the state had a higher wage increase than Estonia and Vanemuine. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U166	No, I'm afraid you've misunderstood what I said before. I wasn't talking about anyone else getting more, I was talking about the basis of the threshold, or what the current base, or threshold, is. The claim previously made by the Commission was that these specific bodies currently have a threshold lower than similar institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U167	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U168	Good waitress! It is known that the state budget is the most important document of the year, according to which our country will start operating next year. It is time to take stock at third reading. This is a question for you as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and for the coalition policy. By putting your hand on the heart, do you dare say that next year's budget is good for the country and its sustainability? Can it lay a hard foundation for the people's livelihood and economic development, so that the flow of people from Estonia will quietly end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U169	Thank you. This question would have been a good one if it had been the last question, then it would have been a little longer to answer. But I will try to be brief, given that there are certainly many questions today. This is a good budget that we are currently dealing with! And I think it's gotten even better in the process. I am thinking of the budget that came from the Government of the Republic and gave very clear directions to which the state wants to go, as well as the changes that have been made during the procedure. I would point out that we have also dealt with a number of other legislative proposals in the context of the state budget procedure that specify the budget or channel additional resources into different sectors. And when we look at the big picture, on the one hand, we want to keep the objective of keeping the state budget balanced and moving towards a balance point, on the other hand, but we want to channel money towards raising public sector wages, increasing pensions and increasing social benefits. It's not that easy. I think the documents we have on the table today give us reason to believe that we can do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U170	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U171	Good Commission waitress! Every day in the Riigikogu makes people smarter. I learned today that the leaders of the coalition's political groups are entitled, between second and third readings, to make the changes they like in the state budget, i.e. to select items that are particularly close to their heart. I ask: do the chairmen of these groups have any special right to decide on the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U172	Not at all! But thank you, good question! Everyone has the right to address the Committee on Monetary Affairs and other committees. I would like to point out that, in addition to the specific proposal that I have already mentioned, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has also received the proposal of the Broken Ryeflower Association and, as you can see, it is now inside. A letter has come from the President of the Republic with a request to find a way to allocate money and it is in here, a request has come from the Estonian Cooperation Assembly to find money. So, ladies and gentlemen, take this opportunity to come up with proposals. If there are proposals, then there is an opportunity to discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U173	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U174	Dear colleague, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If our Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, did not find money in support of a free-will salvation union for several years, then the Riigikogu finally found this money. Not as much as the rescue team wanted, but that's a good thing. Thank you. But my question is completely different. In fact, with one amendment, I think it was No 2 that the Minister of Regional Affairs was also given money within the framework of the Ministry of the Interior's budget to prepare for administrative reform. Finally, it remained EUR 30000. On Monday in the local government support group and today in this Question Time, the Minister of Regional Affairs was asked what would happen with this money. He didn't know very well, said he was likely to hire a project manager to prepare for the administrative reform. What does the Committee on Monetary Affairs think this EUR 30000 should be done in the area of administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U175	Let's start with the first, introductory part of the question. You specifically praised the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In fact, congratulate those coalition leaders who proposed it. If these proposals had not come forward, it would certainly have been more difficult to implement this amendment. This amendment, which was made by the Social Democrats, was drafted more correctly than the Central Party's amendments, many of which had not been properly drafted. You were well-formed, but your source of cover was unacceptable to the current coalition. In real life, you anticipated a very strong tax increase of almost EUR 100 million, which we are not ready for. By 'us', I mean the coalition. In this sense, rather praise the authors of this letter, which was sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's on the one hand. Now to the essence of the question: what should the Minister for Regional Affairs do? As far as I am concerned and have consulted the authors of the letter, the aim is to pay even more attention next year to strengthening local authorities, and to continue to do so. And next year, the Minister of Regional Affairs will act. I imagine it would be a pleasure for him to know that, in addition to the budget provided for by the Government of the Republic, an additional amount will come under his administration. It has been said in this Chamber that local authorities should be stronger and have more opportunities. I think this is a step towards strengthening them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U176	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U177	Honourable waitress! I will return once again to the threshold of cultural institutions. I am very sorry that I am obviously going to touch on a subject in this large Chamber that you probably discussed very thoroughly in the Commission. But I will now put aside public Estonia and ask for a very specific answer, and I will ask for a specific answer. If we take the Vanemuine Theatre and the drama theatre, what exactly is the threshold, which Vanemuine had so far been lower, and what was now equated with this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U178	I can answer from the information I have for today. When the target purpose of the various records was passed, we heard from the authors of the letter that, according to their information, employees in these specific cultural institutions have lower salaries than other institutions in the same sector. It was not specifically mentioned which institutions were meant to be. I'm afraid I don't have that information. If you have a particular interest, we can clarify this from the authors of the letter who proposed this to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I don't think there's a secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U179	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U180	Dear waitress, Please explain why the Commission rejected Social Democrats' proposal No 11 to increase labour and management costs in the Estonian National Museum by 20,000 euros for wage income growth in connection with the creation of Russian collections. As far as I know, both the Ministry of Culture and the museum themselves agree with the creation of these collections. Please do not explain that this was an increase in wage costs, because these theatres are also an increase in wage costs, 25 times the size you rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U181	What kind of paper do you read there? In order for you to be better informed, Mr Asker, I will tell you that three amendments came together from the Socialists. In the list of your own amendments, proposal No 11 does not exist. While we are now talking about Amendment 11, the salaries of the institutions of the Ministry of Culture are coordinated with the Minister of Culture and the general 4.4% wage increase, which lies ahead in the administration of all other ministries, also lies ahead in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U182	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U183	Dear Sven Sester! Unlike you, I am very disappointed in this state budget. I am not going to explain why, but one of the reasons, of course, is that the Gender Equality Commissioner and his team, rather than the team, do not have the kind of money that the Social Democrats wanted. Now for your great joy. You said you would be delighted and ask everyone to sign this state budget law. I ask: what makes you particularly proud of this state budget, and what are you very, very happy about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U184	Good questioner! I would like to start with the introduction to your question. You have taken up the issue of gender equality. I would like to draw attention to this, as we also discussed at second reading, to the fact that the Commissioner's budget for 2013 is just over EUR 62000, namely EUR 62351. The Commissioner's budget will increase next year. In addition, it has been agreed, mainly with the Norwegian State, that Norway will allocate EUR 700000 to the area for a period of three years, as this is one of the priorities of the Norwegian State. So much for information. Now your main question: you asked me to tell you what I am proud of. On the one hand, it is a balanced budget policy, on the other hand, increasing people's sense of social security: needs-based child support, increasing pensions, rising government wages. This means, among other things, an increase in the salaries of teachers, internal security workers, cultural workers, defence forces and health workers. Also, less has been said about this in the context of the budget, but next year there will be free higher education. This very important innovation. Students can study at the university for free. In addition, the government supports the organisation of the school network. There are many such steps that we can be proud of, and in fact this list would be even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U185	Mr Mikser, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U186	It's a procedural question. Thank you, manager. I'd like to be more specific. In answer to Mr Allik's question, the rapporteur said that he did not know what paper Mr Allik was talking about. In the third reading text on my table, too, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to increase the cost of labour and management of museums by EUR 20000 in the budget of the Ministry of Culture's area of government is under table 11 of the amendments. Perhaps it could be clarified whether there is the same text on our tables and before the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U187	There's the same text on my desk. I'm gonna ask the waitress now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U188	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U189	Yeah, that's the same text on my desk. But I guess in view of the basic nature of the question, I answered that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U190	Good waitress! Two months ago, the National Audit Office published an audit in which it came to the conclusion that the Government of the Republic has missed the opportunity to direct the achievement of important objectives for society. The audit states that the achievement of societal objectives requires cooperation in several areas of government, but the Government of the Republic has not directed the ministries to it and that the impact of financing decisions on the achievement of important objectives for society will not be assessed when drawing up the state budget. Statistics are collected, but the Ministry of Finance does not use the information it receives to make funding proposals. With regard to this budget, can we say that the Ministry of Finance has taken into account the criticism of the National Audit Office or rather not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U191	I think any constructive criticism is welcome. I am also absolutely certain that the Ministry of Finance has taken part in the criticism. Why do I say part of it? If you read the control report at the moment I don't have this paper on the table, but I've read it and I remember its contents, then you will see that the Minister of Finance explained why he didn't agree with the National Audit Office on several points. At the same time, I am quite sure that the Government of the Republic has taken constructive criticism into account when drawing up the state budget. Certainly, the budget can be made better in terms of overallity as well as reviewing possible development plans, but this is already the subject of the coming years. Once again, I believe that the Ministry of Finance has done its job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U192	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U193	I have a wish to give Mr. Mikser and Mr. Alli a more peaceful night. I'm gonna explain a little bit about the problem that's come up here. In the Republic of Estonia, there are three orchestras that receive money from the state budget: ERSO, the Estonian Orchestra of the Estonian National Opera and the Vanemuine Orchestra. They do the same work with the same qualifications and the same load, but they have a pay gap of 120 or 300 euros. This proposed amendment is simply to eliminate the inequality between the three orchestras. Mr. Sester, do you think this is a good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U194	Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U195	It is always reasonable to eliminate various inequalities. Personally, I did not have an overview of the matter until I received this letter, and perhaps what Tarmo Leinatamm just said explained the problem. Of course, the less inequality the better. If this is a step towards reducing inequalities, I think this is the right step.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U196	Good waitress! In the same letter that you have referred to several times and which has the signatures of the presidents of the two political groups, the distribution of money is extremely detailed up to village swings and fireproof doors by 3000 and 1000 euros. However, there is one Commission proposal concerning the Ministry of the Interior: EUR 1.3 million will be granted in support of NGOs. It's been left unwritten. Can you tell us which non-profit institutions and what kind of activity EUR 1.3 million will be allocated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U197	Please, Kadri Simson, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U198	I have not had 300 amendments in my head on the table, but I am saying that you have most likely looked at something wrong. I remember this very precisely that among these 300 amendments there is no EUR 1.3 million for NGOs. Absolutely not! I believe that no previous speaker can ask for a procedural review later, claiming that this is wrong. I don't think there's any place like this. If you find the place where the 1.3 million are written, let me know. In that case, it should definitely be a tenfold mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U199	A procedural note to the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Page 15, Table 13, 3rd row: 1311540 euros in the draft on our tables, NPOs in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U200	You can answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U201	Thank you. Is there any way to answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U202	I ask you once again: are you talking about a large budget or are you talking about a letter from two political groups? The two political groups, which have been dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do not have 1.3 million. This particular number can be the whole sum, some total overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U203	Ladies and gentlemen, these questions are not procedural. Do you have a procedural question that you will address me with if I do something wrong? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U204	My question is: are we discussing a large budget or a small budget or a state budget here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U205	This is not a procedural question that I should answer. Let's get on with the questions. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U206	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There has been a long discussion here on the increase in the fees for waterways, and when, at second reading, all the companies involved were very upset that the charges were rising several times, listening to your interview from the media this morning, I learned that the charges for waterways were actually decreasing. Can you comment on that? Should businesses be happy that in 2013 the charges for waterways will fall instead, compared to 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U207	Thank you. The question is good! I think that businesses will enjoy themselves in this context. These increases in fees, which the Government of the Republic had foreseen and which should have entered into force on 1 January 2013, were several million euros higher. I would point out that the fees for waterways are increasing in two orders. I mean, at the first stage, it was agreed that the increase in charges for waterways, which the Government of the Republic had foreseen, would come at a lower angle and enter into force three months later. Its financial value would have been in the order of EUR 4 million and there is already a separate inter-ministerial agreement on this cover. In addition, the Riigikogu, mainly the Economic Affairs Committee, considered it necessary to postpone the processing of specific fees for another three months next year. On the one hand, the State will lose EUR 2 million in additional revenue and, on the other, it can be said that companies will have EUR 2 million in investments or other activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U208	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U209	Thank you. I've got a quick line to start with. In addition to the fact that the IRL and Reform Party have distributed 9.5 million roofing money, there are various movements of money in ministries, including the 2013 increase in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior by 1.3 million, which goes to foundations, NGOs. This is a closed list, so the Riigikogu cannot see exactly where Ken-Mart Vaher puts the money. My question, however, concerns the small budget that the coalition shared, EUR 9.5 million. You said that these are one-off costs and will not come back to 2014 that you will make these small swings in 2013 and 2014 will be forgotten. At the same time, it also includes the salaries of the Vanemuine Theatre. Do the Vanemuine orchestras expect to raise their wages for only one year? Is this a fixed-term wage increase that will be taken away in 2014 or how will it be guaranteed that this raise will remain valid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U210	Thank you. Good question! As always, there are several questions or arguments intertwined on one issue. I'll try to answer that introductory part of yours first. I think there is no small or large budget, there is one budget. If you look at the concrete proposals from the political groups, as has been pointed out earlier, you will see that a large amount of money, two million, will be subsidised, EUR 600000, for example, to reduce the rise in the price of ferry tickets. I wouldn't call big budget lines like you said roofing money. In addition, if you look again, it is possible to see that this line goes on until the information systems are launched and the costs of the Competition Authority. I understand that the leaders of the political groups have done a great deal of work to formalise their proposal. When we come to the main point of your question, the one-off costs, it was true that the question was also raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We also talked to the Ministry of Finance and recorded separately that these were one-off costs. All parties must be aware of this, and if the ministries, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance respectively, consider in the future that they would like to continue to raise wages, that is their next decision. If such decisions have been taken before the final movement of money, no one can have any legitimate expectations. So, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this issue was quite clear and marked.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U211	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U212	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I am moved to ask Mr Mikser's question about the salaries of the orchestras. Perhaps to clarify that, as Tarmo Leinatamm mentioned here, we have social inequality. We have three professional orchestras in the country: the ERSO, the National Opera and the Vanemuine orchestra. As of today, ERSO's salaries are 20% higher, and their workload, which is not stated in this Chamber, is several times lower. On average, ERSO has one concert a week, the National Opera orchestra has eight performances, plus samples. So if the Sots are fighting for social equality, is the proposal to harmonise the salaries of professional orchestras not exactly helping to create this social equality? Is that why the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not supported this proposal? At the same time, Kadri Simson asked the right question as to whether it would be sustainable in the coming years. Can we keep this level so that there is no movement between orchestras like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U213	You can see that you are more familiar with the differentiation of the salaries of different cultural institutions than I am as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There is nothing strange about this either, because this proposal has indeed come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, not from heaven, but from the political groups. I don't know, but I assume with great probability that you were one of the initiators of such an increase, because you have this information. Yes, of course, if there are differences and there is a strong desire to harmonise these differences, then we must discuss and vote. The fact is, however, that there cannot be a legitimate expectation for the coming years. We cannot and do not want to assume commitments that go on over the years and decades. If there is such inequality as you described, it will be localised in 2013, and then it will be a time when ministries will be able to work towards reducing inequality in the future. I'd rather say they're taking a breather now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U214	I see Sven Mikser's got his hand up. Dear Sven Mikser, you would be right to reply if Sven Sester had named your name in his report, but since Imre Sooäär did so in his question, unfortunately, there is no reply. Let's keep going. Please, Mr Mikko, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U215	Thank you very much. I was extremely saddened when the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said with great enthusiasm, one might even say with pride that Norway is financially supporting the institution of our Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. Has the Kingdom of Norway become part of the Republic of Estonia that Sven Sester boasts with Norwegian money in the context of the 2013 budget of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U216	Thank you, Mrs. Marianne Mikko! Words such as showy display, arrogance, and arrogance, which are spoken not at my address but at someone else's, are such tagging words. I've been trying to be constructive. I'm even a little puzzled by this kind of thing. What does pride mean? Rather, I tried to give feedback on the introductory part of your question. With your question, you actually got to a different subject, but you started by not having any money on gender equality. Rather, I wanted to give you an indication of how much money there is now, how much the Estonian state will give, and to give you information that there are also sources of financing coming along.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U217	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U218	Thank you. Good waitress! I was sincerely surprised by your response to Mr Lember when you justified the fees for the waterways. I don't understand it. If, according to the original draft, fees for some groups of ships increased up to eight times and now grow up up to four times, I find it quite cynical to advertise it as a useful decision for seafarers and merchant owners. It must also be said that the whole debate around this draft over a month has been one of the lines of confusion and misunderstandings. My question to you is this: do you think that the adoption of this draft will make Estonia's international competitiveness and business environment worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U219	Thank you. I'll start with your introduction. You said you were messing up the line. You know, I wouldn't say there's a mix-up. I would say that two to three weeks have been extremely incomprehensible, unconstructive work at Riigikogu meetings. I mean, there's no such thing as confusion. Let's be honest, there hasn't been a lot of discussion in that time either. If you look at these famous night sittings in the sense that there has been a lot of talk about it lately, you will see what has taken place in the night sittings. There is no discussion as such in real life. You will see that your proposals are supported at night by two, at least three, maybe five parliamentarians. Your own group does not support the amendments that you yourself have tabled. I'm not bluffing, please look at the results of the vote. The question arises as to whether these amendments have been good or not. Now the substance of the question. Can I see that competitiveness will improve next year compared to other countries? I think we should take a broader look at this. Next year, our unemployment benefits will fall by 1.2%. This leaves more money for both the entrepreneur and the people. If you look at the direction that the Estonian state has maintained and will continue to maintain its balance in the form of a budget, this will increase the confidence to invest in the Estonian state. At the same time, there are examples of old European countries where people have said that maybe they should move away from the country because the tax burden has increased exponentially. I think the Estonian state is competitive in the big picture. Yes, of course, the country can always be made even more competitive, and I think that both the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu are working towards it, but the trend is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U220	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I come back to the question of Priit Toobal concerning the money allocated to NGOs. I would like to remind you that the original budget included a million, plus 300,000, so it's still 130,000. I think that, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you certainly know which NGOs have been allocated money here, and we would really like to know that. If you don't know, tell me how we're gonna find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U222	Thank you. We are not talking about an amendment then, but about the budget as a whole. No, the Committee on Monetary Affairs does not know where the ministries want to allocate 1.3 million next year, in this case the Ministry of the Interior. I'm not sure the Homeland Department knows that yet, maybe he does. But I imagine the best thing to do is ask the Home Office. The Committee on Finance has never taken on such a role that it requires precise information on all budget lines. I would point out, as an example, that the State has allocated money for legal expenses, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs then specifically wants to know which costs. Or, for example, the state has allocated money for planning, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs wants to know what specific plans the money is going to be. This degree of precision does not fall within the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If any of the members of the Riigikogu have a separate wish, you should contact either the Finance Committee, which passes this wish on to a particular ministry, or also directly to the Ministry. Ministries certainly have a much higher level of detail in their documents, which is natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U223	Please, Mr Lember, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U224	Thank you. I will continue on the same subject. In Question Time, the Minister for Regional Affairs was asked what he was planning to do with the 30000 for administrative reform, and he owed the answer. He said the Riigikogu gave this money, and we'll see where we put it, so maybe we can find some project manager. The same question is also the case for the Ministry of Justice: EUR 50000 for the preparation of the state reform. This is the same as the additional money granted by the Riigikogu. Do you have any idea what kind of state reform is going to be, which direction or what the Ministry of Justice is going to do with this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U225	Thank you. You may not have been in the Chamber of the Riigikogu for a while, because you repeat the question almost literally. But it's okay, I'll take it. This money is intended, as far as the Committee on Monetary Affairs has information, for a measure to strengthen local government. Does this mean that a separate project manager will be recruited, or does it mean that the money will be given as an additional measure to local authorities, who, for example, want to join, this is certainly already a matter for the administration of a particular ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U226	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is driven by the 2010 Supreme Court ruling, where both the state and local authorities were obliged to review their tasks, the functions, so that it is clear at local level what the tasks of the local government are to do. In the context of local governments, did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss these issues in the draft budget for the following year, and have we come closer to fulfilling the obligation imposed by the Supreme Court ruling on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U228	Thank you. Good question. It would be easy to answer that no, so specific we didn't discuss. And if I said so, I wouldn't lie to you. But I will try to open up the content of your question a little longer. At the last meeting of the Committee on Finance with the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments, which took place a week and a half ago, we did not discuss this particular issue. Rather, such a point of pain and discussion was the so-called 60% credit limit. However, in the light of this judgment, the State prepared a document last year. I do not remember the exact document and it is not specifically related to the budget, but I think you certainly have the document yourself. In short, there is a document that has very clearly fixed what the functions of the local government are, and they also have 'financial side' numbers written behind them. So it is very clear what the local government has to do and, accordingly, the state must, of course, finance their implementation. Such a full review has been made. If I am not mistaken, this document was led either by the Ministry of the Interior or by the Minister of Regional Affairs. But the truth is, in the context of the 2013 budget, this issue has not come up topically again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U229	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U230	Thank you. Good answer! I would not have asked, but since I asked you something before and you answered me something else, I would also remind you that, yes, the increase in the charges for waterways was a long debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I also recall that the IRL changed the rapporteur from the Commission in the meantime. Perhaps it would be incorrect if I were to ask you why the IRL did so, what reasons were there. But I am now firmly saying in this Chamber that rising charges for waterways will not only give rise to repercussions for the maritime and transit sectors, but also for other sectors of the economy, including tourism. My question is about this specific draft: will it hinder the business environment and competitiveness of Estonia next year and in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U231	Thank you. I think that any tax increase that may be at all is always bad for someone, someone restrictive, whatever tax increase we are talking about, including excise duties. When we raise tobacco excise, smokers say that more money is being taken out of their pockets. Similarly, there are charges relating to business, in this case possible charges for navigation. Of course, any tax increase always complicates the activity of a particular business sphere. Here we must certainly look at the whole picture, as I tried to convey to you in my first reply. What do I mean by that? Firstly, we need to look at the positions of our immediate neighbours on one, two or three issues. Look at our other fiscal policy decisions, starting from the fact that reinvested earnings are not subject to a separate tax, up to several other tax paragraphs. Gotta look at the big picture! I would say yes, on the one hand, the tax increase will worsen the environment. On the other hand, the decisions that have been made today, especially those that have come from the ministries here, and those that are going from here to the President's desk, are actually a little different things. If we now say that the government's revenue in the budget is falling, then that means that somebody will have that money in their pockets, let's say, in this case, in the business of this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U232	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U233	Thank you. Good waitress! When discussing the budget, which is called the most important political document of the year, you and I, who you have been the speaker of the government coalition, have exchanged questions and answers, and I suppose you have made this budget clear to your own details. Can you, in general and in summary, now at third reading, say what will be done with this budget in 2013 in the country? Which way is it going?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U234	Thank you. I'm really trying to sum up in general. If I was asked that way, I would be able, as I understand it, to keep the answer to the question unlimited for a very long time, to read one part of the positive side of the budget, and the other half would read sometime in the future. I hope that every member of the Riigikogu will find a positive side of this: who will stress a more balanced budget, who will stress more that it will be possible to obtain free higher education next year. I would say that one of the key words could be to increase social benefits. Let us recall the same discussion that we have had with you on children's benefits and which could still be opened. You, the good questioner, and your party have wanted to raise child support even more forcefully and widely. Looking at the period when these subsidies have not been raised, I think that steps have now been taken in this direction. I think that social security will certainly increase the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U235	Please, Mr Randver, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U236	Thank you, Mr President. You were talking about meetings with nationwide alliances. Municipalities believe that their budget is independent, but they have expressed in one letter fear that their budget will be converted into part of the revenue side of the state budget, as well as into part of the state budget. Is there any reason for this fear, and did you discuss it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U237	Thank you. We discussed this issue, and it was up here as a question at second reading. We have asked for a comment on this from both our Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. I'm not going to quote it to you again. In my second reading, I have already quoted the position of the Ministry of Finance, which gave an overview of the matter in the legally correct language. However, as a summary, I can say that there is a clear position: the internal regulation of local authorities and their right to self-determination will not be reduced. It is rather a group account in the sense of transfer: the money comes into the account and is then passed on to the local authorities. That is a very clear opinion from several lawyers. And if it is necessary to pass the courts, for example, in order for the court to say that yes, it is not a contradiction between one law or another, then they must be passed. But right now we're starting to think that for these fears, as if money could suddenly stay stuck and not reach local governments, all parties have said that this can't be the case, the money will be passed on. And when asked if it is possible that the right to self-determination has been reduced, no, the right to self-determination has not been reduced. I think it's a good thing that such a question and such an answer has been that such things will then also exist later in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U238	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U239	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I saw that Indrek Saarel had a nice question, he told you to please praise yourself. You found that the first thing to praise yourself for is that in 2013 it is a balanced budget. That is my question: will Estonia have a balanced budget in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U240	Thank you. Look how interesting it is. It is difficult to have a constructive dialogue if you put words in my mouth as a questioner. Watch and read the verbatim later. I made it very clear in my reply that some may have a balanced budget which they want to highlight. For some, it could be a different thing or a third thing. I did not say that this was the most important thing for me, although I say that it is very important. I pointed out in the final phase of the answer to this question that, for me, perhaps the most important is the money directed at the social side. Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth! Your main question was whether the budget was balanced or not. The country is working to balance the budget. Structurally, we are already in balance with 0.1% in 2013, nominally, we will be in deficit next year with 0.7%. The difference between structural and nominal is that various one-off costs and revenues are taken away. The structural figure is actually even more important because it shows the direction you're going to. As a matter of fact, if a house is sold one year and received EUR 100 million for it, which is paid for, for example, by someone's salary increase, then next year it is unlikely that it will again be possible to sell such a house. Therefore, such one-off costs and one-off revenues are generally taken out in order to find out where the country is going. If you look at the vision of the current government not only by 2013, but until 2015, i.e. for the whole period, as stated in the coalition agreement, you will see that the state and government want not only to go into the structural surplus that they are able to do next year, but also to go into the nominal surplus. I believe that in the next few years we will already see a situation where our real income exceeds our real costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U241	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U242	Thank you. If I understand correctly, a good waitress, you have ended your answer to my previous question in such a way that this budget could be called an increase in social security, that it is the main objective of this budget. I have to say here, however, that, when we look at the general trends that exist in society, it is not only perceived, but also the various measurements show that society does not very much believe in it, because the support of the government and the belief that the government is doing the right things have recently decreased considerably. Consequently, this budget does not sound credible for some reason. But I'm coming up with a particular thing. How is the increase in social security with this objective just in line with the surge in electricity prices next year and the overall forecast that the price race will start next year? How do these things come into line and what measures have been taken to reduce the price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U243	Thank you. Look at the whole picture. Certainly, the Estonian state cannot put its hands on what is happening on the world market, either to stop the rise in the price of oil or electricity. World market prices are not a national competence. If we look at the measures taken by the state, I can say that once we have processed the state budget law, we will also be dealing with a number of other drafts. One draft is, for example, the reduction of renewable energy charges for the same electricity. We clearly foresee that they should decrease. This is the same money that ultimately remains in the pockets of Estonian citizens. If you go beyond electricity, you can say that the various subsidies, child benefits, as well as the increase in pensions, the increase in public sector wages, are all actually part of this sense of social security. I think that a step towards an increased sense of security next year has, in any case, been taken with this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U244	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U245	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will continue with the same subject. You have repeatedly said that next year's state budget is very good: it provides people with a sense of social security, all those waiting for a raise in wages will get it, we will continue to succeed at European Union level. It can be concluded that any voter who comes to meet you on the street is shaking your hand and should say: thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for such a good budget. Yet, it speaks of life beyond the walls of our house, something else. So what is going wrong with us in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U246	Thank you. First of all, I just want to say that I don't need to be thanked. I think that all those parties who have contributed to the budgetary process must be thanked. After all, hundreds, if not thousands, have been involved in the compilation of this budget. It will be put together in ministries and for much longer than the months that we have in our hands. I think a lot more people need to be thanked. I would rather be the one who is trying here today to give an overview of what was said in the Commission. And, as you have noted, we have had a discussion at first, second and today, at third reading, and we have gone beyond what has been said in the Commission. We have created such a philosophical base to discuss various proposals and visions. These issues often extend beyond the state budget and may not even have a direct impact on it. Inara, your question, too, eventually went beyond that context. True story, I would not respond here. Rather, we could say that we did not open up the issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in this context. However, it is certainly possible to come to the floor as a representative of a group and give an overview of what is expected of this budget and of the future activities relating to both expenditure and revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U247	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U248	Thank you. You mentioned that this budget could be summed up as a budget to increase social security. It is recalled that during the budgetary procedure, we have had a situation where it was agreed with health professionals that the extra money would go to both ambulances and residents. And in order to find this money, it was decided to significantly reduce the increase in unemployment benefits already promised to the unemployed. Didn't you in the committee want to find another source of cover for it? It is remembered that the Social Democrats offered the roof money distributed politically across Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U249	Thank you. You see, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is dealing with the changes that the various committees of the Riigikogu offer to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would remind you, my good colleague, that the change on a particular issue is actually in the procedure in another committee, in particular, if I am not mistaken, it is the Committee on Social Affairs that is dealing with this particular draft, and in their vision it has been that today the increase in unemployment benefit would be 35%. They have also proposed this by processing this draft and have formulated a corresponding amendment for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Finance has seen that emergency services and resident doctors, in accordance with previous agreements concluded outside the Committee on Monetary Affairs, require additional funding for these services. As the Committee on Social Affairs has also found sources of cover in accordance with its own procedures, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not encountered problems at the moment in rejecting this draft or not voting on this amendment. If you now look at the possible financial decisions made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the underlying documents on which it has been based, you will see that there is money not only for resident doctors and ambulance services, there is also money for needs-based child support. It also targets money to reduce navigation charges mentioned earlier, etc. These decisions are actually much, much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U250	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U251	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I was prompted to ask this question in a recent discussion about the fact that the budget is almost balanced with the nibin-nabin. It's not exactly balanced. I have the tables ahead, but just so I don't look at the table wrong, I'll ask you, as a specialist, who is better informed: what is the amount of loans to be granted in the next financial year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U252	Thank you. I'm telling you the truth, I don't have it in my head because there are dozens of these tables, as you can see. Next, perhaps you are asking which reserves, for example, have the money been placed in this particular case. I don't have all the numbers in my head, and I don't think you're expecting it. With such a precise, very specific question as to what the total ratio of all our loans is, we can clarify the answer more in the ministries. However, I can say, as a percentage of GDP, that Estonia has had the lowest loan-to-GDP ratio in the European Union. This figure is now increasing mainly in relation to previously processed ESM payments. We were in the order of 6-7%, and if I'm not mistaken, it should rise to almost 11%, at least maybe eventually to 12%. And to have a better picture, it is worth talking about Europe. In Europe, I guess, if I'm not mistaken, there was an average of 83% last year, and at this point the average has reached 90%. It gives a position where Estonia is in Europe in terms of its loan capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U253	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U254	Dear colleague, help me understand the logic of the sports that we are dealing with are different, so I think the logic is a little different. Bringing the ship to a port in Estonia now costs something and it had to pay more from next year. This number changed in the Riigikogu and you now say that the fee will decrease. At the same time, the government presented a state budget where unemployment benefits were to be 50% of the minimum wage. Now this change, it's 37%, and then you say the unemployment benefit is going to increase. Help me figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U255	Thank you. Good Eiki! The question is always when you look half full, whether it's half full or half empty. Both answers are correct, half-glass is both half-full and half-empty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U256	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U257	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I wouldn't have asked you a question, but for the sake of the verbatim, I definitely want to correct something. You have said a lot about the need-based increase in child support. There are no needs-based child benefits that are increasing. Increased family benefits. That's one. I understand very well that the hard work of praising the coalition cannot be left to others. You have done very well with this praise, and there are certainly a few things in the budget that we are all happy about in this Chamber. My question, which is also directly related to the budget, is this. The need-based family allowance is currently going to the family from the third child, etc. Do you think it's quite right that a family that formalises income support may not receive needs-based family support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U258	Thank you. I would like to put aside the questions concerning my personal opinion right now. Seriously, I'm not expressing my personal views on this speaker board today, I've been throwing more and more of this door anyway. But, good Helmen, the whole discussion of necessity is actually a separate issue, all this matter, whether we call this support child support or family support, which way the country should go. You have foreseen in your amendments to increase this money vigorously, perhaps some EUR 50 million. I'm excluding the source of cover right now, this source of cover has been partly even bigger, in fact, it's taking money out of people's wallets. This discussion, however, whether all Estonian citizens, mainly their families, should receive this specific support, will not end with this budget procedure, but will continue in the future. I think this discussion should go on. We may have different concepts here, and as far as I've been able to feel it, we do have different concepts right now. The opinion of today's coalition has been, as the word 'need-based' says, that support should rather go to those who need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U259	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U260	Thank you. I was moved to ask for this little mystery that arose in connection with the unemployment allowance and the payment for waterways. In one case, there was, like, one approach to ascension and decline, the other. You explained it so that it depends on how someone looks at whether the glass is half full or half empty. Can you explain which of these two is half full of glass and in which case half empty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U261	Thank you. I think that this question is rhetorical and you certainly do not expect me to answer my philosophical approach. I'd rather look at this again than at the whole thing. When we talk about navigation charges, the true story, in the budget that came to the Riigikogu, were considerably higher thresholds, if you could say so, it provided for considerably more funds to be taken away from businesses or for higher taxes to be paid. During the procedure, the Riigikogu made changes, reducing the angle of climb and postponing the specific date. Regarding the rate of unemployment benefit, yes, one can of course say that the draft came here with a 50% increase proposal. However, I understand that, at the same time, the Ministry, the Social Affairs Committee and also those parties who actively negotiated during the strike, an agreement was reached which was finally formulated in black and white in the specific draft that we are dealing with today. If the majority of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has found that this is the approach that we should follow and this is the source of cover, then it is up to us to decide whether or not to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U262	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U263	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! We have the same approach and the same ideas in a lot of things, but I certainly cannot agree with one thing. I want to say that income support is the support of the most difficult people in Estonia, and if the children of this family do not receive needs-based family support, then something is very bad. I'm not expecting an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U264	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, as a representative of the Group of Mrs Iva Isamaa and Mrs Res Publica, my colleague from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U265	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The state budget for the coming year will be an exit budget. For more than several years, it is possible to take advantage of the benefits of new economic growth and to find solutions to the most pressing issues, alongside continuous cuts and savings. As a result, wages for public sector employees will increase in 2013. Teachers, cultural workers, police officers, rescuers, doctors, defence forces are the ones whose wage arrangements are adjusted within areas according to the priorities of the industry. The proposed draft budget envisaged an increase of 4,4% in the public sector, with a total cost of EUR 29,3 million. It is now clear that internal restructuring has resulted in additional funding in several areas. For example, next year, an additional €7.5 million from the teacher's wage subsidy comes directly from the extra money allocated on the proposal of the Government of the Republic. The remaining 8.3 million is divided as follows: 4 million euros from the education allowance reserve, 3.8 million euros from the supplementary training budget and 0.5 million euros from the reduction in the unemployment contribution rate. The allocation of these resources to the salaries of teachers does not lead to additional financial obligations for municipalities, as some people have said. Nor will there be a reduction in the volume of continuing training for teachers, as these costs will be covered in the future by European Union funds. The Ministry of Education and Research, together with the municipalities, also wishes to seek solutions to the problem of support specialists who have been partly paid out of teachers' salaries so far. Hopefully, next year it will be possible to provide support to local governments here, using the Ministry's budget balance for this year. In the case of family benefits, much has been said about the 19-euro universal allowance for the first and second children of the family and from the third child to the 57-euro allowance. Unfortunately, it has been overlooked that starting with the second child, the family receives a tax refund of EUR 30 per month. Now that Estonian entrepreneurs are looking again for new jobs, the aim of the person must be to go to work and the state must provide the greatest possible support to enable him to receive the necessary refresher and retraining. However, in addition to the above, child benefit for all children will increase from the third child of the family onwards and the need-based support will be paid to the first and second child of the family. Next year, higher education without tuition fees will start and new students will receive needs-based education support to support it. It is true that one or the other measure does not take away the need for students to exert themselves strongly, and it is worth not being upset by the politicians who offer them to speak for students. It must not be forgotten that these support measures also require the taxpayer to make a serious effort to know that every capable and motivated youth of a small nation must have the opportunity to acquire education. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U266	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U267	The new year will start to take into account and pay a parental pension for all children. This is our clear message: raising children is important and a work recognised by the state. Regionally, it is certainly important to increase the money for repairing local roads by 60%, the national programme for the construction of secondary schools and the payment of agricultural subsidies at the maximum allowed rate. I also consider the changes that were prepared for the third reading of the budget to be important: additional support for doctors, relief officers and volunteer rescue officers, additional money to slow down the rise in the price of the ferry ticket and slower launch of maritime safety charges, support for entrepreneurship training and the Cancer League of young people, support for the national organisation of pensioners, as well as support for objects that were approved by members of the Riigikogu on the basis of proposals from local communities. Additional funding for education, medicine, the elderly, sports, culture and heritage conservation. Yes, these are our political choices. A few words about the course of the budget procedure. On 27 September, when the government handed over the draft budget, a number of good wishes were made in this Chamber. Mr Ansip concluded his speech by saying: I call on you to support the budget proposed by the government and I would like to have a constructive debate with you. Kadri Simson said: 'I hope that the state budget will be treated constructively in this Chamber. ' The speaker said as his final wish: 'I hope that the budgetary procedure in the Riigikogu will be thorough and constructive. ' I apologise to the Riigikogu for not knowing how the Centre Party could interpret my wish to deal with the draft in such a strange way. No, ladies and gentlemen, an in-depth debate does not mean as many hours as possible and a ultimatum spiced procedure! The budget of the Republic of Estonia is fair and supports the growth of family welfare. It can be handled in daylight and without ten-minute thought cramps. I would like everyone to understand that with this budget, the growth of the state's revenue has been used to maximise the income of our people, to support regions and to value education, and at the same time it has been done in a prudent manner, within the limits of the country's real possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U268	Thank you very much, Mr Iva. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sven Mikser, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, However, by loving orchestra music and even more passionately equal opportunities, I would like to point out that, in answering my two questions, the Commission's rapporteur repeatedly used the word 'threat', but never the word 'orchester'. It was not until today that Mr Tarmo Leinatamm brought this word to the debate. I am sincerely grateful to him for this, because that is how I received the answer to my question, and the rapporteur from the Commission also learned something that he, as rapporteur for the Commission, might have known before. All the more so since this amendment was based on a letter sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Reform Party, in which I dare say, the chairman of the committee is just like Muhv Eno Rau's children's book 'Naxitrallid', being both the sender and the recipient of this letter. Our sitting government is increasingly accused of being arrogant, not involving opposition or society, not considering alternatives when making decisions and living in the faith of its own infallibility. It is not only the opposition in Parliament, but also the public who are complaining about it. Therefore, it is probably not to be surprised that this is also reflected in the budget on which we will be voting in a moment's time. This is reflected both in the content of this budget and in the way in which we deal with all the empty days and nights that we have spent together. Now that these arduous discussions have reached the final stage, it is appropriate to ask what has changed in these few months. I dare say, not much in the substance. However, there has been a slight change in the vocabulary of the members of the government. For example, the Minister of Education is no longer convinced that the pay of all teachers will continue to increase to an acceptable extent. The minister's work is said to be done and no longer dependent on him. But is the job really done? The Social Democrats believe that the reasoning that leads to the conclusion that some teachers' salaries may not rise as much as allowed, and that because their schools have not yet been shut down, is simply cynical. There is also little talk about the grand reform of children's benefits. With their amendments, the Social Democrats tried to give the populist draft of the government allies the right act and face, but our proposals were passed over to the coalition in their own way. The consequence is that we will have families who, due to their low income and unavoidable costs, are entitled to income support but who are not entitled to "need-to-need" family support. There is no logical explanation for such a thing. The only explanation is the desire of the allies of government to blow the trumpets, which is that time or perhaps the mind was not really there to deal with the problem and the money didn't want to give, because it's not really there. And more. I am not going to name ministers here, but at some point a number of cabinet members raised their tails with a promise to transfer the unemployment allowance to 50% of the minimum wage. Now EUR 145 has become EUR 101 per month, and the members of the government coalition want to pin it on ambulance workers and residents. It's faceless. All the more so in order to meet the legitimate expectations of ambulance workers and residents, there were others, such as the option offered by social democrats to finance these costs instead of the so-called political roofing money. In the run-up to the third reading of the budget, the coalition, on the basis of its political preferences, divided ten million into 'roof money'. For some incomprehensible reason, some coalition politician tried to call this step in response to opposition demands. Where's the compromise and the response? Where is the increase in universal child support, the necessary wage increase for teachers, cultural workers, policemen and rescuers, and the redress of the injustice done to local governments? I find it cynical that the desire to tarnish the responsibility for sharing their political contributions to the entire Riigikogu is also cynical. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U270	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U271	Yes, it is true that some kindergarten may have long-awaited new doors and windows. That's great! But if the coalition forgot for a moment its party interests in the forthcoming municipal elections and thought a little bit state-manly, then they too should admit that the national kindergarten programme proposed by the Social Democrats would be of great benefit and help than the individual political roofing money. Finally, health care, which has been too long overlooked by the government for the serious and deep problems that lie ahead, but which certainly should have attracted the attention of coalition politicians in relation to the strike of doctors and nurses. However, when we look at the budget, we do not see that the need to take fundamental steps to review the financing of health care has reached the consciousness of the rulers. The Social Democratic Party Group, through its amendments, wanted to increase child support, support the creation of kindergarten places, respond in a clear way to the demands of police, border guards, teachers and cultural staff. We also put forward sources of cover for this, even slightly improving the balance of the government sector and saving reserves. Anyone else want to talk about Greece? It is true that this budget did not improve the content of the Riigikogu during the long procedure, but it did receive its proper name during the procedure The Social Democrats will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U272	Thank you. As a representative of the party of the Jaanus Tamkivi Reform Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U273	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As every year, the most important document of the year to be approved by the Riigikogu is the state budget of the coming year in the normal time, in mid-December the final vote in the large hall of Toompea Castle. However, this year's budget procedure was different, passed over stones and stumps and quite several times disappeared a long day's journey into the night, got out in the morning and continued after a short day with the same momentum the following evening. There was more than an agreement this year, and, let me be clear, there was an obstruction of Parliament's work. This last one is, yes, a perfectly promised and democratic move for the opposition, which will be used if nothing likes and there are no votes needed for decision-making. But the allowed moves can also be used both sensibly and unreasonablely in Parliament's work. If you recall what happened in the last month, it is certainly unwise for one party, the coalition, to spend the night on Toompea, the opposition leaves only a few or three people who push buttons and take endless breaks while others nap at home. If there is opposition and opposition, then fine, but not meaningless votes with the result, for example, 45: 3. I would also like to remind you of the pictures that appear in the press, which give the impression that the Riigikogu is a buffet beer hall where the actual work takes place. They do not contribute to the improvement of the Riigikogu's reputation. We respect the Estonian people who have given us the mandate, then perhaps they will also respect us! But the truth is still in the eye of the viewer. On behalf of one third of the members of the Riigikogu, the Reform Party Group, I would like to confirm that the budget for next year has become sustainable and sensible, as always in the best faith, but the compromise expressed in harsh monetary figures between our opportunities and our needs. As always, the compromise to make sure that in a year's time, when we process the new budget, our opportunities and needs will be better met. Next year, you know, wages are going up, pensions are going up, the tax burden is going down. I would particularly like to draw attention to the rise in family benefits in the new year. In Estonia, we are approaching the fact that family benefits paid from the state budget are higher for families who need more help. We want to reduce the number of families where children live in poverty, and studies confirm that the current reform will do this well. As I speak on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to recall our position: Estonia must not become a helpless country where receiving subsidies is more useful than working. The low tax burden contributes much better to people's creativity, industriousness and the survival of entrepreneurship than high taxes and generous subsidies to all. The opposition's attacks on the 2013 budget plan were fierce. But there is no harm without good; in the light of these attacks, the coalition has had the opportunity to review and adjust a number of budgetary decisions once again. However, I would like to call on the opposition to have a greater sense of cooperation in the future. It has always been the custom in Estonia that a common table can be reached through the door and not through the wall. Of course, here we must thank the government and, of course, our character finance minister, who in Europe has worked hard with his team to protect Estonia's interests, so that all the numbers are in the thick budget book where they must be, even when there is sometimes a feeling that there really is no more bother. On behalf of the Government Coalition and the Reform Party, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the work that has been done in committees, political groups and meetings with voters during the completion and processing of the budget. Our finances are in order, the economic future thanks to the well-being of the Estonian people is hopeful. We can be proud of that. The last sentence certainly contains no surprise for you: the Reform Party Group will vote in favour of the 2013 state budget. I call on everyone else to do the same! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U274	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Kadri Simson Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U275	Ladies and gentlemen, You have noticed that the President of the Reform Party Group may have called on us to have a greater sense of association. According to my recollection, a government alliance called itself a co-sensory coalition. It was the coalition that raised taxes, including VAT, and reduced social benefits, lost funeral and retiring support and seriously reduced the income base of the municipalities. I think that this kind of cooperation is definitely not needed by the Estonian state either today or next year. Can we be united in the situation where Estonia is the country with the fastest price increase in the euro zone this year? And since the MPs of the IRL and Reform Party decided to be inactive in mitigating the rise in electricity prices ahead of the new year, we are likely to remain the euromaster of the price increase in 2013. Just today, Eesti Pank came up with a forecast where inflation for next year has been seen to be higher. Against the background of these price increases, the rise in food prices and the increase in home costs are particularly painful, hitting people whose income is on average or below the average. I've met a lot of people in the last few weeks. Last week in Pärnu, pensioners said that two years ago, when their pension was 4200 kroons, they came out with it, but now that their pension is 300 euros, they live in clear deprivation. For them, prices will also increase in January, February and March next year, but the pension is expected to rise only on 1 April, and then it will not come with the budget for next year, as the full indexation is foreseen. On the contrary, pension increases have been curtailed. The rise in food prices also knocks off schools that have so far bravely offered their children a free, warm school lunch. Children who have free school lunch is the only warm meal a day will be added more and more. These children will not be reduced, although we will hear news of Estonia's remarkable success story and economic growth. School leaders tell such a story that they know in their schools, in small country schools, children who come to school hungry in the morning. If so far it was possible to pinch the school's food money to give warm tea and porridge to the children from the most difficult families in the morning, now no more money will come out. The school leaders also have the concern that there will be a wage increase for teachers for the coming year, but the control number reported to local authorities shows that in many areas there will not be enough money for a minimum wage increase as real education money decreases. There would be more problems to highlight in the state budget next year. We have tried to prevent a number of major problems with our own solutions. We made 96 amendments for the second reading of the budget in the Riigikogu and nine amendments for the third reading. None of them were supported, all of them voted down. This excuse for voting down those opposition amendments that are not correct is not true. We had a number of tax reductions, such as the proposal to lower the tax on indoor heating and electricity, because the rise in home costs is particularly harder for people who are able to cope. In response, coalition politicians started to walk around Estonia and say that the Centre Party wants to raise tax to all people through progressive income tax. Where do you live, where all people earn more than 1500 euros a month? However, in the case of progressive income tax, all people with an income of 1500 or less would have a tax either at the current level or would fall, as a result of a reduction in the cost of indoor heating and electricity, it would be precisely these people who would gain the most. We have reached the final stage of reading the 2013 budget today, and there are probably enough votes here that this budget will also be adopted. Then it will be possible to stand up and the coalition ambassadors will give a hurrah of applause, but in the light of the latest news, I absolutely cannot understand what it is to rejoice about. It is possible that coalition ambassadors have not followed the news due to the rapid pace of work in recent weeks, but on 6 December the news "Estonian Energia raised the price' was told that if yesterday the 12-month contract with the single tariff meter was offered by Eesti Energia at 5.69 cents in kilowatt-hours, the price of the same offer is now 5.78 cents. A week later, on 11 December, the new news "Estonian Energia welcomed the free market with price increases." Today we have reached a situation where the annual fixed price contract costs 5,94 euro cents of electricity in kilowatt-hours with VAT. The current price on the captive market, including VAT, is 3.78 euro cents, the basic tariff rises by 57.1% and you want to clap on that?! Together with the 13.3% increase in Elering's network charges, the electricity bill of the Estonian people will increase by 21% next year and the higher domestic costs will be added to the increase in the price of electricity in small and medium-sized enterprises. They too have to sell their goods and services more expensive. As a result of these night sessions, we all probably know in this Chamber, and the whole society knows that tax rulings can prevent this price increase. Tax decisions would improve Estonia's economic environment next year. So the biggest deficit in the 2013 state budget is not to absorb the rise in electricity prices. In a series of night sessions, the Centre Party tried to make it clear to the government parties that the increase in electricity prices could be mitigated by the state budget for next year. If you say that there is no consultation and let us be reasonable, the work of the Riigikogu is not reasonable if the chain of command comes from the government, the coalition can only distribute its roofing money by a few thousand euros and nothing else basically changes in the budget. This is a tearing of the role of the Riigikogu! The Centre Party has been open and prepared for compromises throughout the budgetary process, but unfortunately compromises can only be made if both parties are prepared to do so. I would like to thank the group's fellow Members who were willing to take advantage of all our legal possibilities to mitigate the rise in electricity prices. And although there is no fiscal relief for price increases today, it is clear in this Chamber and in society as a whole that it is possible to do so through tax rulings, and tomorrow we will hand over a proposal to reduce electricity excise duty again. Our electricity excise duty today is 4.5 times higher than that required in the European Union. When we talk about reasonableness and insanity, it is unreasonable to increase these taxes unbridledly, which make it difficult for people who earn little already. The Centre Party Group cannot support a state budget that will not ease the rising electricity prices for our people next year. The Centre Party Group tells you that although you are adopting today a budget that has many disadvantages and which has missed the opportunity to mitigate the impact of these disadvantages on the people of Estonia, in the new year we will, however, push the price of electricity down with a new boost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U276	Thank you very much. With this we have negotiated, I will close the negotiations. We have come to the examination of the amendments. This bill has 16 amendments and we will review them all one by one. Amendment 1, made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Amendment 2, made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 3, made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the commission responsible, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Amendment 5 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Amendment 6 is from the Centre Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Amendment 7 is from the Centre Party Group; the lead committee has not taken account of it. Amendment 8 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Amendment 9 is from the Centre Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Amendment 10 is from the Centre Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has been disregarded. Amendment 12 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Amendment 13 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has been disregarded. Amendment 15 is from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. All 16 amendments have been examined. We shall proceed to the final vote on the draft law. Very respected Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft State Budget Act 278 of 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 37, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the debate on today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U277	The third item is the third reading of the draft law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants and the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Courts. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Then we shall proceed to the final vote. Since this bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27. Let's get to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants and the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Courts 279. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U278	Agenda item 4 is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. As this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will carry out a verification of the presence. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check. 73 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 28. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic 281. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 18 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U279	Agenda item 5, Third reading of the Act amending the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Local Government Organisation Act 311 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a bill on your desk that's probably gonna be the law today. This is a draft Act 311 amending the Financial Management Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. This is another law where the government has rolled over the local government, the opinion of local governments has been completely ignored. The draft law amending the Financial Management Act and the Local Government Organisation Act extends the current limit on the increase in net debt from 2012 in accordance with the principles set out in the State Budget Strategy 2013-2016. The purpose of the extension of the restriction is to ensure the financial stability of local authorities in a volatile economic environment and to avoid potential financial risks. The fundamental error of the law is that it is recommended that the restriction be maintained in all municipalities, regardless of their economic situation or capacity. In this way, the state is holding back development in several municipalities, the potential of which would enable the necessary investments to be made, which would temporarily lead to a debt burden of over 60%. As you know, we have recently read that some Estonian cities may be deprived of investments in street lighting. We believe that this percentage should not be rigid and should result from the actual capacity of the local government. Today is the right day to recall that the Act on the financial management of the local government unit adopted by the Riigikogu in September 2010 decided that in the future, municipalities with a higher than average solvency can borrow up to 100% of the budget. However, in autumn 2011, the government proposed to postpone the increase of the net debt burden on local authorities by one year, i.e. until 2013. Now, one month before the beginning of 2013, we have before us a draft law which would be adopted to decide that the net indebtedness of any municipality should not rise by more than 60%, at least until the end of 2016. The reason for this decision is strange. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the aim of the amendments is to ensure the financial stability of local authorities in a volatile economic environment, to avoid possible financial risks and to improve the fiscal position of the general government. I do not understand how the Government of the Republic can at one point talk about Estonia's rapid economic growth and welfare-enhancing national budgets and, at the same time, make statements that raise doubts as to whether the economic crisis has passed or is yet to come. Sadly, the government again makes big and long-term decisions on its own and does not take into account the views of representatives of local governments. The Managing Director of the Estonian Association of Municipalities said that in the negotiations between local governments and government on the 2013 state budget, both sides wanted to end the loan limit in this year. But later, it was decided differently in the back room. The basic logic states that it is important to find a compromise that is satisfactory for all parties to the various positions. For example, the maximum permissible debt burden could gradually increase in more economically able municipalities, initially by at least 10 to 20%. However, how must municipalities who have difficulties in fulfilling their obligations under law, for example, in situations where the population is growing rapidly and the law requires them to build day-care centres? I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U281	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U282	The reform party and the IRL government are approaching the financial situation of local governments from a completely wrong perspective. A positive decision was taken that the debt burden on local authorities should not rise because it is feared that local authorities will not be able to meet their loan commitments. Then why the word "municipality" at all? At the same time, local government revenues have been repeatedly cut in recent years, which clearly makes it difficult for local governments to fulfil their obligations. More specifically, two local taxes were abolished, the income tax allocated to local authorities was reduced, and the loss of income resulting from the tax exemption of the land under home is not covered by other receipts despite the promises. The decisions taken in the additional budget for 2009 reduced the proportion of income tax paid by individuals to local authorities from 11,93% to 11,4%. The law exempting homeowners from land tax was adopted in haste. It is absurd that the state does not fulfil its promise to compensate local authorities for the loss of income. The laws of the Republic of Estonia allow local governments to introduce six taxes: advertising tax, road and street closure tax, motor vehicle tax, animal housing tax, amusement tax and parking fee. In the last five years, between 2007 and 2011, no municipality used motor vehicle tax or amusement tax. The animal tax and boat tax were introduced in the municipalities of 1 to 3. It can therefore be said that local authorities have only three real local taxes, which represent only 1% of the total tax revenue of the municipality's budget. It is clear that today's administrative arrangements, including municipal funding, require clear and fundamental changes. We need a new system of local governments, which means both administrative reform and local tax reform. In a situation where the state's financial reserves are decreasing and the loans are increasing, the state's financial balance cannot be achieved at the expense of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U283	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Eiki Nestor. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U284	Mr President, I certainly do not need any extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U285	Got it. Let's stay five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U286	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a law prepared in the previous Riigikogu. In my opinion, he was baked here for three years and in the end remained only the title of that local government financial management law, and the sections of the numbers. All of the content changed and in a frosted consensus eventually he was grinded as much. Even then, the most difficult place to limit the debt burden on the municipalities was how much to limit it. Difficult times, understood and granted an exception: only for a short period of time 60%. And then everybody, take responsibility and do your job, like the law says. Now we are extending this time again, and I have rightly asked the Commission what we will then do with these local government leaders. It's like some kind of training: you can take it, but maybe you can't, but we still can't. After all, you could change that number, you know, maybe 60 is the wrong number, maybe there must be another number, maybe the number that remained in the main text of the law is wrong. Then make some new sure order, do something that people can count on when they're doing their job! Since this power union has a nice habit of putting beautiful headlines on the law, let me have that too. This law here is the law of local government fooling around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U287	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and we will prepare for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on the Financial Management of a Local Government Unit initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government 311. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U288	Agenda item 6, Third reading of Bill 283 of the Law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's open the negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Kallov Kallo Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U289	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The coalition has just adopted the 2013 State Budget Act, which turned the 2013 state budget into a law. As Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, who answered questions in Question Time, confirmed in this Chamber, the State Budget Act is one of the most political laws. It contains only the vision of the ruling coalition of the existence of the state, and any other opinion is not welcome in a mild expression. This is also confirmed by the fact that none of the opposition's amendments were taken into account in the budgetary procedure. Since this is a well - known and well - known truth, it must be taken and accepted in the light of a stronger right. However, we are seriously concerned about the practice of the government union, which has been the tradition for years, that, together with the draft state budget law, a number of drafts are being sent to the Riigikogu, which nationalize funds and cashiers' assets, increasing all kinds of state fees, restricting the rights and financial management of local governments, etc. If it were to sum up the last five years, this list of specific laws would be very long. These drafts could be called ticks, which suck blood from different social groups and spread encephalitis and Borreliosis. Both diseases are seriously damaging to health. These drafts do exactly the same with the Estonian economic environment. One such tick is undoubtedly the current draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea. The bill submitted by the Minister to the Riigikogu procedure was intended to increase navigation fees for some groups of ships up to seven times. As a draft relating to maritime affairs, it created the serious storm water area affected by this law. Raise up to seven times the fees half a month before the start of the navigation period, which will give a strong impact to the entire maritime cluster, only our government coalition today and especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs, from which the ever-increasing and ever-increasing bucket of power already interferes with the functioning and hearing of the whole country. If, before the next year's budget arrives in the Riigikogu, we hear only mantra from the coalition preachers that taxes are not being played, we stand for a stable economic environment, etc., after the draft budget has arrived with its numerous ticks in the Riigikogu, these keywords will temporarily disappear from rhetoric. Due to the stormy opposition of the maritime cluster, the budget makers themselves began to realise that something was wrong, which is why some cosmetic concessions have been made in the draft compared to the original option. For example, the new charges will not apply from 1 January 2013, but from 1 July 2013. The increase in the initially planned fees for cruise ships will be set at 50% in the first year, 60% from 2014. The latter shows very vividly how the Minister lied when he confirmed that a rise in fees has been agreed with the cruise companies and they agree. Unfortunately, almost no account was taken of the higher costs of building and operating ice class 1A Super and 1A ships and the fact that they virtually do not use the icebreaking service, even more so they do so themselves. Tankers and so-called other vessels, bulk carriers and vessels carrying various mixed goods will remain at the worst in the case of the law that will be in force, for which the maximum increase in fees will be more than 6 and 5 times respectively. As tankers are large-scale vessels, they are less price sensitive, with a lower fee per unit transported at the same time. The most acute problem remains the increase in fees for other vessels. Here it is appropriate to recall what Mr Volohonski, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the DBT Company, said through Äripäev: 'This is still a stab in the back of what the government is doing. It's not a relief. Water charges are still rising 450% for us. It doesn't matter if it's 600% or 450%. " Next, Volohonski says: " Investors tend to turn their backs and go to the ports of others. Probably because of these changes, the lawsuit chain is now starting. ' I would point out that maritime business is global, where trade flows can quite easily change its origins and arrivals. In the same region, this is no problem at all. For example, fertilisers can be transported via the Port of Kotka in Finland or via the Port of Ust-Luga in Russia. Flows of goods leave our ports, dividends are lost, rail freight is reduced, employment is reduced and all that is involved. Estonia's economic environment is deteriorating. This law gives a very strong signal about Estonia, where there is no solid investment protection and where there is an unstable economic environment. Through international investors, this signal will certainly reach very far and will be many times stronger and more credible than the empty boasting of our Heads of State and Government with our good economic environment. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party does not want to drastically deteriorate the Estonian economic environment and be a tick for the Estonian logistics and maritime cluster and will vote against the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act 283. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U290	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a chair of speech as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of Jaan Õunapuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U291	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats believe that the increase in waterway charges to such an extent is very seriously damaging to the Estonian economy. More than a month ago, when the draft was at first reading, we proposed to reject it. Last week at second reading, we wanted to continue working on the draft in order to secure a solution acceptable to all parties. Unfortunately, with the coalition's votes, our requests were rejected. Although the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not want to acknowledge this during the debate on the 2013 budget in this Chamber today, I can assure you that the whole debate on this draft has been a series of misunderstandings and confusions. It is particularly cynical to say that we met the entrepreneurs, while raising the fees up to four times, which is then that the initial increase was up to eight times. Today, it can be said that the improvements have not significantly improved the draft. As I said at second reading, this superficial legislation, which does not take account of the undertakings concerned, does not like it. Yes, indeed, although the Economic Commission reduced somewhat the level of fees offered by the government after the first reading, the coalition is still planning a serious tax increase, which will definitely worsen Estonia's international competitiveness and business environment. The sharp rise in waterway charges will not only give back to the maritime and transit sectors, but also to a number of other sectors of the economy, including tourism, shipbuilding and so on. The reckless lifting of fees serves the interests of one-off execution by the Treasury, but it is feared that the opposite will come because some of the owners of the goods will abandon the services of Estonian ports. And another area to which the Social Democrats also drew attention at second reading. This concerns, in particular, the time limit for the entry into force of the Act. Despite the fact that it was indeed proposed in the Commission to enforce the law on 1 July next year, we believe that the change should be known to businesses at least one year in advance, and that is why we did not agree with this six-month postponement proposal. I repeat what I said at first and second reading: the course of the debate on this draft has not given the Socialists sufficient assurance that we are doing the right thing in this Chamber by adopting the draft as a law. In conclusion, as the draft will cause serious damage to the Estonian investment climate and the business environment, the Group of the Social Democratic Party will vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U292	Thank you. I ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Toomas Tõniste Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group supports the adoption of this draft. I will give you two important reasons. Firstly, it updates the current charging system and makes it similar in design to the method used to calculate charges in neighbouring countries. Secondly, according to this bill, ships calling at Estonian ports will cover the costs of their service, i.e. the revenues and costs will be balanced through the fees of the waterway. At the same time, a threshold shall be set which shall not be higher than that of the ship. Ships making re-visits shall benefit from concessions. The concerns of the transit sector over the excessive and rapid increase in prices were fully understandable. That is why I thank all the members of the Economic Commission and the MKM for their good cooperation, which has helped to ease the rise in several fees and also shifted the entry into force of the law by half a year, i.e. by mid-2013, i.e. the cost of the transit sector will be reduced by almost half in the coming year. Thanks also to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has filled the budget gap in an operational manner. I am of the opinion that the processing of this draft is a good example that the Riigikogu does not simply stamp the drafts from the government, but also makes substantive changes in cooperation, which unfortunately cannot be said of one opposition party, where the command of the chief is not subject to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U294	Thank you. I would like to ask for a chair as a representative of the Koja Kallas Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In Europe, as well as in Estonia, the growing problem is the ageing population and the concern about how to shoulder the financial responsibilities of an ageing population. The most important thing is to ensure a favourable environment so that businesses can create jobs and stand up for people to have paid jobs here. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should be good for creating a favourable business environment, yet it seems as if it is not important for a number of drafts submitted by the Ministry. This was also the case with the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. The draft provides for the introduction on a uniform basis of the lighthouse and navigation charges in force so far and also resulted in a multiplication of the charges for the use of waterways. Yes, these fees have been raised for a long time and the state has the costs of shipping the waterways. Yes, because of our geographical location, these costs are high. Yes, the operators involved in the maritime sector agree that the charges do not correspond to the actual costs. Yes, the fees have been in place since 2004, regardless of the increase in the cost of living. But the fact that the fees have been raised for so long was also known by the Ministry, the question is now wanted to raise the fees to this extent and at this speed. The icebreaking development plan for 2006-2013 already provided for a uniform fee for waterways. Why, then, did not consult industry operators earlier in order to find the best solution to cover the costs of waterways on the one hand and to keep the sector viable on the other? The increase in the cost of icebreaking was also foreseen for a long time. Why did the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have to come with a legislative amendment to the Riigikogu at the end of September to raise the fees from the beginning of January? The Ministry put the Riigikogu on a forced toss, writing the increase in the fees prescribed by the bill into the budget. The budgetary balance, as we know, must not be undermined. But this is certainly not the practice that the Riigikogu should tolerate. Relaxing budget deficits without properly assessing its impact on the viability of the sector by raising the charges quickly may result in a situation where, even when the law is adopted, fees may not be paid to the budget to the prescribed extent and there is still a deficit. The price of the public budget balance on paper must not be a deterioration in the competitiveness of economic sectors and thus a reduction in jobs. Although the maritime sector does not represent a large proportion of the Estonian economy, several other sectors, such as tourism, shipbuilding, transit, depend on the viability of this sector. Paul Collier, in his book Millard of the Poorest, has written about traps that prevent poor countries from getting out of poverty. One of them is the trap to change the rules of the game. To recover the investments made is much more complex and expensive than to change policies, so investors are cautious about countries where the rules of the game are being changed too quickly. Changing the rules of the game too quickly in one area may not only jeopardise the competitiveness of the sector but also adversely affect the investment climate in general. We are not as rich as a country to allow ourselves to deteriorate in the investment climate. That is why we are putting the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications at the heart of putting the economic recovery and job creation goal in the future when drafting our drafts. The Committee on Economic Affairs and, in particular, the original Commission, Tõnis Palts, worked hard to find a compromise between the balance of the state budget and the viability of the sector. Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U296	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U297	As a result of this work, the planned increase in charges has been significantly mitigated, as well as delaying the overall increase in charges for six months, so that both ports and operators using waterways can adapt to the rise in charges. We met separately on cruise ships, for whom we envisaged a longer transition time. In order to ease the planning of the payment of passenger ship fees, the submission of payment notifications has now been more evenly spread over the year, and we also provided for special features for ships coming to Estonia for repairs. We reduced the maximum rates of fees in order to encourage an increase in the number of visits. The fees for double-hull tankers with segregated ballast tanks will be calculated only on the basis of the reduced overall capacity of the vessel. We believe that, as a result of all these changes, the draft was better. We ask you to support it, and we also hope it will be mild winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U298	I am hereby closing the negotiations and we are going to prepare the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 283 amending the Law on Safety of Seas, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U299	The seventh item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party Group and the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, as initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Heljo Pikhof as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U300	Thank you. Honourable fellows! The night sessions of the Riigikogu, which lasted several weeks, have turned the debate on the state budget into a joke in the eyes of many people. Still, it's far from funny. After all, there is a fundamental and practical basis for the state budget that we live by. The situation of children, some of whom go to sleep on an empty stomach, depends on it for the lives of all of us. The 2013 budget put forward by the government does not see a solution to many of the problems that cry directly to the sky. However, since teachers and medical practitioners are ahead and the whole nation has begun to make a voice, the irreplaceable view of society cannot be exclaimed in its own way. That is why there is now an unbridled attempt to serve butaphoria. Instead of tripled child support, which has been repeatedly proposed by the Social Democrats, social assistance for the poorest in the coming summer of EUR 10 will be allowed, which is highly baptized for the reform of children's benefits. Unfortunately, even the children of many families receiving income support are not going to receive this tener. If income support is calculated, the costs of housing, electricity, rent etc. are deducted from the family's income and, for example, a single mother receiving income support with children whose income is slightly above the minimum wage may not receive this need-based family allowance. There's a whole series of questions here. How much more will it cost municipalities to review applications every quarter, maintain the relevant databases and check the data on them? Has it been calculated how many additional resources are required from the family to apply for child benefit? How many people have Internet, how many people have to drive somewhere, get to the mailbox and buy stamps? And who will make sure that the children of their families, where the parents themselves are struggling to cope in everyday matters, still receive this supplement? Has the state made calculations of how much additional money and additional social workers are needed by local authorities to carry out this last task? Every decision certainly does not only have a financial, budgetary dimension, but also a mental, meaningful dimension. The current system of child benefit for all families with children means that all children are equal for the state. The Socialist question is whether this draft has considered what such family labelling and marginalisation will entail for a relatively small amount of extra money. Do we want to send a message to society that having children and growing up will lead to poverty? The reform of the so-called children's benefits can be broadly summed up in this way: first, we let the family with children fall into poverty, then we have to walk, the hat in hand, the municipality in order to prove our misery again and again, and then there is hope from the coming summer that the first and second children of the family will be given ten euros per month of the country's purse. Even the current EUR 19 child benefit may become the last sufficient reason why a family at risk of poverty will not receive new support. Applying for "need-based child benefit" may also lead to the need to write out grandmother's home if her pension or, God forbid, salary breaks up the poverty rate of registered people at one address. In short, just as an angelic deer is the case for need-based child care when applying for income support. That's what the Social Welfare Act is about. That is the strong position of the Socialists. Calling this a reform of children's benefits is vile, ridiculous. Nearly 94% of all children grow up today in single- and two-child families. However, the trend of the last three years is the most worrying of population processes that even the first children will not be born into the family. The statistics of primarys have fallen on the crash, in circumstances where the number of women of childbearing age is still at the top. In a few years, it will fall. If the first children are not born into the family, there will be no other children, so the natural need to pay out the support of third and subsequent children will fade away and the people will die. In particular, the implementation of needs-based child benefits in southern Europe illustrates how to overcome the high birth rate in the short term. A few or three generations ago, there were homes full of squeaky children, and now, for example, Greek statistics say that for a woman of childbearing age, just over one child is born. Well, who would love to be pissed in poverty? There are also opposite examples to take from Europe. In the Nordic countries, where all means are used to prevent child poverty, the birth rate is quite high in the context of the Old World. In Finland and Sweden, 3% of the country's GDP goes to family benefits, and in Denmark as much as 3.8% of the country's GDP. The money is not only available for universal and sufficiently familiar child benefits, but also for services for children of every kind, whether they are childcare facilities, free hobbies and school education, school transport or whatever. We, too, have a screaming need for measures to help reconcile family and working life. The Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed to the Riigikogu proceedings to triple universal child benefits to 57.54 euros per month. So far, we've been talking to deaf ears. For children, the state has no money. In Estonia, at least 3% of GDP should be found to support children, that is the position of the social democrats. To say that in the case of higher child benefits, the family could fatten itself up and the parents would lose their motivation to look for work is not nice, to put it mildly. The government makes a big city with a mouth, no fly's nest with its hand. Sad, but true! The reform of the so-called children's benefits added to the state budget for the coming year provides for a lion's share of the public support for children to be frozen at nine euros per month. The Social Democrats won't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U301	Thank you very much. I ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Margus Tsahkna Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come to this remote if the previous speaker hadn't talked like that. In the interests of the verbatim report, I want to make clear that, over a very, very many years, we are taking a decision in this Chamber today to add more than EUR 20 million in grants to children. This is actually a very large amount of money, and we should all be proud to be able to do it. I hope that the next vote will show this in a graphic way. It is very important that, in our tight financial circumstances, we must pay particular attention to those who are the weakest in our society, those children who live below the poverty line. This draft introduces a new measure to help the first and second children of the family living below the poverty line. At the same time, it is very significant that we are doubling universally universally paid child allowance for the third and more children of the family by 2015. This is a very important step in our child- and family-friendly policies. In the same way, we will triple triple the triplet and the larger number of multiple child benefits from 1 July. Next year it will be 3000 euros for triplets, 4,000 euros for quadruples, etc. I want to thank all those people, particularly all the organisations that are involved in children and families, those who have helped to develop this bill, with whom it was born and whose years of work would not have done so. I would also like to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee, in particular Helmen Kütt, who helped with their proposals to make the bill considerably more precise. I think that we have taken a key step in our legal space with this bill. In fact, we have brought our principles for the payment of subsidies into line with our changing family structure. As a result of this change, more and more children who need this help will receive child support. I call on the IRL Group to support this draft. This certainly cannot be the last step in implementing child and family policies. This is one of the steps to be taken. I hope that this hall will be able to discuss both a uniform increase in universal child benefits and the implementation of a service-based support system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U303	Thank you very much. Any more calls? Please, as representative of the Toom Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U304	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Every time I hear about family-friendly politics, it feels kind of bad. As a mother of five, I dare say that family policy is non-existent in Estonia, and if we pretend that something will change substantially from next year, we will lie to ourselves and to Estonian mothers and fathers. On the one hand, there are good things in this draft; no one is arguing against it. What Margus Tsahkna has put forward last is actually a very important matter: in a situation where we do not have so many traditional marriages, but there are families where my children, your children and also the children of the neighbor need legal regulation. It's really nice that we finally realized that this is the situation. But when it comes to politics, we often talk about glass being either half empty or half full, depending on how we look. In this case, this talk is not in place for the simple reason that our poor children are not enough glass. We know very well that, statistically, one in five children lives in relative poverty. We know that relative poverty in the Estonian way is a deep poverty for some other countries, and that is what it really is. These relatively poor children can afford not only to have a birthday party with friends at the cafe, but also new clothes or shoes, let alone a bicycle. It's all very sad. The first thing that happened to this bill was that a promise was made with drums and trumpets: the coalition will increase child support from next year. Unfortunately, that is not true. Firstly, no one increases child support, not even in the case of a very modest family. I remember very well how Mrs Nestor, when I was wrong, asked Margus Tsahkna whether there was an increase in child benefit for a family with two children, where both mother and father receive EUR 400 per month, and the answer was no, because it really did not. What's more, even the little money that's being handed out by the finger will only come back from July 1st. Thus, the term 'next year' is somewhat too stretchy. And this needs-based child benefit, I recall, will be EUR 9.59 for the first child and EUR 19 for the next children, which is, as we understand it, very little. Especially in the light of what we heard yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs. We had come from the children's hospital, Mrs Riigijärv, who complained that, in a situation where we have promised our doctors a raise in wages, this was one effective measure to increase the pay of visits and the cost of bedtime. For example, Tallinn Children's Hospital does not charge their children a visit fee, half of this fee is transferred from its budget by the city of Tallinn and that is it. If I go to the hospital with my kid to see a specialist, I don't pay anything. But the message from the Commission, the 'greater half', was that why don't you charge the visit fee, take it. The visit fee would be EUR 5, as provided for by the law. This means that we will give the poor child nine euros and we will immediately withdraw five euros because he will have to pay the visit fee for the specialist. That's hypocritical, to put it mildly. However, I repeat once again: there are also good things in this bill, the third child's allowance, the triplet allowance. However, since our proposal to increase universal child support for all children was not supported, because so-called "need-based child support" labels children and in no way solves the problem of more and more of our young people moving abroad, the Central Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U305	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and we will prepare the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Estonian Reform Party Group and the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 294, initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U306	On the eighth item, the third reading of the draft Act amending § 177 of the Employment Contracts Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Heljo Pikhof as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U307	Honourable Riigikogu! Raising unemployment benefit to half of the minimum wage was one of the measures designed to increase the safety of workers, agreed in a trialogue between trade unions, employers and employees in April 2008 in order to balance the impact of the new Employment Contracts Act. However, in spring 2009, the government abolished the agreed increase in unemployment insurance benefits and the new insurance benefits postponed this spring to 2013 for those forced to leave work with the agreement of the so-called parties. As you well remember, the government union came up with an amendment to the law that the unemployment allowance would be EUR 101 instead of EUR 145 promised. After the strike of doctors and nurses, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur said that the increase in the salary of medical workers, ambulances and resident doctors, paid from the state budget, will be found by reducing the increase in unemployment benefit in the coming year. Looks like the government wants to punish the health professionals for the strike. It is probably hoped that if the unemployed are deprived of more support due to wage increases in the health care sector, their resentment will at least partially turn against medical workers. It seems that this is a direct act of incitement to tension and hatred in society. Social Democrats do not agree that money is taken from the state budget to raise the salaries of medical personnel, ambulances and resident doctors from the pockets of the unemployed. We have also proposed a source of cover from the state budget: it is the so-called 'roof money' of EUR 4 million. That money is there, it doesn't even have to be taken from the reserve. In conclusion, the Social Democrats do not agree with the source of cover offered by government departments to raise the salaries of medical workers, residents and ambulance workers. We do not agree that this money will be taken out of the pockets of the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U308	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Toomi Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U309	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Nor can the Central Party Group come with such a bill. As has already been said, a clear commitment was made in 2008, a tripartite agreement was signed that, three years later, unemployment benefit will increase to 50% of the minimum wage. Now we withdraw from this agreement. I am absolutely certain that if we were to ask, if you were to ask the medical team, if they like the price of the promise made to them, we would certainly get a negative answer. This promise was an unprotected promise, which led to the tank being pushed first by the members of the Hospital Association, then by patients and now by the unemployed. The unemployed, of course, don't go on strike, they don't have a job, they don't have to strike anymore. I would like to remind you here, although hearing the buzzing in the hall, I understand that the coalition side is not listening to me very much, but I do want to remind you that trust in the state is not a self-evident thing. The trust in the state is based on whether the state of the Riigikogu and the government are able to keep their promises. And this logic, which I have heard here many times from coalition ambassadors, that we are increasing the unemployment allowance, that there was less, now there is more, does not apply for the simple reason that, of course, all kinds of experiments can be carried out, as my own partymate Heimar Lenk did, who lived a month out of living money, but one thing is to live a month for small money, and the other thing is to live for years so that you can't afford new things, dentists, etc. That's a whole other thing. And if we've promised people something, we should have kept that promise. That is why the Centre Party Group is voting against the draft 320.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U310	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. Let us move to preparing the final vote. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U311	Good Eiki, this procedural question has been put to me, but I can't help you right now. You must be content with the red one that is. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U312	I have a procedural question. I know if you're against something, you have to push red, but I'd like to press dark red. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U313	Peep Aru, unfortunately I can't help you either, you have to agree with the green one that exists. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 320 amending § 177 of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U314	If you order dark red for Eik, I'll ask for dark green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U315	We're going to the eighth item. We will begin the second reading of Bill 319 of the Law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Annely Akkermanni, member of the Chair Committee on Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U316	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Environment Committee discussed this draft law again on Monday, 10 December. By the deadline, seven amendments were tabled, six of which were decided to take full account of these proposals of a technical nature and one was decided not to be taken into account. The Committee on the Environment decided already on 3 December that the draft will be sent to second reading today. In case the second reading is closed, the Riigikogu Board is invited to place the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Thursday 13 December and the Riigikogu plenary is proposed to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U317	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said one amendment was not taken into account. What was the suggestion, who made it, and why wasn't it taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U319	I am the author of this proposal and it was proposed to clarify that taxable oil is the oil intended for consumption in the country, i.e. imported. I did not prepare this proposal alone, but I turned to those subjects whose activities could be affected by this legislative provision, namely transit companies. They believed that this amendment should be tabled. Unfortunately, Monday was one of the two days of the autumn session, when I was with another committee, with the State Budget Control Commission, in the British Parliament and their National Audit Office, which is why I could not myself be present for this debate. I also find it entirely regrettable that the Riigikogu is forced to go through such a large draft as 319 SE, which covers a very large number of things on a very wide scale, so quickly that it was not possible to discuss the substance of the consultation and to discuss this amendment again with transit companies, that is, their taxpayers, and those who declare taxable oil. Of course, haste will result in the issue of authorisations for the use of water for drinking starting from 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U320	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you, Annely Akkermann! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1, No 2, No 3, No 4, No 5, No 6, No 7. The amendments have been examined and the second reading of Bill 319 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U321	Agenda item 10 We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U322	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Law amending the Food Act repeals two mandates for the Government of the Republic to introduce regulations in the field of food additives. Instead of these regulations, the European Union Regulations will be in force, which will essentially bring together the requirements of the European Union directives on which the requirements laid down in the national regulations are based. The European Commission Regulation on purity requirements for additives shall apply from 1 December 2012. Two European Commission Regulations governing the use of food additives will apply from 1 June 2013. One Regulation establishes a Union list of food additives and their conditions of use by food category. The second Regulation establishes a list of additives authorised for use in food additives themselves, food enzymes, flavourings and foodstuffs. The repeal of the two legislative mandates does not lead to significant substantive changes in the conditions of use of food additives in foods. However, some requirements apply to the use of additives in the composition of additives themselves and other such substances. The new requirements affect in particular manufacturers of additives and other such substances, as well as a reasonable transitional period for bringing these products into line. Generally speaking, compliance with the requirements in the area of additives will become easier for both the food industry and the supervisory authorities once the whole area has been regulated only by EU regulations and the mandate rules have been repealed by the Government of the Republic. The amendment to the Food Act will enter into force in general terms and in part from 1 June 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U323	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U324	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I can see from the text of the law that flavouring within the meaning of this law is a product laid down in Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and the processing aid is, in the same way, that and the substance laid down in this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Suppose I'm a small pie producer in Varbla County. How am I supposed to know what this substance is and what this product is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U325	Thank you. I understand you want to ask, what is the difference between the additive and the excipient?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U326	Please, Rait Maruse, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U327	I want to know how a small Estonian manufacturer will find out what this product is and what this substance is? Is this information available in Estonian, because the right should be available to the people of Estonia and on the table in a clear way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U328	I can't answer you, but I expect these concepts to be available in Estonian. As you said, they should be, and they will probably be available. We'll definitely check it out. If you have any doubts, we will inform you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U329	Any more questions? Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U330	Thank you. I have a question on the same subject. Should this list not be stated in the laws of the Republic of Estonia that an Estonian citizen or a person living in Estonia who examines Estonian laws would receive exhaustive information?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U331	It is a question of age-old legislation whether it is reasonable to duplicate the exact provisions of European Union law in Estonian law as well. On the basis of the Guidelines of the Ministry of Justice, the general principle of the elimination of duplication has long been applied. So everything that is governed by European law and does not need additional national regulation will be transposed into European law (of course they must be available in the language of the Member State) and will not be duplicated in national law in order to avoid unnecessary confusion. In accordance with this principle, the draft under discussion has also been drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U332	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much to the Minister for Agriculture. For a co-report, I would like to ask Ester Tuiksoo, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U333	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 19 November, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed a draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 322. As a guest, Martin Minjayev, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, gave an overview of the draft law amending the Food Act. The need to amend the law was due to the so-called food improvement package adopted in 2008, which consists of four regulations. The Regulations concern additives, flavourings and procedures for the recognition of enzymes, while the Fourth Regulation concerns the requirements for the recognition of all four groups. Until now, the requirements for these substances have been established by a decree of the Government of the Republic; now it is necessary to replace the references to the regulations of the Government of the Republic by references to the European Union regulations. These are technical changes, basically nothing changes, and they do not entail any new requirements or obligations for the manufacturer or the consumer. The Commission's discussion asked why the proposal made by the Chamber of Commerce had not been taken into account. The reply was that the proposal was not taken into account, as only the first publication of EU legislation is included in the text in accordance with the norm. Taking account of the proposal would have led to a strange situation in which we should begin to amend the law every time the European Union regulation is amended. It was a question of whether trans-fats or corn syrup would tie in with this issue, and if not, should they be dealt with in any legislation. It was said that these substances do not relate to this issue, since they are rather nutrition terms. The European Union has taken the direction that quality standards will no longer be introduced. Requirements can be imposed if safety requirements are taken into account. It was asked whether the draft law would also lead to changes for the food industry, whether there were substances that should not be used under the new regime. Nothing will change for the food industry, rather it will bring clarity. No changes have been made to the list or maximum levels of additives. The list will be reviewed by EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) and it was said that changes could certainly come in the future. The question was asked whether there was cooperation with the Food Industry Association and whether they did not make proposals. The reply was that the Food Industry Association did not comment on the draft, as nothing would change for them. All current standards will continue to apply. The Commission decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur, to send a draft to the plenary on 5 December 2012 and to propose that the first reading be closed. All three decisions were consensual. It was proposed to set a deadline of 10 working days for the 322 amendments to the draft. In addition, the Committee on Rural Affairs held a meeting on 3 December, where the draft law amending the Food Act 322 was also discussed. The draft law was taken back from the agenda by 5 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions. Secondly, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 12 December 2012 by 6; no one opposed, with 2 abstentions and ten working days to set the deadline for amendments, as was the case last time, on 19 November in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U334	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U335	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also discuss labelling issues? You've brought out trans fats and other components like this. If you look at England or North America's label, for example, it says very clearly on all goods, what and how. In European Union countries, these labels often tend to differ. Some people have something written on very small, almost incomprehensible. The way of labelling is not uniform either. While e-substances have been agreed, did the issue of labelling come under any consideration in the Commission and can we talk about this in the future during the draft procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U336	Thank you for your question. The subject of labelling is indeed a very important issue, and I completely agree that it needs to be addressed. However, this issue was not raised in the Commission within the framework of the draft law under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U337	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Esther Tuiksoo! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission of directors' proposal is to stop reading the draft law for the first time. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 322 amendments at 12 noon on 31 December 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U338	Our 11th item on the agenda today is the first reading of draft law 323 on the ratification of amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U339	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good evening. Let me introduce to you the law on ratification of the amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court initiated by the Government of the Republic. The International Criminal Court is an international court established in 1998 with the Rome Statute, whose jurisdiction is to punish perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression crimes if the countries affected by the crime do not want or fail to prosecute the perpetrator themselves. Estonia ratified the Rome Statute in 2002 and entered into force internationally in 2003. The present draft proposal is to ratify the amendments to the Statute, which were adopted at the Kampala Review Congress in 2010. When it comes to content, there are two changes. Firstly, the list of weapons that are considered to be a war crime in non-international conflicts is supplemented. The use of such weapons is already prohibited in the event of an international conflict. Secondly, the substance will be given to the jurisdiction of the court in the case of an aggression crime in order to create the preconditions for individual criminal liability of national political and military leaders in the case of an aggression crime. The definition of an aggression crime is based on previous UN practice and it should be taken into account that the act of aggression must be established either by the United Nations Security Council or, by way of exception, by the Court itself, for the conduct of an aggression crime procedure. The limitation of the jurisdiction of the judicial institutions was an important prerequisite for this Kampala compromise. In order for the Statute to enter into force internationally, it must be ratified by at least 30 Member States and it has been agreed that it will be reviewed before entry into force in 2017. The ratification of these amendments for Estonia will not lead to changes in substance, as this area is already regulated at national level. Finally, I would like to say that this draft deserves support, and as a representative of the government, I certainly support the procedural decisions taken by the Commission so that we can finish the first reading of the draft today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U340	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U341	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! First of all, I congratulate the Minister of Justice on his new and difficult challenge. I have a question about the same subject you mentioned earlier. If you look at the draft law to be ratified and at the Estonian arms law, there is a completely different description in some definitions of ammunition. Should we not, in our arms law, bring the names, definitions of ammunition into line with the draft law to be ratified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U342	Thank you, Andres, for your good wishes. Luckily, I was on the remote yesterday. If you refer to the arms law, I believe that both in terms of court jurisdiction and in terms of this bill, it is important that the international court evaluates one or the other national legislation. In the case under consideration, of course, the Rome Statute will be examined specifically. In the case of the Rome Statute, we have tried internationally to find universal concepts that differ from one country to another. So I do not see a direct problem with the fact that in our national law, ammunition is defined in a different way. It is important that we understand the content in the same way. The Rome Statute, in its international nature, seeks to find a common role between all Member States which approve or ratify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U343	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U344	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The addition to the definition of aggression can only enter into force in 2017. But at the same time, we know that crimes against humanity are timeless. Does it have retroactive force, and can those who have committed their crime before it be brought before a criminal court?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U345	Thank you for your question. There is no retroactive effect on these provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U346	Any more questions? No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. I would like to ask for a co-report from Neeme the Great, member of the Chair Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U347	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft on Monday, 19 November 2012. The members of the Commission, Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere and Commission advisers Carina Rikart, Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide took part in the Commission's work. Advisor Madis Timpson to the Minister of Justice was invited, as was the draft law on ratification of this amendment, and Tanel Kalmet, adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice. The session was chaired by Marko Pomerants and the protocol was by Tiina Kärsna. There was quite a long debate on this draft. First of all, it was discussed whether we could change the wording of this amendment to the Statute in itself at all, so what would it really mean if we wanted to correct something in here? As we have learned, this would mean that we should then re-convene the representatives of 121 countries sitting together in Kampala in 2010, make our proposals and try to introduce amendments to our amendments through this organisation. In fact, it is extremely difficult to improve the substance of this text. We would now be able not to ratify him as such or to suspend the first reading, for example, but that would mean that we should, for some reason, take a very long trip and start implementing our goals in a large organisation such as the membership of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. However, our debate was interesting. It was discussed, for example, whether the list of prohibited weapons is exhaustive and whether bullets with a very eccentric centre of gravity should be individually marked. We realized that I don't think we should, because they also go under the use of bullets exploding and flattening in the human body. Then there was the question of why it was necessary to recast the definition of aggression when the definition of aggression already existed since 1974 as a UN definition. But one of the important motives for changing this statute was actually to clarify the definition of aggression. There are now a number of more specific elements in this, which were not included in the UN definition. So this is one part that makes this document politically important. There was also a question about the US that the US would not ratify it. True, the United States does not recognise the International Criminal Court, which is why this action does not concern the United States. Mr Anvelt pointed out that certain aspects were not in line with the arms law and that we should look at this issue again in the course of further proceedings, whether or not these concepts must be in line with the arms law. There were some really interesting issues. For example, if the definition of an aggression crime says that an aggression crime is also a case where one country allows another country to use its territory to commit an act of aggression against a third country, then Mr Gräzin reminded us of the 1940s, where the territory of a free Estonian state was used under the Treaty of Bases to bomb Finland. After all, such a thing may in some way damage the reputation of the Estonian state. We also found that there is no retroactive force on this amendment and that at that moment, when these changes enter into force, the position of the Estonian state will not be questioned. Nevertheless, there was a lively debate about the position that Estonia should be in here. There was also the question that if a sea blockade has been described as an aggression crime, for example, an energy blockade should also be described as an aggression crime. However, since all these comments made by the members of the committee were directly related to the substantive side and we understood that the addition or modification of the substantive part is a very complex and long process, Mr Gräzini had the idea that the circumstances that Estonia might be interested should be in the preamble to our ratification law. This would then have been accompanied by a longer kind of preamble, such as the sentence that Estonia does not treat its operations as an aggression crime in the 1940s in connection with the Treaty on Bases, or that the energy blockade in our sense is also considered an aggression crime. However, we did not get there to begin to formulate such a preamble text, although Mr Gräzin had a direct proposal to vote through the introduction of the preamble. This procedure was vigorously suspended by the chairman of the committee, who stated that he would not go along with this advance. That was the debate in our committee, which was actually very lively and very substantive. The Commission reached a unanimous decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to appoint Neeme Suur as rapporteur, to propose the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments to 31 January 2012. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U348	Thank you. Please specify the deadline for submitting amendments, I have other data.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U349	The Commission minutes state that the deadline for amendments is 31 December 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U350	It's December, but you said January. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U351	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the Commission's debate on the subject of the crime of aggression, did one of the examples of possible aggression, known and known in recent history, such as the Russian War or any other incident of this kind?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U352	In particular, the Commission addressed the link between this amendment and the Estonian State. Georgia has been through the debate, but not much attention was paid to it. In any case, this whole change is important internationally to over-repetition and clarification of the definition of an aggression crime. And since neither the Geneva Convention nor the current Rome Statute accurately described the act of aggression, but rather dealt with acts already carried out in the course of aggression rather than such, ratification of this document is likely to change a great deal of international criminal law. It will certainly also have an impact on our eastern neighbour's relations with its immediate neighbours, and this concerns the actions that have been carried out there recently. That is why it is important that Estonia's changes also ratify. At this point, there are only three countries that have ratified them, and we would be one of the first, but it would probably have a symbolic meaning for us as a small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U353	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U354	Good waitress! Over 50 reservations have been made to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and have been made four or five years ago. We could add just one more to these 50, so there's nothing special here. But would you be more specific about the idea that Estonia is taking advantage of the opportunity to do what is done a hundred times a day in international agreements, which is done by all countries. We add our reservation, which will be fixed according to the United Nations, etc. Do you understand what's illegal about this? You said it was an advance, well, that means malicious deception, a lie, a hog. What's all this fuckin' bullshit about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U355	Thank you for your question. However, I am not expressing my opinion, but quoting the words of another person. So the fact that it was an advance wasn't my opinion. Preambles are being added, and, as we know, the Preambles have also stopped significantly larger processes for a longer period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U356	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. We're opening negotiations. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U357	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that this document is necessary, useful for Estonia, and, of course, I am also in favour of ending the first reading. However, I think it is important to point out that this is the first document in the world, I would say even, in the history of European civilization, which formulates what aggression is. Until then, known in the 1920s, the concept of Chicherin, the older, the first version of Simpson's doctrine, etc., was discussed about acts of aggression and what happens after these acts have been carried out. To some extent this was also mentioned in the Nuremberg tribunal, but it was not about aggression as such, but it was about planning war as a crime against humanity. So, there's something we haven't had before us in 5,000 years. Article 8 bis tells us for the first time what an act of aggression is and criminalises its design, preparation, initiation and implementation. Among other things, there are a number of other things that we are talking about here, but I would like to draw attention to this. We are Europe, and I don't know what we're all going to be, but besides everything else, we're just a little bit of Estonia. And a little Estonia has a bit of a different problem than maybe the rest of the world. I'm not talking about the past and the base contract that used to be was. Whoever reminds us of the past has an eye out of his head, let's not talk about the past. Even the war in Georgia is in the past. So let us really talk about the future. In the future, I think we must consider two real threats as Estonian politicians. I do not believe that the plastunas of the Moscow Taman division are now crawling to cross Setumaa to Estonia, and I do not believe in the Egyptian marine dessant Pärnu either. I don't think that's a very likely perspective. But I think we need to understand with our senses that there are two things on which an attack on Estonia is planned. The first is a cyber attack, the last one probably took place three days ago, but we can discuss it further. At least all the features of the cyber-attack existed, it was a certain information lock and a combined trigger. It looked like a cyber attack, even if it wasn't. In any case, however, this is a real problem for us. Can I have a little more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U358	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U359	Another thing we have not yet come into direct contact with, but the kind of blackmail that has been triggered against Estonia is the energy blockade. The rumors that we are turning off one or the other taps here or there, especially with regard to electricity and nuclear power plants, are by no means just the boasting of Zirinovsky, but this has been the entirely official position of the Committee on Energy of the Russian Duma. All the more so since the energy weapon, the energy blockade, has already been implemented in one form or another against Ukraine and Belarus. Even if Belarus does not seem to us to be a paradise on earth and a flower of democracy, it is still a nation, a nation and a sovereign state that belongs to the United Nations and is not subject to aggressive acts under the UN Charter. That is why I made this proposal in the Commission and asked the counsellor of the Ministry of Justice to prepare the corresponding text in order to add it to the draft. There's nothing provocative about it, there's nothing special about it. These are two types of aggression which, in my opinion, are important for Estonia's security. And when we inform the world that we are aware of such aggressions and that we are concerned about them, I do not see any advances in this. Oh, my God, we're the most polite country in the world, so modest that sometimes we don't even notice ourselves. So there are two issues that I would like to add here. The justifications are that acts of aggression can also be expressed in cyber attacks, their preparation, planning and actions, both technical and political, which are directed at the state's energy security and which can lead to an energy blockade for any energy carrier. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-12_U360	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. First reading is complete. The deadline for the submission of the 323 amendments is 31 December 2012 at 13.30 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for today's sitting has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. I wish everyone a beautiful evening. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 7.02 p.m.
