ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U2	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate two draft laws. First, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Secondly, the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, on behalf of several members of the Centre Party Group. Renovation of the hangars of seaplanes at the seaport is certainly a very important undertaking to save and bring back to a new life an object that marks the peak of engineering technology at the beginning of the last century. At the same time, there have been various complaints in the press concerning partly unfinished work by the builder, for the work done on the client's debts and more. It is known that for example Nordecon is s. On September 13, the Estonian Express's article 'Building: The Maritime Museum made a rake' stated that the additional money was required on the basis of additional cracks. At the same time, the following sentence is stated in point 2.3.2 of the Procurement Document for the Reconstruction of Seaplane Hangars of the Estonian Maritime Museum: "If the volumes given in the Technical Specifications documentation are different from those fixed in the drawing or work site, the tenderer shall not be entitled to require changes in the value of the works fixed in the contract awarded. ' Thus, as a contracting authority, the Estonian Maritime Museum has foreseen the corresponding risks and the risks are put on the contractor. However, the public procurement register shows that the Estonian Maritime Museum has organised three additional public procurements where only Nordecon has been asked for tenders, i.e. a negotiated procedure has been carried out without prior publication of a contract notice. In this regard, we have a number of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is said and generally believed that one picture, a photo, can be more eloquent than a thousand words. But the basis for our inquiry is the video. A video that no one would have wanted to see better. And that is why I, along with some of my colleagues, will present an inquiry to the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet. Remember when Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili took office in 2008, the President of the Republic of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves emphasised that Estonia is a strong but demanding supporter of Georgia. The President pointed out that Estonia and other countries of the European Union continue to support Georgia's reforms in the development of democracy, civil society and market economy. On 18 September of this year, the Georgian local opposition channel released a gruesome video, where local prison guards are beating up naked prisoners and raping them with rubber clubs. The video leaked through a former prison guard who said that prisoners were even tortured by order of the Georgian Ministry of the Interior. One of the main features of the rule of law is the recognition of human rights. The humiliation of prisoners in such a gruesome way in a country where Estonia has been a so-called older brother is a disgrace. It should be borne in mind that the main victims of such domestic violence are, in particular, the Georgian people, the Georgian state and the democracy of the Georgian state. If one of the pillars of the rule of law, which is respect for human rights, is incomplete, it can be said that Estonia has not been an overly demanding supporter of Georgia. In view of the above, we have three questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The first of these reads: 'What assessment would you make of the recognition of human rights in Georgia? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If inquiries comply with the same law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now pass on the announcements. First of all, the Board of the Riigikogu has intervened in the Social Democratic Party's political group. A draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act, the State Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act, which was initiated on 19 September, and has appointed the Social Affairs Commission. The members of the Riigikogu formed a support group for democracy and citizens' rights and freedoms in Belarus last Thursday. And now, please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Dear Riigikogu, we are now going to approve this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks, so I'll put it to the vote. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U8	The first question to be heard is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi, on 30 May this year, concerning the suspicion of corruption in buildings without a residence permit (No 173). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. That's the third time I've been on the remote, and their contents have been more or less the same. I would briefly remind you that on 15 March 2011, the National Audit Office published a report entitled "Construction activities in local governments with a rapid increase in population'. During its preparation, eight rural municipalities were checked, which are located near Tallinn and Tartu. A total of 85 buildings were checked and it became clear that 48 of these new buildings did not have a building permit. This is a clear violation of the laws of the Republic of Estonia and, for the first time, I asked Kristen Michal, the Minister of Justice, who should deal with this problem, together with several colleagues in this Chamber on 9 April. He pointed the finger at his colleague, Secretary of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. On 28 May, Mr Vaher was also spoken to; he pointed the finger at our esteemed regional minister. As I understand it, today is our most important question, to which the Minister for Regional Affairs is pointing. Who does he think should deal with the violation of the laws in the Republic of Estonia? As, for reasons beyond our control, this question was addressed to the Regional Minister, we ask him to answer three questions. One: 'How have you, as Minister, responded to this report? ' I'm talking about the National Audit Office's report. 'Who do you think should investigate the possibility of corruption in the case of 48 new construction works without a building permit? ' The second question: 'How is it possible that the suspicion of corruption in last year's National Audit Office report has not yet been simply reacted? Do you not think that someone must gain material well-being, that officials do not dictate such a case or impose a penalty? ' And the third question: 'How much do you monitor, as Minister of Regional Affairs, the results of the National Audit Office's reports? ' Eight members of the Riigikogu have signed this inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Now please, regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions in order. The first question: 'How have you, as Minister, responded to this report? Who should, in your opinion, investigate the possibility of corruption in the case of 48 new construction works without a building permit? ' I reacted to the problem referred to in this report even before the report was published. On 16 December 2010, I sent a letter of formal notice to all municipalities to draw attention to the incompleteness of the register and to the need to organise it. However, whether new construction works without a building permit could have been subject to corruption, in other words, whether, in cases where a building was completed without a building permit, the grounds laid down in the Anti-Corruption Act for bringing a person to justice could be investigated by the relevant competent authorities, whose role is to detect, process and, if proven, punish. The second question: 'How is it possible that the suspicion of corruption in last year's National Audit Office report has not yet been simply reacted? Do you not think that someone must have material well-being, that officials do not dictate or impose a penalty in such cases? " I would point out that, as a rule, the public is not informed of the investigation of offences. Therefore, neither can I answer which persons have been the subject of an investigation and whether there is at all. The National Audit Office is competent to detect cases of corruption in the course of an inspection and if they identify them during the inspection, law enforcement authorities have always been informed about this. But more generally, these issues should be addressed by relevant authorities, including local authorities. The audit response shows that local authorities have partly recognised their work in progress and taken steps to correct the situation. Question 3: 'How much do you monitor, as Minister of Regional Affairs, the results of the National Audit Office's reports? ' I regularly monitor the results of the National Audit Office's reports. I also thank the Riigikogu Special Committee on State Budget Control, which has repeatedly invited me to the debates on audits concerning municipalities and local governments. I am very concerned about the assessments of the capacity of local governments and local government associations included in the recent National Audit Office's audits. I agree with the National Audit Office, who again stated in the audit report "Prerequisites for the provision of open services in small and remote municipalities" published at the beginning of this year that many municipalities are too small to provide all services at the desired level. Given the cost, it would also not be reasonable to guarantee them in each municipality, nor would it be possible to hire the necessary number of qualified professionals to provide the services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U12	Thank you very much. Let's start with the questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U13	Good minister! This is a question of building permits. How do you personally feel that the state and municipalities have not made it too difficult to process building permits? Everything takes too much time and one interferes with the other, the municipality interferes with the country, or state officials do not do all the actions they need. Why is it that some building permits take months and even years to process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U14	A draft construction code is currently under preparation. Its codification has already taken place since 2007 and in this context these issues are also under discussion. I hope that this bill will finally be so ripe that it can be brought to the Riigikogu. These questions will also be discussed. If you ask for my assessment, I think certain planning procedures are cumbersome. However, when we talk about the simple issue of housing permits, I believe that these shortcomings are more of a carelessness and, of course, the desire of the municipalities to have as many taxpayers as possible. Therefore, unfortunately, the eye has been squeezing and allowed to continue building without permission. But the local governments have now promised to take care of everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U15	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U16	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. On this subject, not only with your colleagues, but also with the people of the National Audit Office, we have often heard that local governments do not have the means to hire enough people to handle construction supervision and their building permits specifically. Is this situation an opportunity to level massive illegal construction in any way? Could that be an excuse for the situation to be like this? I ask you this as a person who deals with regional problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U17	Indeed, in accordance with § 59 (2) of the Construction Act, the local government is competent to carry out construction supervision in its territory. It is true that many municipalities have administrative capacity problems. However, if you look at this situation, the disorderly issuing of building permits has been dominated by municipalities that are relatively capable compared with others and whose incomes are relatively good. The number of inhabitants also exceeds the median figures in Estonia considerably. Therefore, excuses of this kind should not be made that we simply did not have money. As I mentioned earlier, it is simply a desire to have more taxpayers. It is for this reason that they have simply been allowed to build. I think it's a serious problem. But the boom times are over, and I hope the situation has improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U18	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U19	Dear Minister, You just said you knew what was more common when you possessed the disorder and the lack of building permits. You were hoping it would get better. But have you done anything to put an end to this mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U20	As I said, as early as 2010, I turned to the municipalities to make this right. I repeat, this is the authority of the local governments, and if there are doubts about some corruption, as the heirs have indicated, this must be dealt with by the relevant bodies. The Minister for Regional Affairs cannot make an assessment of whether there is corruption anywhere or not; there are still bodies for that purpose. Local authorities are not known to be subordinate to the Minister for Regional Affairs. We can call them to order, address them, but in the end, our municipalities are still very autonomous.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U21	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Regional Minister. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U22	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're going to end this circle with this, because it makes sense to go forward with this question to only one addressee, and that would be the Prime Minister. However, I do not think there is anything more pointless than talking about a specific matter with our Prime Minister. So that's what we're done with. But here I want to explain to the Minister for Regional Affairs that he is here today only to answer this question because he was pointed at by the Minister of the Interior and we had to take advantage of this opportunity. But right now, there's something else I'd like to tell you. Having been in this Riigikogu for a year and a half, I have greatly re-evaluated my opinion of one or another state institution. For example, I no longer have any respect for either the kapo or the prosecutor's office, judging by what they do, but the more respect for the National Audit Office has grown. I now know better what the National Audit Office is doing, how much work it is doing constantly, year after year, month after month. Why do we face more and more scandals? Why does what is happening in the country scare us more and more? The question of where the rule of law is is already being asked on a large scale. Where's the constitution we're supposed to comply with? Perhaps it is also the case that we do not pay serious attention to things such as the National Audit Office's audits. But sometimes they're just stunning. I would like to remind you of the audit related to the Ministry of Defence and examples of breaches of the Public Procurement Act. I know municipalities and entire areas of Estonia, where dozens of people would have been sent to a cell for one such violation. At the same time, ministries are allowed to break laws by stretching them right, left, top down or whatever you want. The question is that we do not draw enough conclusions from the honourable work carried out by the National Audit Office. We do not force the government or ministries to really improve their work. My personal experience gives me the opportunity to tell you how at the beginning of 2003 or 2004 the National Audit Office does not remember exactly how to deal with Narva. 37 comments were made to Narva, the reasons for which were clearly planned to be eliminated. For three years we wrote to the National Audit Office how one thing or another has been corrected, until 37 comments were left. Zero! All the instructions were fulfilled. I will be honest with you that this has helped us to organise our work more in accordance with the standards, as it should have been. That's a point. We should all speak more and discuss how to make the work of the National Audit Office have a greater impact on our lives in practice. If you continue to have 48 offences on your plate, some of which are supposed to be linked to corruption, and are not to be responded to by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior or anyone, then in this country, you know, something is wrong. Something's really wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U23	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U24	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Kajar Lemberi, Kalvi Tik, Eiki Nestor, Jaak Allik, Helmen Küti, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vassilyev, Neeme Suur, Rein Randver, Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkase, Mart Meri, Indrek Saare and Sven Mikser on 6 June this year (No 178). Mr. Kajar Lemberi, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U25	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As we have already read, on 6 June we made an inquiry into compensation for the exemption from the land tax on residential land. The explanatory memorandum to the draft Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners states that the implementation of the Act does not involve direct state budget costs or revenues. The impact of the legislative amendment on local budgets was 17 million initially estimated by the Ministry of Finance; they have now reduced this figure, but they say it has to be covered by state budget resources. It was also promised that, before 2013, arrangements would be put in place for local authorities to ensure permanent income losses due to the statutory tax credit for national homeowners. It has now become apparent that, despite what has been promised in the draft procedure, the objectives set out therein are not recommended or can not be met and that the implementation of the law is accompanied by a direct shortage of money in many municipalities. However, it is not fairly covered by the compensation mechanism proposed or planned by the government. On this basis, we have asked the Minister for Regional Affairs seven questions and we hope to get answers to them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U26	Thank you very much, Mr Lember. Once again, please ask the honourable Minister for Regional Affairs to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U27	Honourable Riigikogu! I'll answer all the questions one by one. The first question: 'The compensation system planned for many municipalities reduces revenue compared to the reduction in land tax receipts? ' First of all, I note that the total amount of compensation for the exemption of land under residential and public authorities corresponds to the amount of the reduction in the total income of the local government. The Ministry of Finance has based its data on the land administration on individual calculations of the maximum loss of land tax on the land under the land. These calculations do not take into account the population registers of land owners and the current land tax rates. I would point out that this is a prognosis. But according to this, more than 200 out of 226 municipalities have increased revenue as a result of the implementation of the compensation mechanism. It is estimated that a maximum of 10% of municipalities may be those where, if the entire land under home is owned by all residents of a specific municipality according to the population register and is immediately applying for tax relief, the loss resulting from the reduction in the income tax on land may be greater than the increase in personal income tax. In practice, not all land fulfils these conditions and there is no likelihood that revenue will actually decrease. Where the price of the land is more expensive and therefore the land tax is higher, some people may register their residence on their property in order to benefit from the land tax, but with it the income tax related to the person will also move to the municipality, which may mean additional income for the municipality. I repeat, the forecast does not take into account how many landowners register themselves as residents of the municipality concerned due to the possibility of a land tax exemption and thus increase the share of personal income tax. There are no specific figures with the precision of one municipality. After all, people change their place of residence and whether they decide to change their place of residence in the population register, which is the basis for obtaining the land tax exemption, as a result of the application of the land tax exemption, cannot be accurately predicted. The second question: 'If it turns out that the housing tax exemption has resulted in a significantly higher deficit for municipalities than the planned source of cover, is it, and how is the government prepared to compensate for this difference? ' During budget negotiations with the Municipalities' Cooperation Council, representatives of the Ministry of Finance have repeatedly expressed the view that the impact of the compensation mechanism will be reviewed within a few years of its implementation and, if necessary, corrective action will be taken. The third question: 'In order to compensate for the reduction in the collection, account has been taken of the increase in income tax income generated by the economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, which should be even in all municipalities. If the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast for the rise in income tax is more optimistic than the real one, what will happen to those municipalities where the growth is lower than the average? ' The estimates were based on the Ministry of Finance's spring forecast, according to which the amount of income tax received by local governments was to be EUR 707 million. However, according to a more optimistic autumn forecast, local governments receive EUR 722 million from personal income tax. Thus, the calculation was rather based on a more pessimistic forecast than in practice. Question 4: Tax revenue based on property tax is significantly more stable than revenue-based tax revenue in the municipal income base. How does the government intend to proceed if the planned change (replacing the land tax on the land of the home by increasing the share of income tax) in the coming years is significantly reduced by the income tax received by the municipality and the gap between the loss of land tax and the income tax earmarked for compensation increases further? ' In order to compensate for the tax exemption for the land under residence, the government has provided for an increase in the income tax to be paid to the municipalities, since income tax is the best way to compensate for the loss of income, which is an easy way of doing so and does not create bureaucracy. The increase in the share of income tax also ensures equal treatment for municipalities, while the distribution formula alleviates the potential deficit of the tax base caused by the tax exemption. It should also be taken into account that, in the light of the overall revenue base of local authorities, the majority of municipalities are, however, relatively marginal amounts which do not significantly affect the capacity of local authorities either individually or as a whole. The 13 million euros discussed will represent less than 1% of total municipal revenue in 2013. The total land tax receipts are calculated for all countries with different destinations, i.e. 3% to 4% of the municipal income. Question 5: 'The rate of land taxation can be changed by the municipality itself. The individual income tax rate is determined at national level and cannot be altered by the municipality itself. How does the proposed amendment comply with the principle of increasing the independent income base for municipalities as reflected in the coalition agreement? " In reply, I note that, in the run, the compensation for the land tax exemption does not affect the independence of the local authorities' revenue base in a negative direction, as one type of tax revenue has been replaced by another. Compensation does not conflict with the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, as the income base of local governments increases over the years. The expected maximum impact of the land tax exemption is around EUR 13,3 million. The amount of income tax will increase in the coming years and for municipalities it will be an additional increase in income. The sixth question was that, depending on the size and location of the plot, the exemption applied has a different impact on home costs. How much of the housing associated with homes is exempt from tax when the law is applied? In reply, I would first like to recall, as a background, how the exemption will be taken into account. Land tax exemption is calculated on a densely populated area of 1500 square metres, i.e. the city, the city within the municipality, the village and the village, as well as on a comprehensive plan of a local municipality or county planning in a densely populated area of two hectares elsewhere. A home country shall be considered to be a land owned by a person for the purpose of housing if the building on that land has a residence in accordance with the residence data recorded in the population register. If one person has two or more properties, the land tax exemption shall be granted only to the property in which his population is resident. If this property is more than 1500 square metres in a densely populated area, the remaining land will be subject to land tax. As housing may also be used by companies and persons may have more than one residence, according to the analysis of the Ministry of Finance, at least 10% of the housing is still taxed. In 2013, approximately 30% of residential land is expected to remain taxable. This proportion is confirmed by the experience of land tax exemption in Tallinn in 2012. It is estimated that home-related residential land accounts for 70 to 90% and that it will grow over the years. This effect has also been taken into account in the increase in the share of income tax applicable to the local government. The share of income tax is expected to be increased by 0.17 percentage points in 2013, from 11.4% to 11.57% and from 11.57% to 11.6% in 2014. Question 7: 'Good legislative practice provides for the hearing of the views of the parties concerned. What was the opinion of the representative organisations of local governments and the local authorities themselves on the planned change and how much of the municipalities supported the change and how much was opposed? ' With the representatives of the local government associations, a number of working groups on the fiscal and fiscal policy of the Municipalities' Cooperation Council and the Government Commission's budget negotiations have been discussed on compensation for the tax exemption of the home country. The opinions of the representatives of the municipalities have been heard there. The preliminary position of the Assembly of Municipalities' Associations is set out in the interim negotiating protocol signed on 23 April 2012 and in the draft final negotiating protocol on which the national associations are currently shaping their assessment. A joint meeting of the councils of the national self-government associations is currently taking place, where the municipalities agree on common positions on the state budget for next year. For now, this meeting should still be held. At the negotiating table, the local government associations have so far represented the view that the tax relief for the land under home should be compensated on the basis of the maximum possible land tax rate laid down in the Land Tax Act, i.e. 2,5% of the annual tax price, even in those municipalities where the maximum rate had not been applied so far, rather than the actual amount of land tax receipts in 2011, which is the basis for the compensation mechanism to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U28	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U29	First of all, I certainly would not dare to set an equal sign between reality and the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance. But why did we even make such an inquiry? Last spring, almost a year and a half ago, we were seriously discussing land tax exemptions here, and then it was said that it would be good if this compensation mechanism reached the municipalities as soon as possible, preferably by the end of 2011. Now it's been a year and a half since this debate, but it hasn't reached us with the bill of compensation. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U30	The draft could have worked out sooner, I agree with that criticism. At the same time, the compensation mechanism has been widely known to municipalities for a relatively long time. As I said, this mechanism has been discussed in previous negotiations. In this sense, it should not come as a surprise to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U31	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U32	Please mention these around 20 municipalities, where the loss of land tax receipts is higher than the income from the increase in the tax percentage according to the forecasts made. You said there were 20 of them. Please, list them!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U33	There's up to 20 of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U34	Then count them up to 20!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U35	As I said, a precise forecast cannot be made because we do not know exactly where people will register as residents by 1 January 2013. Taxation depends on it. As I said, if a relatively high-income person is registering with a municipality where he owns a property, it is legally perfectly permissible and the right action. If, as a result of this, the municipality misses the land tax on the property under its home country, the amount of income tax received by that person may exceed the land tax forgone. It is currently difficult to calculate whether or not a particular municipality wins or loses. However, I can say that it is evident that municipalities are losing out where the price of the land, especially the price of residential land, is relatively high and where the tax exemption for the land under home does not yet apply. For example, to Tallinn or Harku rural municipality, although the price of the land in these municipalities is relatively high, it actually means that additional income will be received in 2012 due to the additional percentage of personal income tax. However, if the two criteria are met, the municipality is likely to receive less money. I would like to stress once again: it is very difficult to say how much the additional income tax on new registered residents compensates for this deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U36	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U37	Dear Minister, The exemption from the tax on homeland can create a situation where, for example, one parent stays registered with children in the Tallinn house, while the other one enrolls in the summer house and so one family receives two land tax exemptions. As a second-round effect, we are creating a situation where we have completely messed up a picture that must reflect the distribution of the population by municipality. We'll get a population register that doesn't correspond to reality. Was it your conscious choice to provoke such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U38	It may not be a one - way process. For example, if a person actually lives in a municipality close to the capital, but for some reason has registered as a resident of Tallinn, there are a number of reasons for doing so, then with regard to the possibility of obtaining a tax exemption for the land he owns, there are certainly people who register for their actual residence. So it could also mean cleaning up the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U39	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U40	Good minister! I did not understand the answer to Question 5. Land tax can be influenced by the municipality, personal income tax cannot be affected by the municipality. The question was how this is in line with the government's agenda and coalition agreement. You said that it was in line, but I read plainly here that, as a general trend, the role of local authorities in shaping their own tax revenues must be significantly increased instead of small local tax revenues, high-shared state subsidies and so-called local public taxes. I don't know how these things can be compatible. There is an obvious contradiction here. Why don't you explain it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U41	Question No 5 was how the proposed amendment would be in line with the principle of increasing the independent income base of municipalities as reflected in the coalition agreement. I would stress that personal income tax also belongs to an independent income base. And when we talk about redistribution, it has often been argued that there should be more thinking about municipalities with a small independent income base. Much has been said, for example, about increasing the equalisation fund. The current increase in the share of income tax will certainly mean an increase in the independent income base.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U42	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U43	Mr. Minister! When it comes to the growth of the local government's share of income tax, it is certainly not a local government's independent income base. Recently, this share of income tax was reduced by 0.5%, so what independence are we talking about here? At the same time, it is a simple mechanism that does not create more bureaucracy; it is easy to administer. However, the implementation of the tax system for the land under home brings real bureaucracy. As far as I know, the state budget for next year has even taken into account a million euros in order to administer it. Is it rational and wise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U44	Indeed, EUR 1 million is intended for municipalities to clean up the data related to the introduction of the new system. At the same time, I would point out that, in fact, these data should already be in order for the municipalities, but now they will have the opportunity to take further remediation. Is that rational? Yes, I think that the exemption from the tax on homeland is a very sensible and rational decision for our Estonian residents. We cannot always look at how one institution, such as the Ministry or another public body, would benefit. All in all, we still need to be guided by how this affects the Estonian population. And it will certainly be of benefit to the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U45	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U46	Ask for clarification of the amounts concerned. If we are not able to predict this amount for each municipality, what is the estimate of 13 million, originally 17 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U47	I have already said in my first reply that we are aware of the estimated number of residential land we have, and we know how much land tax was collected from residential land in 2011. This amount is well known. The question is how much of the residential land is excluded from this exemption because the owner, for example, is a legal person. And some owners have several properties, they only get land tax exemptions from one. So some of the residential land will never be subject to this exemption. That's the logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U48	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U49	Dear Minister, The political decision, or law, has been adopted some time ago, but the implementing arrangements have not yet been established and there is likely to be a great deal of confusion. That's what we know about your performance right now. My question relates to the fact that there are also apartments that have multi-purpose apartments that are ordinary apartments and are also commercial premises. Have the draft implementing decisions dealt with the fact that apartment buildings also have commercial premises and how should taxation take place in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U50	As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance has prepared the details of the draft Land Tax Act, which also deals with special cases of this kind when the property has several uses. This question of inquiry, or compensation, is not directly concerned, but yes, these things have been discussed in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U51	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U52	Dear Minister, You said that this law would certainly benefit the owners. I'd argue, though. If the owners are exempted from this tax, citizens will still have to pay taxes in order for this law to apply. And, as has already been said in this Chamber, the implementation of this law is far from cheap. I've spoken to a lot of people, and there's a very opposite view of these conversations. Rather, people are also willing to pay taxes to local budgets in order to obtain better services from local authorities. What would you say to those citizens who would still be willing to pay land tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U53	I would advise these people to ask for the number of their local government bank account and to transfer the money if they so wish. It would be very interesting to find out how many people there are in 2013. That's one. On the other hand, as I pointed out, this money will, on the whole, not be collected as an amount into the national budget, as the rate of income tax for local governments will be increased, but the overall income tax will not be increased. In fact, the redistribution takes place in such a way that, compared to today, most of the income tax collected will go to the local government budget and a smaller part to the state budget. You will probably agree that, over the years, we will still see an increase in the absolute amount of income, and therefore also an increase in the amount collected from income tax, while the amounts of land tax will remain more or less the same without revaluation. In the long term, a higher rate of income tax will certainly mean more income than a stable one-level land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U54	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U55	Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, in this process, it can be said that the state is once again showing the place to local governments. The financial dependence on central power is quite obvious. You yourself admitted that this bill should have been ready a long time ago, but unfortunately it has not yet been prepared on this day either. The government's action plan states that the role of local governments in shaping their tax revenues should be significantly increased. How does the current state of affairs come together with the government union program, my mind won't take it. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U56	The financial dependence on central power will certainly not increase. I can't agree to that! A larger share of income tax certainly does not mean greater dependence on central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U57	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U58	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! If there is one million euros in the state budget to implement this law in order to make this process easier for the municipalities, please tell me how this one million will be distributed: is it proportional between the municipalities or must applications be submitted for money? How can municipalities apply for this money for administrative expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U59	Local authorities do not need to apply for this money separately. The Ministry of Finance distributes it in proportion to the size of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U60	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U61	Dear Minister, How is the law, though, whether one family is granted a land tax exemption in only one place or can it be obtained in another place? Mr Eagle gave this example in his question, but you did not answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U62	One owner receives a land tax exemption for a property if he lives there. We expect people to be honest and to provide the right data on their place of residence. It may also be assumed that if a person is the owner of the property, he will most likely spend some significant part of his time there on the property. If family members own different properties and register their residences separately, then we must normally assume that they do not want to deceive the country. But today, it really is a problem to determine where someone lives. Where, for example, is Mr. Eagle's residence? People are very mobile and unambiguously say whether some people live in Hiiumaa or Tallinn, for example, is not always easy. But in general, we expect people to provide honest information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U63	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mr. Kajar Lemberi, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U64	It's a good thing some people are still listening to the hall. To sum up today's topic, however, I would like to say that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax confirmed that the implementation of the law does not entail any direct state budget expenditure or revenue. The Ministry of Finance offered approximately 17 million at the time the draft was drawn up, of which 13 million had already been received by one municipality on the basis of a letter from the Minister for Regional Affairs by the end of June. We have already heard these comments here today. Within a few months, EUR 4 million was able to reduce this concern, and I do not have the assurance that this concern will not be reduced even further by looking at the country. But I do not want to talk about these forecasts for a very long time, even though I consider the result of this whole election promise to be an estimate, to put it mildly. According to the initiators of the Act, the deficit of municipal budgets is covered by the state budget. Before 2013, the initiators considered it necessary to lay down a procedure for local authorities to have a "permanent' emphasis on ensuring income losses due to the tax credit. However, having listened to the answers of the Minister today, I can say that on the one hand, the issue has been dealt with, but the compensation mechanism planned by the government is still not able to fairly compensate the municipalities for the loss of income. Replacing the income base from land tax with income tax amounts does not, in my opinion, ensure a fair proportion by municipality. Whether this difference arises at least 10% for the municipalities, but also for them to be considered, because the impact on the municipalities is still very different due to different tax bases. Moreover, it cannot be excluded that tax revenue based on property tax is much more stable in the municipal income base than tax revenue based on income. So it is quite certain that this step is contrary to the principle reflected in the coalition agreement to increase the independent income base of local governments. Finally, in a letter sent to one municipality at the end of June, the Minister of Regional Affairs declares: "The Riigikogu's decision to exempt the land tax on the land under home is part of the coalition's policy to reduce the cost of people's homes and to give homeowners confidence that due to land tax they will not have to give up their homes. ' Personally, I don't know anyone who knows who should have moved out of his home because of the land tax in Estonian municipalities. However, I do know the people for whom I am thinking mainly of the cost of electricity and heating have exceeded the limit of tolerance and they have been forced to change their place of residence. I also know people who have traded their homes for another because of having a child in kindergarten or school or because the job is lost. However, it seems that these facts are not a problem for the present coalition, and it is also important, despite the opposition of some ministers who know the finances, to comply with the election authorisation of one party. It seems to me that so far the real consequences of this step have not been understood. One more conclusion can be drawn. The loss of income base is intended to be compensated by changes in the regulation of the population register. Certainly, this innovation will make the population register a little more absurd than it is now. People behave rationally and are likely to register their homes elsewhere. Whether municipalities will have to plan kindergarten places according to the so-called cottage owners in the future is shown by the future. I agree with one hundred percent that the cost/income ratio of the home of an Estonian person is out of place, but this populist step does not solve this problem, they are created for both the state and local governments. Thank you for listening. I very much hope that this discussion will at least bring so much benefit that, if we want to call out large and costly electoral promises in the future, we will think first of all about the feasibility and reasonableness of real implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U65	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity, after my hammer hit, to register for a speech in a free microphone. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U67	Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I gave a brief overview of what's going on at our border offices. I also spoke about the activities of officials at the Koidula border crossing. There was talk of officials looking at all the passengers coming from Russia full of petrol in the car and how this excise duty is paid on the spot. By way of introduction, I would like to say that it is not only for the members of the Riigikogu to adopt laws in this Chamber, but sometimes to experience in person how the laws work in life. At the end of last week, I had an obligation to go to Russia, and I made this trip through the Koidula border crossing. The aim was to meet representatives of Setumaa, and at the same time I wanted to see how the current border crossing system works, how taxes are collected from people who bring more fuel from Russia than the permitted rate. Since I was a fellow passenger in a car that had been in Russia on August 21, there was little fear that we would be reproached that we were acting improperly. Just in case, I went to the Tax and Customs Board to ask if we should fill in the declaration or what we should be thinking about, so that there would be no trouble when we got back. The reaction to it really surprised me, and in a very bad way. The customs officials really did behave very badly. I had previously heard of complaints that customs officials did not explain the laws to people. Yes, the law has been in force for a long time, but the exact way in which the checks are carried out has not been clearly explained to the passengers by customs officials, and by doing so myself, I was only able to confirm this. During the summer, I submitted a written inquiry to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance replied to me that the tax authorities have informed passengers in different ways. For example, leaflets are available at the border, which are shared by officials on their own initiative. In addition to the brochures, more detailed information material is available at the border customs offices. Since I received such an explanation from the Ministry of Finance, I now asked myself for this booklet and all the relevant documents that I could read at the border customs office. In reply, I was told that when you come across the border, you must first explain to yourself which rules apply in the Estonian country. Since I had heard that the Estonian country can be visited tax-free with a full tank once a month and once a week only to reach its destination, I asked to explain what the law allows for such an injunction. I was told it couldn't be read from anywhere, it's a direct and oral arrangement of Urmas Köidu. When I asked if there was a regulation at the border crossing point, I would like to read it, they said that it was not. When I asked where to read it, I was told I couldn't, because it's for internal use. In short, as a bona fide traveller, I go to the border customs office and ask for the documents governing their work, but I am told that they are not for public use. So I have to believe what the tax and customs officer tells me. When I dared to ask a few more questions, the situation got pretty ugly. I would like to ask how the administration of the Customs and Tax Board can adopt such regulations as are for public use and what all passengers need to know, but at the same time they are classified. They are not issued, they cannot be read in Official Announcements, and we simply have to believe those tax and customs officials who give us explanations. And this behavior, how they explain it to you... I consider myself quite a nervous person, but even I began to hesitate whether I am a citizen of the Republic of Estonia and whether I really communicate with tax and customs officials in our own country. Even Maxima stores have better service than our border customs offices. I am pleased that the South East Estonian Envoy Group will meet tomorrow and we will meet with representatives of the Tax and Customs Board. I'm not getting any more time, am I?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U68	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U69	Mrs. Ene, I take note of that. I'll come back next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-24_U70	Please! But yes, five minutes is free microphone time. No more calls, I'll close the hearing. Closure of the sitting at 4.07 p.m.
