ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate two draft laws. First of all, the draft Act on the Denunciation of the Convention establishing the International Convention on the Establishment of International Customs Tariffs, in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law; second, the draft Act amending the Law on Health Insurance; in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U3	Thank you. I have adopted two draft laws on behalf of the board. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. Now I'll give you the next message. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviköle, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimpus, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, Minister of Culture Rein Lang, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Ladies and gentlemen, let us get on the agenda this week. There are some improvements. May I have your attention, please? The Economic Commission proposes to remove the third item on Wednesday from the agenda of this week, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Planning Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Right now, the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to postpone the second-day item No 17 is the first reading of Bill 277 on Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Social Democratic Party's Group, to the next working week. With these two amendments, I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda, 5 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the inquiry for special-marked fuel submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Ester Tuiksoo, Valeri Korbi, Tarmo Tamme, Viktor Vassilyev, Aivar Riisalu, Yana Toomi, Enn Eesmaa and Mailis Repsi on 23 October 2012 (No 205). Ester Tuiksoo, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U5	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Agriculture! The Group of the Centre Party has submitted an enquiry to Helir-Valdor Seeder concerning specially labelled fuel. On 15 June 2011, the Riigikogu adopted a draft Act amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, which was initiated by the Government, according to which the use of specially labelled liquid fuel in stationary engines and mining, forestry and construction works was discontinued. It was a two-stage reform. The second stage provided for the implementation of support schemes or direct payments to beneficiary areas, including agriculture. The proposals for the second phase were planned by the initiators of the draft in the course of 2011. It is now the last quarter of 2012, but the proposed proposals have not been submitted by the government. On 21 June, the Government has discussed aid schemes resulting from the abolition of specially labelled fuel sold at preferential rates. However, neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Agriculture has fully answered questions on this issue in the Riigikogu Question Time, as in the hope that it will be postponed even further. There is also one concrete example in our inquiry that the current unregulated situation is very disturbing for farmers during the winter period. Inquiries have asked the Minister five questions, we are waiting for answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U6	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. Please respond to the floor by Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U7	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the heirs for their questions. The subject is indeed topical. I, as Minister for Agriculture, can, of course, address this from the point of view of the interests of the agricultural sector. The issue of special fuel labelling falls within the remit of the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Agriculture, and I would like to emphasise this immediately. While there was an introductory discussion of mines and forestry and all other areas relating to specially labelled fuel and possible relevant incentives, this is not all the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. You should contact either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Ministry of the Environment. However, the Ministry of Agriculture has always been an accomplice to the issue of the possibilities for farmers and fishermen to use specially labelled fuel under more favourable conditions. That is why I am certainly able to answer the questions asked by the heirs. Question 1: 'How far is the Ministry authorised to prepare proposals for the second phase of SMEMS in 2011? ' During the preparation of the 2013 state budget, negotiations were held with the Ministry of Finance and the government office also discussed the replacement of the special-marked diesel measure in agriculture with a new compensatory subsidy scheme. For various reasons, we decided that the implementation of the new system would not be feasible in 2013. The same is true of all farmers' representative organisations, as far as I know. The second question: 'What is the new scheme for the use of specially labelled fuel proposed by you for the agricultural sector? ' The scheme proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture should be based on the use volumes of specially labelled liquid fuel. Initial calculations for determining the tax credit limit for an individual farmer should be made on the basis of the database for the sale of liquid fuel specifically labelled by the Tax and Customs Board and the agricultural land use and farm animal production data in the PRIA agricultural register. In subsequent years, the amount of fuel shall be adjusted on an annual basis on the basis of the volume of agricultural activity on the basis of the hectares of utilised agricultural area and the farm animals grown. As the analysis so far has shown that depending on the purpose of the land use and the crops grown, the amount of fuel used per hectare is different, we need to establish fair cost standards based on the crop being grown. In developing the cost standards, we have used the help of researchers from the Estonian Institute for Agriculture and compared the quantities of fuel actually sold. We have planned to divide the crops into five cultural groups. In addition to tillage and farm work, fuel specially labelled according to the current scheme is also used in the preparation, feeding and manure management of livestock feed, which we have developed a livestock unit-based cost standard of approximately 40 litres per livestock unit. The costs of stocking feed and maintaining pastures have been calculated in the context of the corresponding crop group on agricultural land. On the basis of the above, a limit on the quantity of fuel shall be established for each person in the Register of Agricultural Registers and Information Office based on the number of hectares recognised as eligible for aid and the number of livestock units calculated on the basis of the number of animals on the register of agricultural animals on the date to be agreed in the previous year. Within this quantity, the producer is able to buy diesel at a reduced excise duty rate. There are different options for the future, but on the basis of negotiations between the Ministry of Agriculture and producers, the following would be the most appropriate option. Producers shall receive an annual quota for the purchase of excise fuel reduced on the basis of an electronic customer card on the agricultural land they use and on the animals they grow. Information on this shall be communicated to the Tax and Customs Board once a year. Fuel would be purchased from conventional filling stations, with larger quantities also directly from the excise warehouse. Within the limit of the limit, a farmer could buy liquid fuel by paying a more favourable excise duty together with the price. At the end of the lime, the producer would be able to purchase fuel from the same distribution chain with the normal excise duty. Question 3: Has the Ministry taken an interest and compared the system of different support schemes in other EU Member States? 'The Ministry of Agriculture is very well aware that different levels of excise duty are levied on agricultural fuel in different Member States, but that there are also various limits to use. The time for replying to the enquiry does not allow for the dissection of the systems applied in different countries, but it is certainly not right to focus only on the level of the excise duty on special-marked fuel, i.e. the price at which the farmer buys the fuel, but it is also right to monitor whether there are any restrictive cost standards. As a country with a lower excise duty, Latvia is the most frequently cited example, while in Latvia a farmer is allowed to use less expensive fuel only up to 100 litres per hectare per year. In many areas, however, fuel costs per hectare are much higher. There is also a country-wide cap on cheaper fuel use of 85400 tonnes, which is estimated to be perhaps half of Latvian farmers' fuel consumption. It is estimated that half of the fuel must be purchased in Latvia at full price. Moreover, this system is terribly bureaucratic. Each fuel recipient shall submit a separate declaration by 10 May each year, together with separate statements of expenditure per hectare for the production of agricultural production, etc. If all these parameters could be taken into account when comparing different systems, then we would have an adequate comparison. But we know that there are countries where the excise duty on specially labelled fuel is zero, and there are countries where the excise duty on specially labelled fuel for farmers is much higher than in Estonia. So the situation of farmers is different. Fourthly, land use in the agriculture sector is different from that in other agricultural sectors. How have you planned to compensate for the use of fuel specially labelled for the gardening sector on an equal footing with other agricultural sectors? ' In the description of the new scheme that we have forwarded to the Ministry of Finance, the cost rates vary per hectare according to the type of land use. For vegetables, we have planned higher cost standards, for example in the case of horticulture, they are higher than in the case of cereals or fodder crops. We have taken into account that there is a difference in fuel consumption between companies operating in agriculture for the cultivation of different crops and the different objectives. We would like to approach the specific labelling limit in a differentiated way and, of course, also take into account the needs of the horticultural sector. Fifthly, is it not sneaking up on the development of a new special-marked fuel system in the agricultural sector to eliminate the compensation for special-marked fuel? ' Definitely not! Delaying this means that the current situation with the benefits will persist. We have provided information to farmers' representatives on the progress of the negotiations at several meetings of the Agriculture and Rural Development Council. There we have jointly concluded that it is appropriate to continue with the current system. In this case, the producers' view is high plus that the use of reduced excise fuel is not limited. If the production process is more fuel-intensive, such as the multiple cultivation of vegetables, then the purchase of fuel at a favourable price is guaranteed for the entire volume of the works. For my part, I would like to add that I think we are looking for a solution in the wrong place. Even if we are able to reduce somewhat the excise duty on specially labelled fuel to farmers in Estonia, the different treatment of farmers in the countries of the European Union will still remain. In my opinion, the solution is to be able to treat it as State aid in the European Union as a whole and to give Member States the same opportunities. This would mean introducing the same opportunities for Member States to grant incentives. Currently, farmers in the Member States are in different situations. In my opinion, it should be regarded as State aid. At the same time, however, the granting of a fuel premium higher than that agreed could be regarded as prohibited State aid. In short, I would like to say that excise duties on fuel for farmers should be the same in the Member States. This would put producers in the same position. At present, excise duty varies widely between Member States and is part of unequal treatment. I believe that it should be the European Commission's responsibility to resolve this issue sensibly and definitively. It is not right for Member States to cross-prone each other and try to create greater or smaller advantages for themselves through tax incentives, thus putting farmers in different situations. I see a solution rather there, and I have also told the Minister for Finance that this issue should be raised in the Council of Finance Ministers, which is their competence, not the competence of the Council of Agriculture Ministers. How real is this, there is a question in itself, but I think it would make sense to have such an approach. Furthermore, as regards why we have not moved to the new system of compensation, I am speaking today again and only on behalf of farmers, it would be difficult to implement at national level, and this would require very good cooperation between our local authorities. This would, of course, be achieved and the system would also be implemented, but the European Commission considers in principle that agricultural payments, whatever they are in the Member States, must not be linked to production. The Commission will not allow us to adopt a differentiated approach so that we develop different cost standards depending on the culture that is being cultivated. However, the Estonian producers are certainly not in agreement with this and the Ministry of Agriculture does not agree that we are setting one average limit for all producers, regardless of the actual fuel consumption. This would be very unfair and would also place producers in a very unequal position in Estonia. However, the Commission has said that if we differentiate, they will not accept it, the trend is to decouple subsidies. Regardless of what the farmer grows, there must be one common average limit. This would be unfair and not supported by the Estonian farmer either. This has been the main reason why we have taken time off. If the Commission does not accept the differentiated and flexible approach that we want, then the best possible system is the one that is currently in place, but which actually has two drawbacks. One is that farmers would like this benefit to be higher in financial terms. And another problem: how to deal with emergency situations, for example when it is necessary to shove snow in rural areas, etc. If we could develop the existing system further, it would be the best system. The transition to the compensation system, I dare say, is not supported by farmers either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U8	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, first.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U9	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering our questions. There were absolutely the right points of view in what you were saying, and you are proposing new opportunities, but there are problems over and over again. You referred to a lack of time, explaining why you did not answer the question of how it had been resolved in other countries. Perhaps you can explain, however, how other countries have solved this problem in the cultivation of different cultures? Have they been differentiated or not? Perhaps there is a good example to take from other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U10	Since I can now respond further, there is no time limit, I can give you some examples of how the matter has been resolved in other countries of the European Union. I spoke briefly about Latvia. In Latvia, a specific fuel excise duty of EUR 0 per hectare has been granted to farmers, but the derogation is limited to a maximum of 100 litres per hectare per year. What goes beyond that, you have to buy at full price. And there are additional conditions. The farmer must have an agricultural income of at least 200 lats per hectare. This has to be proved, of course, and this means further reporting. In addition, the volume of preferential fuel is 85400 tonnes throughout the country. Once it is exhausted, no farmers will receive any benefits. We have taken into account how much such fuel is used in Estonian agriculture. It's about 100,000 tons a year, so it's bigger than the Latvian limit. Given that Latvia's agricultural land and production capacity are higher, it can be assumed that this limit will satisfy the Latvian fuel demand of 50 to 60% and the rest will be purchased at full price. Each applicant shall write an application for a benefit by 10 May of each year. This system is managed separately by the payment agency. So the system is much more bureaucratic and we cannot say that all producers are guaranteed zero excise fuel. So this is the Latvian system, as I said, for everyone at the same time, up to 100 litres per hectare. The Estonian Institute of Agriculture has developed average fuel consumption limits for different cultures in Estonia. In order for you to imagine what this 100 liters average means, who it satisfies, I read: technical crops....150 liters per hectare, potatoes... 1-year fodder crops...120 liters per hectare, multi-annual fodder crops..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, if the average rate were to be set, it would, above all, simply be the 'Euroheiners', non-agricultural producers, but active producers, particularly potato and other vegetable growers, would be major losers. That's probably true in Latvia. A differentiated approach is permitted in Lithuania, as far as I know, for one reason only. They had this system in place before they entered the European Union and these countries were allowed to continue with the system in force. However, no Member State will now be allowed to implement the differentiated system. But it has been possible for those who had it historically before accession, and if so agreed upon in the accession negotiations, to continue. So if Estonia had such a system at the time of accession and we had requested it in the accession agreement, we would probably have received it. But it's history. Now from other countries. Czech Republic - EUR 176 per 1000 litres (i.e. higher than Estonia), 60% refund of excise duty on a taxed mixture of diesel or diesel fuels (up to 7% bio-additions) and up to 85% excise duty on a blend of diesel fuel with at least 30% rapeseed oil methyl esters. Denmark, EUR 57 per hectare, Germany, EUR 255, Estonia, EUR 110, as I said, Greece, EUR 412, normal rate of excise duty, Spain, EUR 78, France, EUR 72, Ireland, 88, Cyprus, 0 Latvia and Lithuania, as I said, with their own specifications, Hungary, EUR 69, Holland, EUR 258, Austria, 21, Portugal, EUR 77, Romania, 21, of course, with certain specifications that cannot be spoken out all, Slovenia, EUR 32, Sweden, United Kingdom, EUR 128, EUR 129, as well as with their own specifications. That's the picture. There are 6 to 7 countries where this fuel bonus is lower than in Estonia, while in the rest, with certain differences, it is higher. But once again: this number itself is not the only indicator.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U11	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U12	Good minister! I have a question for you rather than for a member of the government, not for the Minister of Agriculture. I remember that from time to time you have also replaced the Minister of Finance. Specially labelled fuel is a slightly broader concept for us than the agricultural term alone. This also concerns the pretty good promise of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to get home expenses under control. I, too, am one of the unhappy ones who uses oil heating at home, and we know of the government's plan to excise the oil used to burn the kettle at home. At the same time, excise duties on fuel should, as we know, go to repair road holes and to road construction. What does my boiler have to do with roads? Does the government still have this plan that the same excise duty on automotive fuel will also be charged for kiln fuel? That would be unfair, and it should also be a very unacceptable scheme for you as a patriot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U13	Thank you. We agree with you on that. I can tell you a positive answer: in addition to farmers, this bonus was maintained precisely for private boiler houses, small boiler houses. There's no plan to cancel it in the government right now. In order to keep household costs in check, the special fuel bonus has been maintained, in addition to farmers and fishermen, specifically for owners of small boiler houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U14	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U15	Good minister! My question, too, concerns excise duty on fuel with special markings. As we know, the European Union has introduced a minimum rate of excise duty on special-marked fuel; in Estonia, this excise duty is higher than that rate. Can you tell me why it's higher? Could this be reduced and how much would it help an Estonian farmer to reduce the excise duty on specially labelled fuel to the minimum required by the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U16	It would certainly help a farmer to reduce the excise duty on specially labelled fuel. This would make it possible to save costs, produce cheaper. But, as far as I know, our specially marked excise duty on fuel has never been at a minimum as long as we have been part of the European Union. True, it was lower than it is now, and it was slightly raised during the crisis years. But the minimum has never been. As Minister for Agriculture, I would strongly support this reduction, but at the same time I admit that, if we look at the entire state budget in terms of revenue, this decision, which was made in times of crisis, was probably the best of the bad choices: the excise duty on fuel sold at a preferential price was slightly increased, but in agriculture, fisheries and small-boiler owners still have the advantage. I think it was the best of the choices possible under these circumstances. At the moment, as I said, the solution would be, from the point of view of farmers, it would be emphasised as the responsible person in this area, that it would be treated as State aid and that the situation of farmers in the various Member States would be levelled off. I see the question here not only because it is costly, but also because it places farmers in different competitive conditions in different countries of the European Union and makes sense to regard it as prohibited State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U17	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U18	Honourable performer! I listened to you here, and I began to think that as long as we knew each other, this issue has been up in the Committee on Rural Affairs all along for years. How can you explain to someone who is not very familiar with it, what is the problem? Why has it been under discussion for so long? These sums are not so great, but the whole of Europe is arguing and competing. When could this harmonisation come? When could this problem be solved? Everyone just talks, talks, talks. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U19	I cannot answer this question when the special fuel system used by farmers in Europe could be exactly the same, but I do not consider it utopian either. In fisheries, for example, Europe has set a zero rate of excise duty on fishing at sea, which is also applied in Estonia. Maybe a lot of people don't know that, but that's the way it is. If Europe has agreed that this excise duty will be zero in fisheries, why would it not be possible in other areas? I don't think it's hopeless. But it is certainly very difficult for the 27 Member States to agree on different tax policies, which takes a very long time. The Estonian state's domestic policy decision has been that we have freed fishermen from excise duty on inland waterways too, because otherwise we would create an unequal situation within Estonia. European Union legislation does not require that inland waters such as Lake Võrtsjärv and Peipsi have zero excise duties on fuel for fishermen, but we have established in Estonia that fishermen are on an equal footing. European legislation only requires the sale of zero excise fuel for sea fishing. So we have applied a higher discount than the European Union's minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U20	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U21	Mr. Minister! As is known, from 2014 onwards, the country will no longer be allowed to grant agricultural payments directly to farmers. I ask: is it not the right time to move excise duties on fuel to a minimum to support farmers through this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U22	This is a matter of the state budget as a whole. Of course, much depends on what happens when we start discussing the 2014 budget. For now, no European Union grants have been agreed for the next period. If it is clear to us what the subsidies for Estonian farmers will be and what the possibilities for our 2014 state budget will be, then the whole question must be analysed in one context. But, yeah, then it's definitely a place to think.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U23	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U24	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Thank you for your meaningful answers. Even in me, a very distant person from agriculture, they aroused interest. You mentioned the compensation mechanism and that farmers agreed that it would be postponed to 2013. Perhaps you could explain why they agree to such a postponement? It's bad for them!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U25	No, it's not bad for them. Why did the agricultural organisations also agree that the existing system would persist? One reason is what I said: the Commission gave us the answer that we cannot approach producers in a differentiated way. We should set one average limit in Estonia, which would simply win the meadows and lose the food producers who have a higher actual cost. This would certainly not be in the interests of farmers of active food producers. That's one reason. Secondly, we proposed that crops should be divided into five different categories according to fuel consumption. This has been very difficult and it is very difficult for the Ministry to answer why not four or six or seven categories. The farmers themselves pointed out that fuel consumption depends not only on the cultivated crop but also on the soil, whether the land is limestone or non-pained, and the landscape. For example, in Southeast Estonia, hilly terrain and fuel consumption are much higher than in a flat field. In Southeast Estonia there are also very small fields, even less than a hectare, which means fuel consumption per hectare more than on large flat masses. When I went to Southeast Estonia to learn about the situation, I was forced to drive the tractor so that I could make sure of it myself. Old people told me that in Soviet times, fuel costs were twice as high in Munamägi's sovhoo. So it would not only be enough to take account of the crop grown, but we should also take as a basis the size of the agricultural array, the slopes of the field, etc. Guaranteeing justice will be so difficult that we cannot do it and will only open Pandora's box, and it will not be possible to find a solution that satisfies all the requirements. This was another reason why farmers no longer became very enthusiastic. Thirdly, what is the compensation that the state budget must have? Right now, farmers and farmers are very comfortable, I mean in a good way, not in a bad way. They can use fuel for agricultural production as much as they need. A grower needs fuel many times more than just a meadower, and he can use it. If we impose compensation, we'll put forward rigid limit values. What if there's no more money in the state budget? We're counting on a certain amount of fuel, but if they use 20% more fuel, for example? A lot depends on the weather and everything else. It's a wet autumn, you have to dry the grain, and any other costs can be much higher than a specific year. So planning this kind of money for the budget would mean opening up a new front: we start to argue every year when drawing up the budget, how much farmers need, whether it's either that or different, and if we planned less, we need extra money. There is no need for this dispute at the moment; this aid will automatically be received by farmers through preferential fuel. So the current system is very favourable to the farmer. The only other thing they would like to see is that this benefit is greater in financial terms and that the problem of pushing snow is also solved. Those two things. What can I tell you about pushing snow? As far as I am concerned, the Tax and Customs Board has not imposed any penalties for snow-slapping However, this is a problem because it is an interpretation of the law and there is no simple solution to it. The Tax and Customs Board has made comments and drew attention, but I have not received any information on the fines received. But, of course, things are not normal, and if there is another winter that needs to be snowed in extraordinary circumstances, then we are facing this problem again. We are trying to settle this, but this must be done in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Ministry of Agriculture alone is certainly not competent to resolve these issues. I also admit that this should not be a business That is something we must definitely avoid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U26	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U27	You just touched on the question I wanted to ask. The situation is really quite a fool when a farmer has one tractor and for agricultural purposes is a fuel with a preferential excise duty, but there is no forest work and no snowpour. How does he physically change that fuel, or what does this work really look like? When could this problem ever be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U28	Yes, it is not convenient for a farmer to change his fuel for forest work and snow. When it comes to pushing snow, it's a little bit easier, maybe it's overdramatic. We have an agreement with the Tax and Customs Board that in exceptional circumstances and when snow is being pushed within our parish, no one will be fined for it. Once again, if you have any information that someone has been fined in these situations, let me know. It's more complicated than woodwork. I admit that both farmers and larger farmers have both fields and forests, and the situation that there are different systems is not reasonable. My personal opinion is that it would make sense, at least with regard to forestry, to restore the former system, which is the system currently in force for farmers, to allow them to use specially labelled fuel on the same basis as farmers. Then there would be a reasonable procedure so that they would not have to change fuel in the meantime. As I said, the alternative is that there will be compensation for the change. But the shortcomings of the compensation system and the Commission's position I have already presented to you, so we have taken it out of the current active debate. I therefore see this as an alternative, but I have to say that I cannot represent the whole government's opinion with it, because the government as a whole has not reached that position. I can only express my personal opinion and the position of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U29	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U30	Minister, thank you very much. We were talking about the right paths: forestry and other exceptions. When all this reduction and loss of subsidies was addressed at all, our esteemed Minister for Finance said that the promotion of fossil fuel consumption must under no circumstances be a supportive measure. It is now such a situation that, in agriculture and fisheries, the concession will remain, and it just sounded like it could be restored to forestry. What are the real prospects for re-use of painted fuel in forestry? Or is it more likely that this fuel will eventually disappear in agriculture and fisheries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U31	There will probably never be an ideal situation. I do not know what this ideal situation could be, nor are there clear solutions. Why am I talking about the possible restoration of the advantage in forestry? But only from the point of view that farmers have both the field and the forest and the situation where you need to change fuel before going after the firewood in the forest is not normal. Forest and agriculture should have the same system of specially labelled fuel. At the same time, I can state here my personal position that I, too, do not consider it reasonable to grant farmers an advantage through specially labelled fuel. I don't think it's right. It makes no sense for sustainable management to grant an advantage in the use of fossil fuels. In fact, the more fuel you use, the more benefit you get. In itself, the current system does not stimulate fuel saving and the use of fuel-efficient technologies. So, in the long term, the granting of benefits through the excise duty on special-marked fuel is not reasonable and sustainable at all. But it's a long-term question. This is also a question for the European Commission, because, as I said, it is a decision by the European Commission concerning fishermen. We know how many large On the one hand, it seeks to promote sustainable management and environmentally friendly fishing and sustainable fishing of the resource; on the other hand, it indirectly promotes fuel spending and waste. So that doesn't make sense. But this is a broader issue, which a small Estonian country in the European Commission will not solve in this way. But now we have the power to start treating the forest and the field in the same way as the first step at national level. And since the compensation system has a number of shortcomings, which I have said, and it is not reasonable to implement it now, I do not see a better solution on the run than to treat the forest and the field in the same way. Rather, an advantage for forest works could be restored until better solutions are found. This also concerns European policy as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U32	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U33	Minister, thank you very much. You have mentioned here today, but we have also understood from your interviews that you have been sure that if there was a cut, all the agricultural and other representative organisations were aware of it, it was all coordinated, or at least you had discussed it with them. This time, too, you say that the parties involved have been spoken to. Has this talk been one-sided or bilateral dialogue, and what have their views been?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U34	I would like them to be tripartite: that you also listen attentively. I've explained it twice, so I'll tell you the third time. Indeed, the Ministry of Agriculture came up with a proposal to switch to a new system in order to abolish the special-marked fuel concession and switch from the state budget to the compensation system that already existed in Estonia for a few years. We developed various fuel limit norms for this purpose and prepared this system in advance, and we also saw it as an electronic solution, which would be very convenient and would create a minimum of bureaucracy. The biggest obstacle we were stuck in was the European Commission's response to us that they would not allow this advantage to be approached differently by farmers. Following this, the position of both the Ministry of Agriculture and farmers changed. The view is that if an average cost limit is set in Estonia, it is not fair, but puts some farmers in an unfair disadvantage. Then the position of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the producers changed: it was found, jointly, that it was not reasonable simply to encourage the 'Eurograss' meadows in addition to receiving the same benefits. Then they could also have a higher fuel limit than they really need and may sell it to actual farmers. That would be ridiculous, too. In order to avoid this, we took this proposal out of the active debate and farmers' organisations agreed to it. After we received an answer from the Commission, our position has also changed, in addition to other, minor difficulties that are not 'fundamental' and can be solved, that was the main obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U35	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U36	Honourable Minister of Agriculture! In February 2012, the Baltic Assembly handed over to the European Parliament in Brussels its letter on common agricultural payments. And when Europe answered us on that, there were a number of accusations at our address about the spirit that the voice of Estonia in Europe has not always sounded, not all the meetings where things have been discussed, our high-level representation has not been present. I really like it when you talk eagerly and passionately about fighting for the rights of our farmers. But has this fuel been heard in Europe, or are we there in the role of teachers afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U37	I don't think we're in the role of teachers after all. But once again, this issue does not fall within the competence of the Council of Agriculture Ministers. In the Council of Agriculture Ministers, we have spoken informally on these issues, but the tax laws do not fall within our competence. Officially, this has not been discussed at all in our Council and certainly will not be discussed. That's my short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U38	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U39	Minister of Agriculture! You said that you had been negotiating with the Tax and Customs Board and agreed that if a farmer pushes snow off the roads within the boundaries of his parish, then the Tax and Customs Board will turn a blind eye and no fine, although the law is actually being broken. I have a very big request for you. We have a meeting in Võru on 26 November, with a representative from the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance, and people who have paid taxes at the border as if not on grounds. The Tax and Customs Board is fined there by those who bring fuel from Russia in their standard fuel tank. As a good negotiator, would you be willing to help us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U40	I can't tell you how good a negotiator I am. In the previous question, I read the complaint that I am not a very good negotiator, but wise afterwards. Maybe there are better negotiators who could come and help you. But yes, the law actually in force requires the application of common sense, as required by the application of all laws at all. Life is always more written than it is possible to record in the lawhouses, and the supervisory bodies, the various officials who apply these lawnhouses, should, of course, show flexibility within the legal framework. And a good law must lay the foundations for it. Unfortunately, not all laws are good. You see, a farmer can still use specially labelled fuel if he travels to his production facility, which may be farther away. It is also a matter of interpretation. And we know that the Tax and Customs Department will stop the tractor on the highway and ask, "Where are you going now? Are you going to your production facility? Where's the production facility? " Perhaps by chance there is so much snow on the road that the man cannot get to the production building unless he has to leave the plow in front of the plow to push the snow out of the way for the entire length of the road. It is also a question of interpretation; there is no clear solution here. But for all agricultural work and travel to agricultural sites, the use of this fuel is permitted. If you carry manure, it's okay, but if you provide transport, if you carry anything, you're not allowed. So the implementation of the law requires common sense and I find it very difficult to comment on behalf of the implementers when there have been individual cases where this has not been the case. But I will say once again: yes, we are ready to talk to the Tax and Customs Board so that the law is applied in a sensible and flexible way, so that no one's interests are violated and the principle of equal treatment is not violated. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U41	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U42	Good minister! Last week, I met the top oil shale energy and construction materials industry. They are very upset with us and with the government about the regulation of specially labelled fuel that we have banned the use of this fuel in these sectors. What do you think as Minister of Agriculture? In some ways, agriculture gives little to the Estonian economy, it is only 3% of GDP, other sectors give much more and are annoyed. Do you think that their resentment is justified, or should it remain so that, in competition with other countries, our players in these sectors are down?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U43	I was talking about equal competition in agriculture. I believe that this should be treated uniformly throughout the European Union. I don't have an overview of how much fuel is available in other countries in other areas. But I know that in a very large number of countries there is no such advantage either on railroad or in mines. In particular, it is still a privilege for agriculture and fisheries, as well as in very few other areas. I do not know whether there is as wide a circle as there was before in Estonia, somewhere in the European Union. Maybe they are, but if they are, they are very few countries. I have already said my general position. I agree with those who state that it is not right in itself to support any area with this measure. It does not stimulate more sustainable use of fuel. Given the pressures on the environment, the goal of managing more resource-efficiently, the Europe 2020 objectives, our CO2 policy and everything else that Europe is aspiring to, it is not the most sensible way to promote this sector. However, as long as it is implemented in Europe, we cannot cancel it either if we want to be guided by the principle of equal treatment. If we jointly find better solutions in Europe for the sectors we want to promote, I will in any case support these other solutions. I do not consider this reasonable at all, but since this is the case now, we are not going to cancel it in Estonia either at the moment. The rumors that we want to cancel the benefit for farmers, fishermen and owners of individual boiler houses are not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U44	Thank you very much, Minister. No more questions for you. I will open negotiations and call my colleague Ester Tuiksoo to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The government came up very quickly in spring 2011 on the subject of modified special-marked fuel, and these really concern more than agriculture, but they were already very prematurely allowed to regulate the whole situation in autumn 2011. In this way, farmers also had a legitimate expectation that the use of specially labelled fuel would become more humane, and I am thinking of driving on national routes when there is special fuel in the machine, a problem that falls within the remit of the Tax and Customs Board. The Minister here spoke of options that would certainly be acceptable to the sector. However, he noted that farmers were satisfied with the existing system and agreed to postpone the new regulation. It's what it's like, but the obvious problems are pushing snow in winter and working in the woods, because they use the same machines as the ones on the field. The Minister has indeed studied the experiences of other countries. At the same time, I did not hear that it might be possible to apply, for example, a system in Finland where, if the farmer knows that he is using the road on the same day, he will carry out a transfer to the tax office in the morning with a certain amount agreed there and he can show the payment order on the way to the representative of the tax office or the police and confirm that a certain amount of the excise duty has been paid and he can legally drive this fuel on the road. Perhaps we should also round up the laws and make the situation normal until you come up with new conditions for State aid compensation? Indeed, it is not possible to come up with a perfect and fair system to the end, but we are absolutely certain that these questions will arise before the winter. When we move around our regions as ambassadors, we are asked these questions very often. However, as far as the agreement with agricultural organisations is concerned, it is certainly not an agreement. These organisations have understood the situation and have just stood by and are not satisfied with the situation. At present, the Tax and Customs Board is always able to punish a farmer for such misconduct, because that is the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U46	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone. But it's only after my hammer hit, Mr. Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U48	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I promise that I will not be so impatient from now on and will give you time to hammer. But I am standing here today before my good colleagues because we have a rather serious week of Riigikogu sittings and we have another week at least as serious. However, what matters is not just what is happening here in the Riigikogu building. We have seen this autumn that Estonian society is awakening to the same life as it was in our history 25 years ago. We are seeing developments that remind us of the upheaval that took place a quarter century ago: political decisions can no longer be made so easily and adopted in the quiet office or in the back rooms of the coalition. The Centre Party certainly welcomes the fact that the spirit of the People's Front is recovering and that the political awakening of the people forces more heated debates to be held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu as well. We acknowledge that there is a need to make joint efforts for the future of Estonia. During the economic crisis, a way has been acquired where decisions have been taken in haste, often without consulting stakeholders and without consulting experts. Stronger law has been used and this has led to very much unbalanced development. During the current government coalition, Estonia has become an expensive country where too many people have lost much of their purchasing power. The outflow of people, the fastest price increase in the euro area and the jobs lost need not be the inevitability of Estonia. However, next year will bring new problems for Estonians, precisely in connection with the sharp rise in electricity prices. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has tabled an amendment to the draft state budget for 2013 which, if it were to enter into force, would reduce the electricity excise duty to the European Union's minimum rate. This proposal would reduce the excise duty added to the price of electricity in Estonia four and a half times, as our electricity excise duty is just as much higher. Supporting this proposal will help to alleviate the price increase for all people and businesses in Estonia. If the government does not use the levers in its hands, i.e. the tax rulings to mitigate the rise in electricity prices, even Eesti Pank warns us that the rise in electricity prices will have a negative effect on economic growth. After all, this reduces the real income of households, and therefore our consumption and domestic demand suffers. This, in turn, means that, due to the weaker outlook for the economy, investment will decrease in the future and the demand for labour will also decrease. As long as the government departments continue to do nothing to mitigate the increase in electricity prices, we will be forced to continue with the organisation of the Riigikogu. Decisions can be made in the Riigikogu which slow down the rise in electricity prices. At present, however, more VAT is planned for the budget than for the price of electricity, since more VAT can be added to the higher price, and growing dividends from Eesti Energia are also planned. This is a lack of action on the part of government departments and against it here in the Riigikogu can only be achieved by using all democratic means, including obstructions. At the same time, if the coalition ambassadors acknowledge that the key to mitigating the rise in electricity prices in this hall is the reduction of electricity excise duty by 4.5 times to the minimum allowed in the European Union, the Group of the Estonian Central Party is ready to support the rapid processing of the 2013 state budget. The budget has the means to mitigate the rise in electricity prices, and it is the duty of the government, the sovereigns, to use these funds. Therefore, our aim here in the Riigikogu is not to hold Riigikogu meetings for our own sake, our aim is to achieve the use of means that will help to soften the rise in electricity prices next year. And that's why last week we held a night hearing. The key to preventing this week's night hearing is in the hands of the government union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U49	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U50	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's not much time, lots of information, there's no patience, so let's cut to the chase! Colleagues, do you know who is the biggest absentee we have here in the Riigikogu Collective? If you open our website, www.parlament.ee or www.riigikogu.ee, there is such a thing as statistics. You will open the link 'Participation in plenary sessions of the Riigikogu'. We've had a total of 194 sessions. I must inform you, with sadness, that the record is in the hands of our colleague, Valdo Randpere, who has been absent, if you believe the information on our website, 90 sessions, or 46.4% of the working time. But don't take too much pleasure, because 30 more members of the Riigikogu, if you believe what is on our official website, have missed 80 to 89 sessions and 54 more members of the Riigikogu, including myself, have participated 70 to 79 times and nine 60 to 69 more times. It is also remarkable that last year our Chairman of the Riigikogu, if you believe in our official website, was not working in this Chamber for one day!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U51	Really?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U52	I'll give you the printout, I've got it. If you look at more home pages, then, colleagues who are on TV, open the page of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party! There you will find the sentence that every politician of the Reform Party takes into account the basic positions of the liberal worldview when making everyday decisions on the welfare of Estonians, etc. The thing is, the word 'liberal' is written with a hyphen or slippery-real, so we have to understand that the word is derived from two words'slip' and 'rail'. Slick races! The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, however, has such a statement that 'the political landscape of the world has conservative people who... "Conservatives" are written in this way: conservatives. So canned wings, even though the endings are wrong. I would also like to talk about information about members of the Riigikogu. I checked my place, you check yours. The XI Riigikogu states with certainty that I was in the Riigikogu, I had a personal mandate, I took an oath, but the data of the XII Riigikogu shows that I was a member of the IX and X Riigikogu. Where is another member of my Riigikogu marked? So, Valdo Randpere, there's another interesting news about him. Take today's Castle Web, continue Media Monitoring! I did it this morning at 9:00 a.m., and suddenly I found out there's 24 news. News No 2: "Tallinn Reform Party elected Valdo Randpere as their leader." For fools who don't understand one at a time, News No 8: "Tallinn Reform Party chose Valdo Randpere as their leader," and for the absolutely dull news No 23: "Tallinn Reform Party chose Valdo Randpere as their leader." News No. 6, No. 11 and No. 20 report that Randpere does not rule out running for mayor of Tallinn. If there's time, I'll explain why these things are done. Go on. The first page of the landing website contains such links: 'Presents from 2012', 'Presents until 2011'. Let us ask: Where is 2011? There are drafts until 2011 and since 2012! Exactly the same: 'Protocols from 2012', 'Protocols until 2011'. Who's on it?! Who's doing this?! 'Change in working time since 1 January 2013', in what condition is it printed here? And in the Russian version, the cripples that are used here, I have no words for criticism! Finally, I have the last few seconds left to say: how can the results of electronic voting be believed and taken seriously at all if the representative body of our country, the state authority, cannot compile its home page without factual and grammatical errors?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U53	Thank you very much. Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U54	Would you like to take a look?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-19_U55	Yes, I do! Please, me too! There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.10 a.m.
