ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! Thirty-eight delegates registered as present, 63 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler and Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have nine questions. In order for us to be able to go through more of these questions, I will also give you the opportunity to ask two questions registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U2	The first question is from my colleague, Eiki Nestor, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U3	Thank you! Hi! When will the salaries of teachers rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U4	I expect teachers' salaries to rise from 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U5	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The euro came to the Estonian state largely at the expense of children and mothers. The victim is 450-kroon school allowance at the beginning of the academic year, partial cancellation of the parent's student loan, sick child care allowance, kindergarten programme, etc. I want to ask you: do you intend to sacrifice anything else at the expense of your children, or do you intend to do something in the country for your children, I mean, to give money for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U7	I don't think children could formulate the kind of question you've done right now. It is clear to every child that public finances should have been maintained anyway, regardless of whether Estonia had the goal of joining the euro zone or not. And it is certainly not the children's fault that the world was hit by the global financial crisis. Nor can there be any way to incriminate the financial crisis's cost-saving needs to the government as an anti-child act. As is well known, the government has allocated very large amounts of funds from the sale of Kyoto allowances for, among other things, the renovation of kindergartens. And today it can be said with great conviction that Kyoto and European Union funds have made much more money for kindergartens than this kindergarten program launched by the Riigikogu could have received.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U8	And now the last two questions registered on site. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U9	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I think we could have raised teachers' salaries from this year, too, if we had not increased the cost of protection by 1/5 per cent to 2% of GDP. Defence costs increased this year in North Korea, Greece and Russia, and we did so alongside them. Do you think it is right in difficult times, in times of crisis, to increase defence costs to this extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U10	The increase in defence costs is justified and I do not agree with you that it is possible to raise someone's salary at the cost of reducing defence costs. National defence, as we know, is not a luxury that one country can deal with in good times, and it is not something that can be abandoned in worse times. If the state is not engaged in national defence on an ongoing basis, then one day the defence of this country will be dealt with by unwanted power, and we will no longer have to deal with this defence ourselves. I wouldn't look at national defence as a bottomless source of all kinds of wage increases. As we know, educational expenditure in the Estonian state budget accounts for 7% of gross domestic product, which is the highest level of educational expenditure in the European Union. We are in the fourth place in the European Union after Cyprus, Denmark and Sweden in this respect. If we were to add 2%, that would be 2% spent one day, and we still don't have a source of financing. It makes more sense to go down the path offered by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, which is to carry out structural reforms in order to make much more effective use of taxpayers' money in the education sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U11	And I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U12	But, good Prime Minister, wouldn't there have been other sources to raise teachers' salaries? This issue has been up for the last few years and you have put together the state budget without taking into account your opposition opinion. Maybe there would have been some sources, though. They're going out on strike right now, so maybe we could work this out? Education has still been a priority for the Estonian people, as a result of which we have continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U13	The lack of money is not just in the education sector! Exactly the same lack of money in the field of defence has been lost by defence personnel, going to the private sector on top of a higher salary. Therefore, I do not consider it possible to cut salaries and reduce resources there in any way, so that resources can be increased on the other hand. We know there's a shortage of rescue officers, they'd like to get more money, they'd like to get more resources. You can always ask who. After all, pensions are not so high that we can be satisfied with them. We can only increase them by 4.4% next year. I ask: who should we have taken the money from to give a group a little more? The government didn't know better. We see the perspective of significantly improving the efficiency of the use of money. To this end, the reforms that the Ministry of Education and Research, the government and also the Riigikogu are currently preparing must be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U15	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to the Minister of Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since 2013, residents of local governments have been exempt from land tax. When this bill was processed in this Chamber, all the representatives of the coalition who went to the board promised that the local authorities would be compensated for the loss of income. Is there a mechanism and, if so, when can local authorities become familiar with it and express their views on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U17	That promise still stands. As you said, the amendment will enter into force from next year, although, as we can see, several municipalities have already made similar land tax exemptions on their own initiative. The precise mechanism has not been finally agreed by the government. I hope that in the coming months, this bill will reach the government and, as presented by the government, the Riigikogu. We have discussed several times with the Ministry of Finance which compensation mechanism is the most appropriate, and so far the preferred option has been to increase the proportion of personal income tax by the corresponding amount. This opinion has also been expressed in this very Chamber by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U18	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U19	Thank you. My question is this part of personal income tax that is intended for municipalities. When it was cut from 11.93 to 11.4%, the government coalition promised that if the economy recovers and is on the rise again, this percentage would be returned to the old level. We hear the Prime Minister saying that the economy is on the rise again. Why, then, has the draft hall not arrived to increase the proportion of personal income tax going to local governments to 11.93%? And this should not be done by compensating for the loss of land tax, because it was a cut that should be returned to the local authorities anyway, plus the loss of income from land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U20	We will have discussions on the budget for next year, and this issue will certainly be on the agenda again, as it has been every year. During the crisis, we were forced to implement this cut, as you know, and, of course, if the budget has more opportunities, we are discussing an increase in this percentage. Today, however, I really can't promise when it will be. I expect a gradual increase to take place. I am very sceptical in this respect that it can be increased immediately in one step in all the volumes that you mean, but a gradual increase must be started. I hope there will be an opportunity next year. However, since we do not yet have any forecasts of possible budget receipts for next year, it is too early to give you this kind of promise. I agree with you that these things need to be looked at separately. One is the substantive compensation for the land tax exemption and the other is the percentage of income tax, which was indeed 11.93 and is currently 11.4.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U21	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U22	Thank you. My second point of clarification concerns one of the Supreme Court rulings. A long time ago, the Supreme Court has said that the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu have not well defined the tasks of local government and the tasks of the state, or the financing of one or other tasks. It has been pointed out repeatedly that several national budgets that have been adopted in this Chamber do not take account of this Supreme Court ruling. What is your assessment as Regional Minister: does the 2012 state budget take account of the Supreme Court ruling or could it have been better done in some areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U23	The 2012 state budget certainly takes account of the Supreme Court's decision. A year earlier, a separate budget line has been drawn up in accordance with the operative part of the Supreme Court's decision, which states the tasks assigned to cities and municipalities, which are of a state nature, but whose execution has been delegated to local governments. They have been identified separately and separate funds have been earmarked for their execution. There has been a lot of criticism that this financial number is very small. Indeed, compared to the entire budget, it is a very small number, but this has been the general decision as to what these tasks are. There are relatively few tasks, which are considered by nature to be national and delegated to local authorities, and are not financially very large, especially in small municipalities. Inevitably, these sums are small. The decision on these tasks has also been seriously discussed with representatives of local authorities and national associations, and there have been no other proposals. We have gone to another set of additional explanations, because we want to make sure that we have been precise in defining the nature of the matter. The Ministry has written down all legal tasks performed by local authorities. Once again, we ask both the ministries and the representatives of the local authorities to tell us what they consider to be the kind of tasks that should have a separate budget line. So far, no other kind of proposals have come. But as I said, the Supreme Court's ruling will surely be enforced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U24	Now please, ladies and gentlemen, three issues registered on the ground. Let's start with my colleague, Kaia Iva.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U25	Thank you. At the present time, all organisations are probably in a pretty tight position with budget money, and there is no exception for municipalities. There has been quite a lot of talk about what the municipalities do not have enough money for, and also about those areas where the situation of the municipalities is slightly better this year, where the state has also been able to provide additional support to the municipalities, whether it be the money for road maintenance or the CO2 quota and some other options. Would you mind, please, stopping on these issues as well? In what areas can the state provide additional support to municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U26	There are a lot of different support programmes. The last positive indicator is the measure of supporting light traffic routes aimed at local governments, which the government has recently proposed, and for which the Riigikogu has provided separate additional amounts for regional support. In this way, the difficulties in this area can be somewhat mitigated, as it is difficult for municipalities to invest. If we look at this year's budget, it can generally be said that, as far as the lines of permanent running costs are concerned, the additional allocations made by the state are all relatively at the same level, but a clear increase of almost 50% is seen in the road-saving budget of local authorities, which has been one of the pains. It has also been discussed several times in this Chamber that many municipalities have had very serious financial difficulties and are unable to keep their roads clean. I'm sure it's a good thing there's more money for that. But there are a variety of support programmes, such as the well-known KOIT scheme. While this was a negative example of a kindergarten programme, our HOME scheme, which includes regional grants, has allocated much more money to municipalities in the form of grants for ordering kindergartens and creating new ones than was planned in the whole kindergarten programme, and even more to schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U27	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Can you confirm that no municipality will lose money due to the exemption from tax on homeland, with no reduction in budget revenue? Does the planned increase in income tax compensate all municipalities for the loss of income?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U29	Such one mechanism for one cannot, in substance, be created. We can see that several municipalities have already taken this step on their own initiative and have released residents from the land tax in 2012. If, now, in 2013, the state exemption comes into force, what will we compare with? Where is the loss of income for the municipality that we are talking about? At the same time, the situation changes with regard to the calculation of land tax, whether or not a person is registered for this place of residence. All these basic data changes. Certainly, as the number of inhabitants in many municipalities is very low, the deletion of ten people from the register may already mean quite a change in the income from land tax. Or change in property, for example, people sell their property. In this sense, we certainly cannot say clearly that it is not possible to find any municipalities among 226, where this amount would be at least the same. But in the big picture, it is important that the money received by the municipalities as a whole from the land tax is preserved in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U30	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. When the homeowners' land tax exemption arrived in this hall, we all knew it was pretty badly prepared. There were no analyses, no coordination with local authorities, etc. This put representatives of local governments in a pretty anxious position. It is now likely to be compensated by an increase in the share of personal income tax that goes to local governments. This year, the Ministry of Finance has planned an old currency of 4 million kroons to change the whole system. The Ministry of Finance has said that administration of all this law will be extremely costly. Don't you think the state is using taxpayers' money rather recklessly? By adopting such laws, perhaps the state spends much more than it benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U32	Revenues from land tax are much more important. I would point out that we are only talking about the tax exemption for the land under home. Larger taxpayers are often, for example, companies or individuals with several properties. They don't all live on them. In my opinion, this was a good law and a good proposal, and it protects homeowners. I think that at the beginning there really are the costs of adjusting certain software, and other costs, it is clear that the system needs to be changed, but it was also necessary to make the costs necessary to operate the old system. I believe that, in the long term, once the new system is in place, there will be no more transition costs. Ultimately, however, people will have confidence that they will not have the costs they cannot bear. This confidence is growing, and it is a goal that is summed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U34	The next question is from my colleague, Margus Hanson, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Analysis of foreign representations prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows that the Republic of Estonia has 46 representations, employs almost 160 diplomats and representatives of other ministries and institutions as sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But many embassies are relatively small. Four out of 46 are only one representative, 17 is two. Of course, in a context of limited resources, we need to look at how to meet the needs of the country and discuss how to develop representation, where it may even be restricted and in which regions-countries there is more representation, after all. What are some developments in the structure and development of this 2012 representation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U36	Yes, the Estonian External Action Service is a living organism like Estonia and society as a whole. That is why we are already confident this year that there will be some changes in our network of foreign representations, as well as in external representation. But what's planned may not be everything, something could happen in a year. At first it has been decided and known that during the year we will prepare the opening of the Estonian embassy in India. This is primarily due to foreign policy reasons, i.e. India's ever-increasing role in international politics and its potential for further development. Secondly, we also have economic reasons for this. The interest of Estonian companies and universities in communicating with their partners in India has clearly increased. And thirdly, the number of consular reasons in Estonia who travel in India and are in trouble there has increased. All these factors combined have led us to open the Estonian diplomatic mission during this year. In addition, during the spring, our new representative office in Astana, Kazakhstan, which also covers Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan, will be able to start working fully. If the rented rooms are repaired, hopefully already in spring the agency will be able to start working there. In addition, there are two other plans: during spring-summer, two people are to be appointed in Tallinn, who would be non-resident ambassadors: one in the countries of Southeast Asia, first and foremost Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and probably Australia, and the other would cover four Western Balkan countries from Tallinn: Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This will improve the focus and focus on these regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U37	Please, Mr Hanson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U38	Thank you. The consular service brings in not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government, but also the economy of the Republic of Estonia considerably more through those tourists who come here. We also know and see on the streets that in recent years there has been an increase in the flow of tourists coming to Estonia from the east, especially at the turn of the year, which creates certain problems at consulates. More specifically, I would like to ask you about the Pihkva Consulate, which has grown out of its premises a long time ago and needs some solutions. Is it possible to take any quick steps there this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U39	Yes, the rooms of the Pihkva Consulate are indeed somewhat out of the way. Right now, this activity is about looking for a possible new space where our consulate can move to Pihkva. The background to all of this is, as you also mentioned, that indeed in recent years the number of visa applications in Estonian representations has increased considerably. We have tried to alleviate the problem by increasingly issuing long-term, multiple-entry visas so that people do not have to come back to Estonia every time they wish to travel. Despite this, the number of visa applications is increasing, which means that new and new people who want to travel to Estonia and who have not done so before will be added. This trend is in itself very positive, although it will exponentially increase the workload of consular officials in issuing visas in late November and December. However, I think we have more or less managed to keep all these speeds within reasonable limits. But yes, the physical environment of Pihkva's representation is looking for a new solution in the near future, and it is being pursued.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U40	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Raivo Järvi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U41	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, It is good to hear that we will eventually be covered by Australia, where so many fortune seekers are headed from this land of Mary. I know from the experience of young talent in our family that they had a very useful lesson when they learned that money did not grow on trees. But my question is about increasing the revenue of the state and how to get foreign investments, how to get potential new destinations. The Enterprise Estonia is involved in this topic. Is it possible that the funds at the disposal of the EAS will be placed at the disposal of either our honorary consuls or embassies if this task can be carried out better by their channels?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U42	This answer will be long because the possible reasons why one or the other undertaking or company decides to make its investment are very different. It is, of course, based on the fact that the environment in which investment is made is sufficiently attractive, with clear laws, with little corruption, or totally free of corruption and legal certainty that the health of this economy is in order. That's the basis of everything. Then how do you explain and introduce all this to one such country here in northern Europe? There are, of course, different ways of doing this that you mentioned some of them. We have more than 130 honorary consuls today. This is one of the resources which, more and more clearly than before, must also be directed towards supporting entrepreneurship and attracting investment, taking into account the familiarity circle of these people and the communication network. The second option is EAS with its representatives. It was yesterday that we had the last meeting with representatives of EAS and the Chamber of Commerce to talk about these things and to intensify cooperation. The network of Estonian representations, members of the Riigikogu through their external contacts, companies, of course, etc., etc. After all, every member of society can be an introducer of Estonia in other parts of the world. All these factors together should produce the expected result. But, of course, everything starts with what we do for ourselves here in Estonia, which could also have an attractive effect on others.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U43	Now the last issue registered on the spot. My colleague Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U44	Dear Minister, The kind of question that informs a little at first and asks later. I am the president of the Estonian-Thailand parliamentary group. Now, for the pleasure of all of us in the Thai Parliament, a Thai-Estonian parliamentary group has been set up, which I have already met with the Chairman and Members. We plan to visit them here in Estonia by the end of May, with topics such as visa liberalisation, air connections, development of business relations. But my question is specific: I heard that a non-resident ambassador will work, who also includes Thailand. It is undoubtedly better than the fact that Beijing embassy is doing this, but Beijing remains a little distant. But are there no plans to create a full representation in either Thailand or Singapore, which would be such a central place in the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U45	During the last few or three months, we have prepared a longer development plan for foreign missions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will extend more specifically until 2015 and will actually look further from there. In cooperation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, discussions on this issue have now taken place. In this document there is a perspective that in some or rather initially in one of the countries of Southeast Asia Estonia could have a representation, in full writing. Whether it is Bangkok, it is not precisely defined, but it is in itself under discussion. Looking at the current situation, the greatest need for representation in Thailand is, above all, due to our citizens and consular issues. We have two honorary consuls in Thailand, one in Bangkok and the other in Phuket, to the south, partly covering this need now, but in a more distant perspective, this is certainly the place of a very serious debate, and perhaps in a few years' time we will have to make a choice and establish a representative of the state. Yeah, so far, Thailand has covered our embassy in Beijing. That's what we're going to change, the region would go into a portfolio of non-resident ambassadors who would cover other countries in the region and would have focused exclusively on that region there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U46	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U47	The next question is from my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U48	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You have repeatedly confirmed in this Chamber that the government supports the knowledge-based development of the Estonian economy. In the light of what I have said, I am deeply surprised at the position of the Ministry of the Environment regarding possible studies of our phosphorus deposits. The position is that no one is allowed to investigate, but they do not have a specific plan of their own. Estonia is known to be the largest stock of phosphorite in Europe. Do you, to put it mildly, share short-sighted, day-to-day populist views on research?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U49	We know there's a difference between research and research. Knowledge is always worth more than not knowing. At one time in school, we both probably had to write an essay about who was more important to a person - a harsh truth or a comforting lie. Not knowing is equal to a comforting lie to me. However, if the acquisition of knowledge is seriously damaging to the environment, to people's living conditions, it must be considered very carefully whether such acquisition of knowledge at a relatively high cost is justified. If we were to get the knowledge of the Internet, the library, the analysis of the lab data, the people of Ida-Virumaa would hardly have a problem with it if the state got smarter. However, if the acquisition of knowledge means that drilling operations must be carried out, which may damage the level of groundwater, the water level of wells in the population, if they can make water quality worse or other complications may arise, then it must be considered very seriously whether such knowledge is justified. We know that these are rocks that are self-flammable and that all of this can lead to radioactive contamination. And if we know that applying the knowledge we acquire is not possible anyway, there is no convincing reason to cause them suffering.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U50	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U51	Thank you. Estonian reserves of phosphorus are estimated at approximately 12 billion tonnes, so they are even larger than oil shale. The uranium reserves in the high-level region amount to nearly 30000 tonnes. We have earthy metals, fertiliser production plants, but we refuse to study the supply of raw materials. This is very illogical and also extremely stupid. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U52	In the past two minutes, I've already told you how I feel about this thing. We know that there is also gold in the sea water, but on the other hand we also know that there is no point in producing gold from sea water economically. If we know that we have a lot of phosphorus somewhere, but with what we know so far, we don't have the kind of technology that will allow this phosphorus to be processed, safe for the environment, for humanity, it doesn't really matter how much phosphorus it is and exactly where it is. These things should go hand in hand: safe technology for the treatment of phosphorite and the treatment of deposits on top of it, and the determination of the volume of stocks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U53	A second point of clarification, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! It is true that we need to study wisely and perhaps there is no point in examining all things, but I think we should look into it. Probably for economic reasons in 20 years, no one will be mining there, but people should be given a signal that one day it might come. Right now we're talking about not coming at all. This phosphorus study was requested by VKG, which is a private company. Do you think it suddenly happens that the DA's office is opening a file on me today, and after a while, there's gonna be a pop-up and he's gonna take my computer with me because I've asked three questions for one company?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U55	As far as obtaining knowledge is concerned, in a world-view perspective, I should be treated exactly as I am with you. I do not think that these questions are about dealing with influence. Knowledge is always worth more than not knowing, and if knowledge can be obtained in such a way that no one has to suffer because of it, then the answer is only: yes, of course, knowledge must be obtained. But if the acquisition of knowledge leads to negative consequences for the environment, for people, then we need to consider very carefully what price we want to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U56	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will finish working on this interesting question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U57	Let us go to the next question that my colleague, Kajar Lember, will put to Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U58	Thank you. Good minister! Our good colleague and your party partner, Tõnis Palts, sent a nice letter to the islanders and muhulasts a few days ago, where he, in addition to the beauty of the others, delights with the objects funded by EAS on the islands. This is, of course, very nice in itself, and I am also very pleased that investments will be made. But my question is that he doesn't say anything about EAS or projects or municipal applications, it's more like he made a direct contribution to directing investment funds. Some local government leaders and other people involved in the project have expressed bitter comments in the public on the subject that the ambassador is decorating himself with foreign feathers. And now I would like to ask: as your minister, and as an influential person in the process of channeling EAS regional funds, have you noticed the influence and power of your party partner that he had reason to refer to such influence in his approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U59	Mr. Lember, on your question, I was also familiar with the letter from Tõnis Palts. I think it's a very good letter, and it describes very well what has recently been positive born in Saaremaa. It is clear that these things have come true because the Riigikogu has foreseen the respective possibilities in the budget and that the executive power, or members of the government, when we talk about subsidies that have come to the region, has approved the respective programmes. As a result, active islanders have been able to submit their applications and receive support for their good projects. When I read this letter, I see precisely this recognition of those active islanders who have submitted their applications. These projects have been good, an excellent example is Saaremaa competence centre for small ship builders. As a result of the active work, Estonia still has very high support for its county. If you are now asking about influence, the members of the Riigikogu will certainly have an impact on which budget will be adopted, whether or not this government will be supported. I would be very sad if you would say, Mr Lember, that the members of the Riigikogu have no influence. I still hope everyone in 101 has a very big impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U60	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U61	Thank you. Well, the people who pointed that out maybe they were expecting recognition, but not self-praising. My second question is also motivated by this beautiful appeal to the people of Saaremaa and Muhumaa. I do not mention here my personal opinion on the future of the bridge, as well as on the praising of the party and the history of the government, and I ask: does the position of the Member of the People's Party in the letter on one of the largest possible regional investments, the future of the Saaremaa Bridge, correspond to the views of the members of the IRL government? Tõnis, as an honest man, says: 'The preachers of the construction of the bridge today simply manipulate the islanders and this is not a real undertaking in our natural, social and economic circumstances. ' Can this be considered the official position of the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U62	IRL members have had very different views on this issue, but the general view of the members of the government is that we await the proposal of the Saaremaa Bridge Expert Committee. Then it can be assessed whether the project is cost-effective and reasonable, whether it has a sufficiently low impact on the environment, so that we can afford it. All of this is appreciated at the request of this committee, very expensive studies are carried out in very large volumes, and ultimately we have to decide on them, not only on emotional considerations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U63	A second point of clarification, Mr Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U64	Having listened to this substantive answer, the point is to answer it. But my third question, however, is on a slightly different subject, but it still concerns power and influence. Kuressaare Youth Interest Centre is operating very successfully in Kuressaare, where it is involved in providing recreational education and organising youth work. To date, there has been a situation where the development of this institution has started to be hindered by the question of the property of the building in which it is located. This has created problems in planned developments and broadening the possibilities of the centre of interest. This is the property of the State within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. Kuressaare City Council applied for municipal property on 27 October last year, but it seems that although Kuressaare and the country have the same coalition in power, the problem still does not want to move towards a solution. As far as I am concerned, this solution is currently on the table of the Minister for Regional Affairs and so I ask whether the Minister can influence the process in a positive way or, at least, send his position to the concerned municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U65	The final decision whether or not to transfer property belonging to a particular state, including real estate, to a local government is taken by the government in this case and the matter has not yet come to the government's agenda. There are different considerations here. I would point out that for many years this institution has worked in such a way that the institution is municipal, but the building of the state, and the cooperation has gone well in general, in my opinion. It has been achieved and will be achieved now. What will the government's position as to whether or not to transfer this property free of charge to the local government is a little early to say. I believe that this will be a positive solution, but this transfer of free assets is always a matter of broader consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U66	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Lauri Laas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Since this is about influence and power, I will ask the question that has been bothering me for some time. Namely, some time ago, IRL's lead politician Urmas Reinsalu, in connection with the Arctic Sea hijacking case, said that if we hand out Kross to Russia today, we will give up Laari tomorrow. Do you have any information as IRL's leader and minister about Mart Laar's involvement in the Arctic Sea hijacking?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U68	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U69	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U70	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. On this question, I would like to touch on everything that is happening in Otepää. There, the failure of the Environmental Board's letter by the local government caused a 'impact and power' that triggered a chain reaction. The Environmental Board granted a private company a mining permit, although there was a court settlement where local people were right. But people's opinions weren't taken into account. You, as Minister of Regional Affairs, are still indirectly monitoring what is happening in all regions and municipalities. The municipality government has violated § 3 points of the Local Government Organisation Act. The local authority must comply with the law in the performance of its duties and duties...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U71	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U72	... and the municipality and city dwellers have the right to participate in the implementation of local government. What's your opinion? I'd like to have your comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U73	If you confirm that there has been a specific breach of the law, I must take time off and clarify the circumstances as to whether this has been the case or not and whether national supervision should not apply. When we talk about the substance of the matter, it is clear that, on such issues, local authorities have a very high degree of autonomy in deciding what is happening on their territory. We've all wanted them to be autonomous. That is the point of local democracy. It is a matter of how it is implemented, whether the issues raised with the local population are adequately discussed as to whether democracy works in this sense. If you ask for my assessment, I think it is certainly not good practice to simply leave the letter unanswered and, as a result, some mechanism will apply, as you described. It should still be bold to say whether we agree or disagree with a new mine or other object on our territory. We should discuss it and then let people know publicly and clearly that we have made such a decision. Then you can also lodge protests, complaints, appeals, anything under the law. Such a creepy solution is certainly not the right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U74	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U75	The next question is from my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U76	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Are you aware of the serious situation in Estonia today with drug use? We are injecting drugs in more than any other European country, and in the ranking of drug deaths, we are uncompetitively the first in Europe. In Latvia, for example, there are almost 11 times less of them, and the proportion of HIV-infected drug users is also the highest in Estonia compared to other countries of the European Union. We are 22 times the European average. Among the students, drug use has increased sharply in the last ten years: 36% have already tried. Please, tell me what the reason is! Why are our young people so different and choose such a disastrous path?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U77	There is no answer to one question. But the trend you have referred to is true and, of course, it is very regrettable that, especially among students, drug use has increased considerably over the past 20 years. According to a survey conducted in 1995, 7% of students aged 16 to 17 had tried drugs in Estonia, while according to the 2007 surveys, there were 16 to 17-year-olds who claimed to have tried narcotic drugs in their lifetime, already 30%. This is a very worrying trend. I hope this trend has stopped by now. This is indicated by a number of indirect indicators such as HIV/AIDS infection. Basically, there is a very strong correlation between the spread of injecting drug users and HIV/AIDS, and in the case of HIV/AIDS, we see some inhibition. This leads to the conclusion that certain changes in society have also taken place in relation to drug addiction. We have implemented nationally the same measures that Western European countries have taken and that have also been implemented by our fateful Central and Eastern European countries. We also believe that the efforts made will be successful and that young people in Estonia will no longer consider drugs, especially ecstasy and other such things to be an innocent remedy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U78	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U79	Thank you. The situation has not improved at all and it is absolutely not about ecstasy. I would like to give an example here that while young people in Europe are mainly using heroin, in Estonia fentanyl, or white Chinese, or trimethylfentanyl, or white Persian, is preferred, believe it or not, hundreds of times stronger than heroin. So the tendency is extremely dangerous. Why do you think our youngsters are used to taking the worst, strongest of all, which are the causes of these deaths? That's not a new problem. You've been Prime Minister for years, how have you tried to solve this? Anyway, it's getting worse right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U80	I cannot quite agree with this final statement. I believe you have no assurance of this either. All the indicators indicate that it doesn't get any worse, there are certain signs of improvement. Drug addiction is a dual measure to be taken in the fight against drug addiction. One part is the power structures, i.e. measures falling within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior, that is to reduce the availability of narcotic drugs. The answer to your question may also consist in using what is more easily received. More resources need to be deployed to reduce the availability of narcotic drugs. The other half is what the Ministry of Social Affairs mainly deals with. This is all kinds of services, change of syringes, substitution treatment, methadone treatment, a daily newspaper, rehab, rehabilitation, counselling services. Counselling services are also precautionary for minors to explain the risks posed by the use of narcotic drugs, as well as preventive advice for parents. These are practically all the measures that have been taken throughout the world, where drug addiction is a problem. Estonia will use all these measures, assuming that they will be effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U81	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U82	Thank you. By the way, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur admitted on Monday that the situation was very difficult for us. Let me give you an example: the number of HIV-infected drug users per million inhabitants is around 63.4, but the average European average is 2.87 - the difference is still several times. It is also a question, as the specialists point out, that we had quite a stop in the initial period between prevention and prevention, since cuts were made precisely at the expense of preventive care. The real treatment remained, but the prevention money was taken away. Mr Pevkur said that a government committee should be fully considered. What do you think of that? Are we setting up a government committee and still taking very courageous action?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U83	In my two previous answers, I fully agreed with what you said about the Minister for Social Affairs at the moment. He admitted that the situation was difficult, and so do I. But Hanno Pevkur has not claimed that the situation is getting worse, and neither am I. It is one thing to admit that the situation is difficult, but another is to argue from the point of view of this first argument that it is getting worse. There's no reason for us to say it's getting worse right now. I also disagree with the withdrawal of funds from preventive treatment and preventive measures in times of crisis. I say the opposite: even in times of crisis, the amount of money has been increased, not cut, to combat drug addiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U84	And I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! Our young people are well-informed about the dangers of drugs. There are classes in human education, great training, all sorts of great projects being made to fill young people's leisure time, some kind of prevention is taking place. But I see a problem elsewhere. I see the problem that our young people lack a clear goal to move towards. There was once the Ten Commandments of Moses, once the code of morality of a Communist builder, now there is no common purpose. Why has the Government of the Republic not inspired the creation of an ideological programme that is inspired by spirituality and patriotism and which would set a goal for young people to move forward together in a clean, drug-free and honest manner? And so that their goal is not to escape from their homeland as they now dream, but to want to stay together and clean here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U86	Well, the proposal to establish a state religion in Estonia was now a very bold proposal. I don't think you meant that very seriously. I also believe that you do not think that all the young people who have gone to different universities in the world are immediately drug addicts, that they have left their home country and preferred to study in top universities in the world. I do not share your view that our young people are well-informed about the harmfulness of drug addiction. If that were the case, they wouldn't be using drugs. But these figures, which I mentioned earlier, that 7% of students had taken drugs in 1995, 30% in 2007, clearly reflect that young people are not aware of the harmful effects of drugs. On the contrary, it is precisely the lack of information among young people that the studies confirm. They think there's something innocent about the ecstasy pill somewhere in a nightclub that doesn't have any serious consequences for life. The attitude of young people in particular needs to change, and then drug use is likely to decline.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U87	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Thank you for your questions and, honourable Members, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U88	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! We will start the second working week session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U89	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to ask Hanno Pevkur on behalf of 13 delegates. This applies to patients not being treated. In 2011 a week before Christmas, the heart doctor Hasso Uuetoa's loss of trust was immediately fired from the North Estonian Regional Hospital. The main reason was that, according to Postimees, on 13 January, he participated in operations at the heart centre of the so-called competing East-Tallinn Central Hospital. Hasso Uuetoa is the only specialist in specific treatment in Estonia and therefore his dismissal soon took the hope of treatment from 88 patients suffering from cardiac arrhythmias. In this regard, we have seven questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U90	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U91	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It is an honour for me, on behalf of the delegates of the Centre Party Group, to present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on the subject of checking the use of compliant tyres. Everyone is aware that the difficult winter road conditions have led to a large number of road accidents in recent weeks, where, among other things, one of the causes of accidents is the non-conformity of tyres. Information on poor road conditions is constantly being provided, but what has been the contribution of the Police and Border Guard Board to the verification of tyre conformity? In the case of non-compliant tyres, the driver poses a risk not only to himself but also to others, so it is not appropriate for the state to take the view that the law lays down requirements and the person is obliged to comply with them. The country's very important role is to develop an attitude that requires constant control and continuous communication. On this point, the members of our group have eight questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U92	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour, on the basis of the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of 17 January, to issue a draft law amending the Chancellor of Justice's Act and the Civil Servants' Titles and Grades Act. The draft proposes to allow the Chancellor of Justice greater flexibility in presenting the annual review. Secondly, the draft aims to give the Chancellor of Justice greater discretion in dealing with appeals to him, and thirdly, to regulate some organisational matters in a comparable way to other constitutional institutions, such as the National Audit Office and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U94	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the five members of the Central Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister for Justice. According to the Ministry of Finance, 738 people have been unduly detained in the last 11 years, to whom the state paid 31 million kroons to compensate for lawlessness committed by law enforcement authorities. In addition, the largest benefits have been paid in 2005 at EEK 369000, EEK 436000 in 2006, EEK 552000 in 2007, etc. On this basis, we will put ten questions to the Minister for Justice and we hope that this inquiry will also find a reasonable debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U96	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over a draft by the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu concerning the appointment of a new member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U98	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby introduce you to the inquiry into the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. You are certainly aware that the construction and financing of the study building of the Estonian Academy of Arts is subject to extensive discussion in society. We would also bring this debate to this Riigikogu Chamber if the minister had to answer the question. In fact, we would like to know the evaluation of the decision of the Archimedes Foundation by the Minister of Education and Research. We are interested in his vision of how the Academy of Arts should proceed with its art education. What analyses are behind this decision? How is the Academy of Arts planned to resolve the situation? We are also interested to see where the funds that will be available when the decision to finance the new school building of the EEA is lifted will be directed. We expect the Minister to answer these questions, perhaps we can find out what his vision of the future of art education in Estonia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U100	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and four questions, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft Act on the Ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), launched on 16 January, Lead Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, initiated on 17 January, the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act amending § 32 of the Citizenship Act, initiated on 17 January, by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; fourthly, the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated on 17 January, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U101	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft law 84 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 89 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 84 amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U102	We will move on to the second item, the second reading of the draft law 108 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I ask Aare Heinvee, member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Rural Affairs on 10 January. Two amendments were received by the deadline, from Jaak Allik and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party. Jaak Allik's proposal was presented by the chairman of the committee, Kalvi Tõud. The proposal provided for the deletion of the word 'Narva-Jõesuu' from § 10 (1) 2 of the draft, i.e. the city of Narva-Jõesuu from the national defence restrictions. The justification was the close historical and forward-looking relationship of Narva-Jõesuu as an evolving resort town with vacationers from St. Petersburg. Mikhail Stalnukhin, the representative of the second proposers, introduced the amendment to the new paragraph of § 10 of the draft, in respect of which the limitation provided for in subsection 1 of this section would not apply to a natural person residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit who acquires immovable property of up to 0,2 hectares. In their explanation, both proposers referred to the possibility of acquiring immovable property in these areas through companies registered in Estonia. Meelis Mälberg, representative of the initiator of the draft act, did not support the amendments, stating the position of the National Defence Commission, in which the National Defence Committee stresses the need for national defence restrictions. However, restrictions could be based not on the boundaries of the municipalities as a whole, but on the proximity of immovable property to a defence or security object and to a state border. The respective proposals will be developed by a working group set up by the Ministry of Defence within six months and then the law can be re-established. The Government of the Republic also considers that it is not appropriate to amend the restrictions laid down in the current Act before the results of the analysis of the national defence restrictions in force. The Commission voted to take account of the amendments. Both amendments were rejected by 2 votes in favour and 5 against. The Commission decided unanimously to send 108 to second reading on 18 January 2012 and to propose to the Assembly that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U104	Thank you, good waitress! You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U105	Thank you. Dear waitress, Although I do know the answer, I ask for the verbatim report: was there any specific reasons in the committee that could negatively affect national defence if we decided that it would be possible to sell 0.2 hectares to a permanent resident of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U106	Thank you for your question. The Commission also discussed this aspect. The opinion was that it might not really affect, but in order not to resolve this issue as a single issue, we maintained that we were waiting for the positions of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U107	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U108	Dear waitress, I heard from your speech that within six months, the National Defence Committee promised to give its position, as you have just said. At first, I realized that the Department of Defense gave the position, but that's not the point. Since this issue is currently being dealt with and probably will continue to be dealt with by the Committee on Rural Affairs, did the Committee on Rural Affairs also take any power to verify whether this promise, which was made, would be fulfilled in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U109	Thank you. We did not assume this right of scrutiny, but we are certainly in contact with the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U110	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I still did not understand the danger to the state of people who, for example, in Narva, could own 0.2 ha of gardening land, say, third-country nationals or owners of grey passports, who have been living here for tens of years, several generations. There's quite a few of them. What is the risk on the part of the state if they become owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U112	Thank you. It is not because of this question that there is a chapter of national defence restrictions in the law and also in the draft, and on this very issue we held a dialogue with the National Defence Committee. The Committee on Rural Affairs considers it very clear that the Committee on National Defence and its partners are specialists on these issues, because the Committee on Rural Affairs itself is not competent to take a very reasoned and correct position here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U113	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U114	Honourable waitress! The question is strictly legal, so let's throw out politics. As far as I know, there are enough people in the border zone who belong to third countries, specifically related to Russia. Did the Commission also discuss the issue of Russia's border regime and documentation in Estonia's border areas? Rumors have been that Russia has a border zone with a completely special regime. Are these rumors true? That would be horrible!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U115	Thank you for your question. This is not the legal way we discussed this issue, and I do not have this information either. It is well known that restrictions by another country exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U116	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, On the previous issue, I believe that there was a proposal to coordinate our laws with the laws of a neighbouring country. Is the reference to such practice that in future decisions should be taken by the Riigikogu based on the legislation of the Russian Federation suitable for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U118	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U119	Thank you. It is certainly not possible for any country to lay down conditions with which it should coordinate, but good neighbourly cooperation, especially between neighbouring countries, is always to be welcomed and life leading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U120	Dear waitress, My question was inspired by Mr Gräzin's question. As is well known, the Commission has an analysis at its disposal which shows that there are no such restrictions in Finland or Latvia. The Commission does not know whether the border regime or restrictions on Estonia, Finland and Latvia by Russia differ in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U121	Thank you. I don't exactly remember, even though there was some talk about these issues, there was an overview, but in memory, it's no different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U122	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U123	Well, there's still a lot of restrictions about Finland, but okay. I would like to continue on the question of my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. Do you understand, and does it even come up this way, that the question is not whether we are allowing Russian laws to influence us, but whether there is an elementary international principle of reciprocity, that, just like that on the other side of the border, it is also on this side of the border, and we are imposing just as much on Russia. That is international law. Or did you miss that moment and really think it was Stalnuking?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U124	Thank you. Such a situation was known to us, and it did affect our decisions a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U125	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! If I understood your speech correctly, some of the questions that are currently under discussion have not yet been decided and will be discussed and pointed out by the government, the respective committees or ministries through the Commission or the working group. For example, the question I asked you about in the previous question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U127	Thank you. You yourself answered your question. That is exactly how the working group set up at the Ministry of Defence deals with it and develops principles that will also reach the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U128	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Good fellows! Do you want to open negotiations? They want me to open negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pretty sure that the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property has taken the most of the time, alongside the state budget, in the work of this Riigikogu. Thus, one of the most important issues for the functioning of our country has been whether citizens who are in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit can be allowed to acquire immovable property in the so-called border zone up to 0.2 hectares, more simply whether or not to allow areas and huts close to Narva for normal civil circulation. A large part of them are already already in the real possession of persons holding a permanent residence permit for a long time in Estonia and the resulting security threat, as we are trying to find out, we have been living on a daily basis for 20 years. At first glance and for a normal mind, it's not a problem. Fortunately, the Government of the Republic also reached the same position as the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Agriculture, together with the entire coalition of government, and the legislative amendment offered by some members of the Social Democratic Party and the Central Party, or rather, a small welcome was once supported by thousands of countrymen who lived here for a long time or even born here. Then, as I read in the newspaper, the Defence Police took a different position, and now we see the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Riigikogu dance to the power of the Defence Police when making political decisions. This is, of course, a political decision, because no one has been able to prove the national defence threat of the situation in the long discussions that took place in this Chamber. Especially in view of the fact that neither Finland nor Latvia has such a restriction and these countries are still in place and do not know what kind of risk is programmed into them. Why the defense police take such a view is also easy to guess. As bureaucratic researchers have long made clear, every bureaucratic system must constantly think about all kinds of risks in this case in order to protect and increase its compositions and budget. However, why has the government coalition actually gone on to increase Estonia's security risk by bullying thousands, if not tens of thousands, of our fellow countrymen living in Ida-Virumaa, with this decision and with many others like it daily and pettyly, and by increasing their alienation from the Estonian state, and I am afraid that the cause of this is beyond my comprehension. The second amendment to the draft law under discussion concerns the Narva-Jõesuu, which I ask to remove from the list of so-called border zones in the draft, because restrictions on the sale of real estate are hindering the normal development of the resort town. Some of the real estate built in Narva-Jõesuu is already under the control of citizens of the Russian Federation through legal entities registered in Estonia. I find, in my naivety, that security considerations, too, would probably be better and easier to control if it were direct investments, not through front companies. In this regard too, the government coalition disagrees with me. I don't know what to say here. The laws of nature and economics cannot be passed, so this decision will be taken sooner or later anyway and Narva-Jõesuu will be able to develop successfully. Fortunately, Prime Minister Ansip was more or less of the same when he answered my question in Question Time. Anyone who deliberately wants to slow down history may vote against this amendment, but everyone should take responsibility, because it would be strange to hide the party's command on such an obvious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U130	Thank you! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U131	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, So let's just say we've got the situation we've got right now. This is because any hardened thug and bandit can buy a residence permit in Estonia, after which they will be helped to register a company, a legal person and through it they will be able to buy any amount of land along the border as much as they want. But for those people who have lived here for the rest of their lives, who pay taxes, who, how to say it now, are Estonian patriots, I think differently about the post, there is no possibility. You know, last autumn, I had an interesting conversation with a narva who's been living in Ireland for several years now and comes here once a year. We talked, talked about it, and it turned out to be amazing to him, compared to Ireland, where he now lives, he already takes Estonia as a foreign country, where he notices what we no longer notice, how much hatred we have for our people, how much envy there is, how much intolerance there is. We are absolutely extraordinary in this sense. Ladies and gentlemen, There is currently a draft before you, accompanied by two amendments. I refer to the second amendment. We can reduce this anger and envy a little, and here we make our choice during the vote. I think that any normal person should take the right decision in a situation where he has the opportunity to improve something that needs to be improved. I would remind you that once this bill went to a third reading in this form, and I call for support for another amendment in order to slightly improve the situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U132	Thank you. Good fellows! I sincerely ask that we be quieter in this Chamber, because this conversation interferes with those who wish to listen and also interferes with the person who is performing in the Riigikogu Chair. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to have a long discussion because the draft has already been dealt with here in several acts and my position is well known to you. I would like to make a brief reminder of how our Russian-speaking compatriots will adopt the results of the forthcoming vote, where the coalition will vote down the proposals of the Socialists and the Centre Party to allow them to buy up to 0.2 hectares of land in border regions. In my parliamentary period alone, which has been relatively short, a series of events and decisions has actually already developed. When we dealt with Bill 68 on the Amendment of the Citizenship Act here, Mr Herkel said that 1500 stateless minors born in Estonia are such a small problem that it is not necessary to change the law. If, now, it has actually come to light a long time ago, but now also in the public domain, that the state has never issued an Estonian passport to a person because of a mistake and has repeatedly renewed it, human courtesy and common sense say that if a mistake is discovered, a way should be found to recognise these people as a citizen. However, the Minister of the Interior says that there is nothing to do, now apply for a residence permit, for 15 years you were citizens, now you are nobody and you are going under the Aliens Act. And if the coalition now says that buying 0,2 ha of land here by people who lived almost their whole lives and, in some cases, were born here, is a security risk for Estonia, please apologize, but it is really hard for these people to believe in this rhetoric that their country cares about all its fellow countrymen, nationality and native language. I somehow get the impression that the IRL loves Estonians in a national romantic way; the Reform Party, on the other hand, agraarromantically Estonia. But you could rather love Estonian society, as multicultural as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U134	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U135	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I was not going to speak, but since we are talking very pragmatically, I will try to clarify the situation again with a few words. Not politically, not morally, not ethically, but pragmatically. For decades, for example, in gardening cooperatives around Narva, quite a lot of land has been cultivated in a family and generational way. At present, there is a situation that they, let us say, citizens of a third country or non-Estonian country, will not be the owner of this land. The younger generation does not already want to risk or place its capital, its life, and its strength in the holding and education of this land. The situation has arisen that some gardening cooperatives do not have 20%, while some 30% of the land is practically uncultivated. A gardening cooperative must pay land tax to the state, but a very big question arises as to how to keep this land within its gardening cooperative. No one can buy, no one can sell this land within its borders and also in other cooperatives and, say, the Estonian citizen will also have major problems with how to develop infrastructure, how to keep his or her gardening. In practical terms, these gardening cooperatives are not partners for municipalities or the state either, because they are only "managers" present and no more. If you see that these non-owners, administrators, are still people who have lived in our region in generations, paid taxes in generations, there have been no claims for them in generations, they are decent residents of our country, then you could really meet them and not only those, but also Estonian citizens and our country, otherwise the land will be empty and what we will do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U136	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the amendments to draft 108. The first amendment has been tabled by Mr Allik and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U137	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Amendment 1 has been asked to vote. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by Mr Allik. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu, 48 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U139	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U140	Thank you. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on the second amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 36 members of the Riigikogu, against 47, with one abstention. The amendment was not supported. With this we have examined the draft amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. Reading has been completed and the second item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U141	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Kalev Lillo, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U142	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of what has happened between the first and second readings with the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act. For the first time, it was in the House at first reading on 23 November last year. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 December and no amendments were received by that time from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. However, a joint meeting between the Economic Commission and the National Defence Committee had taken place before the first reading, where the National Defence Committee asked a number of questions. The Committee on Economic Affairs is very grateful that such a thing has come true and that these questions have arisen, because by the end of the day it has helped to make the draft much better. These issues were discussed in cooperation with the people of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence in the working group on 29 December and nine amendments were formulated for the Economic Commission. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed these proposals at its meeting on 10 January this year, where representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance participated, in addition to the members of the committee, and where all these amendments were approved in a consensual manner, be they stated. So I'm going to go over those changes. First amendment: amend the wording of § 1 (7) of the draft. All this paragraph was amended in connection with the addition of an additional point that changed both the title of the paragraph and the wording of that paragraph. The second amendment is similar to the sixth and eighth amendments, with the wording...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U143	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I ask you, if you have any conversations between yourselves, to go out of this hall, because it interferes with those colleagues who listen to the waitress. I apologize again to the waitress! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U144	...in which the word'suit' was exchanged for 'thing'. The third amendment is to amend the wording of subsection 1033 (1) (4) of the Public Procurement Act contained in subsection 1 (12) of the draft. The wording is set out both in the new text and in the explanatory memorandum. If it was said earlier that the contract would be concluded because of intelligence, then the new wording is that it is linked to intelligence activities. So that's the wording of the amendment. The content of the fourth amendment was that if, in the previous wording, the State and the public authority were able to award contracts with other countries, then the public authority was now excluded, i.e. under this law the state alone, as a contracting authority, can conclude contracts with another country. According to the fifth amendment, the words'research, testing, learning' are deleted as they are not included in the list of directives to be transposed. The sixth amendment was where the word 'equipment' was replaced by 'thing'. The seventh amendment clarifies the definition. The old draft had the term 'crisis', the new wording also takes into account the content of the European Union's corresponding concept, and the more precise expression is 'in an emergency, in an emergency or in a state of war or in a similar situation in another European Union Member State or in a third country'. The eighth amendment is again the replacement of the word 'equipment' with 'thing'. The ninth amendment is analogous to the seventh amendment, which clarifies the wording of the crisis situation. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, a 10th amendment was also tabled. Since the initial draft stated 1 January 2012 as the deadline for the entry into force of this law amending the Public Procurement Act, but it has now passed, the Committee on Economic Affairs proposed to delete the section of the draft which provided for it. I would also stress that there were eight members of the Commission in favour of all these amendments, and there were no votes against or abstentions. Among other things, procedural decisions were made: to send draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 18 January. a; propose to the plenary assembly to stop the second reading of 113 SEs after voting on amendments; if 113 SEs second reading is closed, the third reading of the draft will be carried out on 25 January 2012 and the draft adopted as a law. All these decisions were also taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? It is not recommended to open negotiations, so we will begin the revision of draft 113 SE amendments. Ten amendments have been received, all in favour of the commission and the position to be taken fully into account: the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth amendments. We have examined the amendments and the position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the third item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U146	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws. Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws at two sessions on 9 and 16 January. In addition to the members of the committee, Seili Suder, Head of the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Maria Pihl, Head of the same department, and Rene Lauk, Legal Adviser to the Ministry participated in the discussion. One amendment had been tabled by the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Commission had received an opinion on the draft by the Estonian Employers' Confederation. In their letter, they pointed out that the Central Union supports, for the purpose of transposing the Directive, the solution whereby the right to unpaid parental leave provided for in § 64 of the Employment Contracts Act is granted separately by both father and mother. However, employers stressed that this right should be limited in time to the age of three. If the father had this right until the child reached the age of 14, as provided for in the draft, the organisation of work in companies would become excessively costly for employers if this right was used actively. The Commission did not consider it possible to support the proposal of the Estonian Employers' Confederation. The members of the Commission consensually considered that no one should be discriminated against on the basis of his or her gender, and stressed that the use of parental leave was an opportunity rather than an obligation. It was also pointed out that our fathers are not very eager to take advantage of this opportunity. During the discussion on sending the draft to first reading at the committee on 22 November 2011, questions were raised regarding the definition of the temporary agency and the fine, which is why the committee asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for a legal opinion. The opinion found that the provisions of the draft do not conflict with the Council Directive, but also made some suggestions on how these provisions could be better clarified in the future. However, the Commission did not consider it possible to propose any further amendments without negotiating with the social partners. As you can see from the draft on your tables, two amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment is from the lead committee and is a linguistic clarification. The Social Democratic Party Group tabled an amendment to delete § 1 (4) of the draft. That point lays down the principle that the restriction on the successive conclusion and renewal of fixed-term contracts shall be considered separately for each user undertaking. The initiator of the draft act disagreed with the proposals made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party for the following reasons: Firstly, temporary agency employment is an employment relationship where the employer temporarily sends the employee to work with a third party (user undertaking). This is a situation where the employee has a contract of employment with the employer, but physically carries out his duties with the user undertaking. According to § 9 (1) of the Employment Contracts Act, a fixed-term contract can only be concluded if justified by the compelling reasons of the temporary nature of the work, including temporary increases in the volume of work or seasonal work, such as work on a particular project. The draft law introduces a provision under which the conclusion of a fixed-term contract is also justified by the temporary nature of the work of the user undertaking. A fixed-term contract can therefore be concluded in a temporary employment relationship if the work is temporary with the employer or user undertaking. Since temporary agency relationships are not only a third party but also an employer and employee, the specific nature of this relationship makes it natural that the restriction on the successive conclusion and renewal of employment contracts is assessed by a user undertaking which temporarily needs additional labour. If the basis for the conclusion of fixed-term contracts is due to the temporary nature of the work of the user undertaking, it is also reasonable to refer to contracts concluded with the user undertaking for the purposes of the extension and the restriction on successive contracts. Secondly, it is the user undertaking that usually lacks temporary jobs and generally requires temporary employment. Consequently, temporary agency contracts cannot be concluded under the law in most cases, despite the temporary nature of the work being carried out. For example, in a situation where an undertaking employs an employee to carry out a short-term project, it has the right to enter into a fixed-term employment relationship with the employee. If the same company employs a temporary agency worker, the law in force allows the temporary agency worker to enter into an employment contract for an indefinite period. Workers are protected by the fact that the employer must have a valid reason for concluding a fixed-term employment contract. Such a procedure exists in the current law and is not amended by the bill. It cannot be assumed that temporary agency work is a work that workers do when forced to do. In some cases, it is possible for a member of staff, through a temporary agency, to get a job and protect their rights even better than they did when they were looking for short-term occasional work. Temporary agency work is a form of employment that is widely used and accepted in other countries. The contribution of temporary agency workers to employment should not be underestimated. On the basis of the above, the commission decided not to accept the amendment. The amendment was supported by five members and was opposed by six members of the Commission. The committee took the following procedural decisions: to propose to the plenary assembly that the second reading be stopped (six members of the committee, no respondents or abstentions were in favour) and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. On 25 January 2004 (this decision was supported by 11 members of the Commission, no votes against or abstentions). Thank you for your attention. I ask the Commission to support its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U148	Thank you, good waitress! You have at least one question. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U149	The initiator's position was, of course, staggering in terms of unprofessionalism. Article 10 of the Employment Contract Act tells us what today's wording is about, doesn't it? It is said that if a fixed-term contract is concluded several times with an employee, the law states that it is an open-ended contract. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U150	I was waiting for a question. Or was that a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U151	That was the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U152	If that's a question, the answer is yes. If the employer has entered into two fixed-term contracts with the employee and concludes a third, the third becomes an open-ended contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U153	Eiki Nestor, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U154	Thank you! With this addition, all temporary agency workers' contracts become fixed-term because they receive a new deadline for each new user undertaking. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U155	Good questioner! The purpose of the rental work is that the user undertaking is able to find a member of temporary staff to carry out some kind of work. If a user undertaking has concluded two fixed-term contracts and wants to conclude a third contract, it will automatically become permanent, as in the case of normal contracts of employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U156	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Good colleagues, is there a wish to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu to speak to Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U157	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You can support our change calmly because something is totally messed up. There are certainly occupations where it makes sense for a person to work in a temporary agency. If you are an entrepreneur and you need to repair your office, for example, one way is to hire a company. However, if you do not have such a large amount of work to do, you would need a workman who, for example, does the painting work for a short time. The name of this company is a user company and the place where it can borrow this workman is a company that employs temporary agency workers. If I'm a painter and I'm going to work for a temporary agency, they're gonna hire me as a painter, for example, and if you need a man like that somewhere, I'm gonna go and paint there. But my contract is with a rental company, and the user company and the rental company agree to come from you and paint. What's the matter? The Employment Contract Act logically assumes that employment contracts are concluded for an indefinite period and provides exceptions when fixed-term contracts may also be concluded. And according to § 10, the fact is that when someone is tapped or made unawares, the Lord, by means of a number of fixed-term contracts, is said to be taken as a time-limited trailer and then taken as a time-limited trailer again, from the beginning it is an open-ended contract. With this change, the rental company's right to make fixed-term employment contracts with a person on a continuous basis depends on where he or she goes to paint. This is clearly unfair to a person because his or her job is actually a rental company and not the place where he or she lands, it is a user company. So you can calmly support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U158	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 129 amendments to the draft. The first amendment is from the lead committee. The second amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U159	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U160	Thank you. Let's do it. We will begin the preparation of the vote on Amendment 2. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U161	By 24 members of the Riigikogu, against 50, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the fourth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U162	Dear colleagues, let us move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending the Law on alcohol. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U163	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U164	We welcome the President of the Riigikogu, I welcome you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U165	Also, hello to the vice-chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U167	And the other vice president.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U168	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U169	I will present you with a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on alcohol. This law needs to be supplemented as the electronic system of the delivery note, which was launched in 2010, has been further developed. An update is to inform the tax authorities if excise goods are refused or there have been cases of excise goods being transported between Member States, such as truck exchange, accident, etc. There are other changes to the draft. The rate of excise duty on non-commercial aviation petrol shall be increased from 1 July of this year in accordance with the requirements of the Energy Taxation Directive to the level of excise duty on lead petrol. Commercial aviation fuel remains exempt from excise duty. The exemption from excise duty on oil shale oil used as heating fuel in the household shall be abolished. Oil shale oil used for district heating is subject to excise duty. The share of oil from oil shale in fuels used for heat production is virtually non-existent. In 2010, a total of 3000 tonnes of oil shale oil was used to produce heat. In comparison, oil shale was used for the same heat production of 570000 tonnes. From 1 July of this year, fuel additives which improve the characteristics and use of fuel shall be considered as excise goods and shall be subject to tax. Under the current law, these additives are subject to excise duty only if they are included in the composition of the fuel by the manufacturer. From now on, it will be permitted to sell cigarettes with a tax mark affixed to a group pack or block in the airport's customs control zone. Currently, cigarettes bearing a tax mark affixed to a group pack are allowed to be sold for aircraft and vessels travelling between Member States. So these are the changes. The date of entry into force of the Act is planned for s. a March 1st. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U170	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I thank the Minister. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government at its meeting on 9 January. The meeting was also attended by the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Marek Uusküla, and Heidi Vessel, the chief specialist. The Minister presented the purpose and content of the draft to the Commission and answered the questions raised by its members. So it was a question of what would happen, then, with regard to the increase in excise duty on non-commercial aviation gasoline. There was talk about amateur pilots and how this affects this area of activity. The representative of the Ministry explained that the hotspots have been discussed with the professional associations. Really, for them, it means that fuel will be priced over and over again. There was also a question of what oil shale oil used in households represents in terms of its physical characteristics. This issue was also explained by a representative of the Ministry and the members of the Commission were informed that consumption of oil shale oil for heating in households was marginal. There was also the problem of tobacco producers. Their proposal is that when a country changes excise duties on tobacco, the tax mark should also change, and information changes they want to receive six months in advance. The Ministry of Finance took the view that the country would have to ensure flexibility if the country had decided to change tobacco excise duties. However, the Commission's position was that we are still discussing this issue with representatives of the tobacco industry association. It will probably happen, as we have agreed, between the first reading and the second reading. We'll probably meet them separately. A question was asked about what alcohol is without a host. The specialists in the Department's excise policy department explained that this is a product that cannot be identified as the owner, no one has bothered to pick up the goods. It was also a question of an amendment to the provision which, under certain conditions and from a certain amount of production, exempts the tax authorities from the requirement to lodge a security. It was asked whether this applies only to lean alcohol, where these rates come from and whether such a condition could not apply to strong alcohol. The representative of the Ministry explained in more detail what tax risks are, and it can be summarised as being lower tax risks in the case of lean alcohol with lower rates of excise duty. In the case of strong alcohol, the rates of excise duty are higher, the amounts of tax are higher and, unfortunately, such a condition cannot be applied there. There was also a question of oil shale oil used in households. The question was whether this point of amendment was coordinated and whether the entire draft had been agreed with other ministries. The answer was that this thing has been normal. One Member of the Commission also requested statistics on final consumption, i.e. on fuels used in households. These statistics have been received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This week, the Commission received a further letter from the Tobacco Producers Association. That's the problem I've been talking about. The Commission decided to make a proposal to put the draft on the agenda today, 18 January. It was a consensual decision. The second proposal was to conclude the first reading, which was decided by consensus. Thirdly, the Commission proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 1 February. It was also a consensual decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U172	Thank you! You have at least one question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U173	Thank you. The rapporteur from the Commission. I have a question about the inclusion of excise duty on oil shale fuel oil used as domestic heating fuel. What is the current price of oil shale fuel oil, and what will it be after the introduction of excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U174	Thank you for that question. The price of shale oil excluding VAT was 395.5 euros per tonne in the first quarter of 2011. If an additional EUR 15 excise duty per tonne were added, this would increase the price to EUR 416,6 per tonne.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U175	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Sõerd, I would like to ask how the proposals of various interests come into the law to widen the horizon. Let's say, to make an exception, in order to obtain benefits, some kind of goods, in this case the bill for the sale of tobacco blocks, will introduce some kind of extension, if I am not mistaken, may in the future be sold at the airport within the customs zone, before being able to sell only on board aircraft. Interests may be mixed in such a process, one being the interest of the producer and the seller, and the other is the interest of the consumer. Is it a consumer or producer proposal to make such a change so that these preferential blocks can be accessed more widely? How do these stakeholders represent themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U177	Thank you. How exactly was this proposal, I do not know, must be specified by the Ministry of Finance, because this proposal came through the government. I think it is not a question of lobbying, but rather we are still moving in a normal direction. As you know, it is an international practice to allow tobacco products to be sold in blocks in the customs zone. I do not see a very big problem here and do not think that this is excessive lobby or pressure. This was a government proposal, and in the Commission, we also had no one who would have raised this problem in such a key.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U178	Good waitress, thank you too! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 150 amendments on 1 February 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U179	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U180	Honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft amendment to the VAT Act amends the requirements on invoices, clarifies the VAT treatment of the service for long-term hire of the means of transport, introduces a special reverse charge regime for gold and makes the conditions for exemption more favourable if the importer of the goods is represented by a customs agency. With effect from 1 January 2013, for certain transactions, such as travel services, second-hand goods or reverse charge, the billing procedure will be amended. The reference to the VAT Act or the provision of the VAT Directive is replaced by a word reference, such as'reverse taxation' or'revenue tax arrangements' for travel agencies. The deadline for issuing an invoice for cross-border transactions will be extended. As a general rule, an invoice must be issued within seven calendar days, but in the case of cross-border transactions, the invoice must be issued no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the goods were dispatched or the service was provided. From 1 January 2013, the means of transport shall be amended for long-term hire of a non-taxable person on the taxation of services. In the future, the service is taxed at the customer's place of residence or residence, so far the service was taxed at the supplier's place of residence. An exception is the provision of rental services for recreational and pleasure craft, which are subject to taxation in the country in which the service provider is established, if the ship is actually placed at the disposal of the lessee from that country. From 1 March 2012, as an anti-tax fraud measure, a special reverse charge regime will be introduced for the turnover of gold and investment gold. Tax fraud in the metal and fuel sectors is difficult and fraudsters have moved to the gold market. In the case of VAT transactions between taxable persons, the possibility to deduct VAT, i.e. to recover it from the State, is lost in the application of VAT. The obligation to pay VAT arises only in the last link in the supply chain, i.e. the sale to the final consumer. The implementation of reverse charge is estimated by the tax authorities to significantly reduce the volume of gold fraud. From 1 March 2002, the conditions for exemption from import duties will also be amended in order to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators and the tax authorities. Exemption shall also be granted where imports of goods are declared by the customs authorities as representatives of a foreign importer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U181	Minister, thank you, too. There are no questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Finance Committee, Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Finance Committee discussed a draft law amending the VAT Act in 146 s. a on January 9th. As the initiator's representative, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The aim of the draft is to harmonise the requirements for invoices and the definition of the place where the service will be generated with the new requirements in force in the European Union since 2013. In order to avoid tax fraud, the aim is to introduce a special reverse charge regime for the turnover of gold and to make the conditions for exempting imports of goods from the arrangements for the release for free circulation of non-Community goods more favourable. The draft also specifies the expression 'periodic edition'. Since the Minister for Finance has already given a substantive overview, perhaps the questions and issues discussed in the Commission. The question was whether the introduction of a special scheme for the reverse charge of forest-based products had also been considered. The Minister replied that this was not a plan; it was rather complicated given the specifics of the field. Once upon a time, there has been a special regime for the sale of forests. The current Act provides for a special scheme for the VAT treatment of immovable property and metal waste. The process of detecting and reducing VAT fraud was also addressed. Due to the introduction of the reverse charge regulation on metal waste and the introduction of additional requirements for fuel operators, fraud has moved to the gold market. Hence, the reverse charge of the turnover of gold. The repayment of overpaid VAT on the reverse charge of gold and investment gold is expected by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to decrease by EUR 6.8 million per year. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 18 January. a, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 6 p.m. on 1 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U183	Thank you! You have at least one question. Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U184	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the bill states, and the minister also mentioned, that fraudsters have appeared on the gold market. Did the Commission also mention the extent to which, even in financial terms, this has been established?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U185	Thank you. Although the people of the Tax and Customs Board did not attend the meeting of the Commission, it was discussed. Not of any number of companies or of any natural or legal person, but of any monetary value. This is estimated at 6.8 million this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U186	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 146 amendments at 6 p.m. on 1 February 2012. The first reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U187	We will move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 152 amending the Law on Investment Funds, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will present to you a draft amending a number of laws in the financial sector. The draft can be divided into three major parts. Firstly, investment fund managers are allowed to expand their activities. As a result of the changes, management companies will be able to manage UCITS established in other Member States. (Pension funds are not treated as UCITS) According to the current law, Estonian management company can only manage UCITS established in Estonia. From now on, the Estonian management company can manage a UCITS, for example, established in Finland and vice versa. It is also possible to combine the assets of a UCITS of one Member State with the assets of a UCITS of another Member State, thereby creating synergies and economies of scale, and the cost of managing the fund may be reduced for investors. Management companies can set up new fund structures. As a result of the changes, most of the assets of one UCITS can be invested in another investment fund (so far there is a restriction). This is called a umbrella fund, which consolidates the assets of other UCITS and invests them back in a pool. Such a fund structure allows for a reduction in the cost of managing the fund for investors. In order to mitigate the risks associated with the expansion of activities, the draft introduces additional requirements for the organisational structure of the management company and for the investor's benefit. The management company must improve its internal control system and inform the shareholders of potential conflicts of interest in asset management. Management companies operating in Estonia follow these requirements and the additional requirements do not entail any significant changes. Secondly, the draft introduces improvements to the pension system. Employers can set up pension funds themselves. The reason for the admission of such pension funds stems from the European Union Directive, which was adopted as early as 2003. When Estonia joined the European Union, Estonia took the view that Estonia's three-pillar pension system is in line with the objectives and principles of the directive and that no further changes to the system are necessary. However, according to the European Commission, this Directive has not been fully transposed in Estonia. There will be no major practical changes and no separate pension pillar will be created for the pension funds of the employer. The proposed changes take into account the structure of the existing pension system and the employer's pension fund becomes the third pillar. Employers' pension funds are treated as voluntary pension funds. Employers' pension funds are contractual investment funds; they can only be managed by an authorised management company, not by the employer itself. The employer plays a role in shaping the basic documentation of the pension fund, i.e. the conditions, the investment will be made by an independent management company and not by the employer. The employer's pension fund assets are separated from the employer's own assets and the employer's potential bankruptcies have no impact on the pension fund. Several employers may, if they so wish, form a joint pension fund. The tax rules of the employer's pension funds will be the same as those of ordinary volunteers in the third pillar pension funds. In the older Member States of the European Union, occupational pension schemes are already popular historically, but I would not predict their success in Estonia. In Estonia, employers can contribute to voluntary pension funds for their employees and do not necessarily have to create their own pension system. As a third significant change, the draft clarifies the cooperation of the Financial Supervision Authority with the supervisory authorities of other Member States and with the supervisory authorities of the European Union. As of 1 January 2011, there is a new financial supervision regime in the European Union. As a result, three European financial supervisory authorities have been set up: the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. In addition, a European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) was set up with the European Central Bank to identify risks to financial stability at large. The draft provides for the responsibilities of the Financial Supervision Authority as to the information to be shared with these authorities. In practice, this cooperation already works and representatives of the Financial Supervision Authority participate in the work of the supervisory authorities of the European Union. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U189	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Inara Luigas, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U190	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws was on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a on January 9th. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, and Mr Fedotov, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, also answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. The main objectives of the proposal are to lay the foundations for cross-border management of investment funds that meet uniform EU standards, i.e. UCITS. The aim is to enable the cross-border merger of UCITS and the creation of new types of fund structures, to lay the foundations for setting up the employer's pension funds and to clarify the rules on the organisation of cooperation between the Financial Supervision Authority, the European Financial Supervisory Authorities and the financial supervisory authorities of other Member States. The following issues were addressed during the debate in the Commission. Firstly, what place could an employer's pension fund in our country have in the voluntary pension fund system? The replies revealed that the employer's pension funds are similar to other third pillar funds. The employer will have the opportunity to speak in the design of the fund. The European Commission did not consider Estonia's current regulation, where the employer, like the contractor, can only make contributions to existing funds sufficient. There was a question of what restrictions are there to avoid the use of employers' pension funds to commit tax fraud, such as the tax-free payment of wages. It was explained that the conditions of these funds are similar to those of the other third pillar funds and are in line with the current investment restrictions, i.e. EUR 6000 or 15% of the person's annual salary. It was also asked whether the insured person could change the fund when the employer changed. It was explained that there was no limit to the exchange of units from one fund to another. They asked what the fund would do in the event of the employer's bankruptcy. It was clarified that the draft law and the laws in force constituted a separate legal entity and that the fund could continue its activities. In the case of a single employer's fund, the amount of the fund in the form of contributions does not increase and the cessation of activities cannot have any influence on the management company's activities. Other issues such as the employer's ability to influence the management company's investment decisions, the takeover of one fund by another fund and the possibility of being insured in several funds at once were also discussed. The popularity of the employer's pension funds in Estonia was also asked. It was considered that employers are currently able to contribute to existing third pillar pension funds. Given the current interest, the employer's pension funds are not expected to become particularly popular. The possibility for the employer to use the fund's assets for the temporary capitalisation of the company and the resulting risks was discussed. The explanation leads to the conclusion that these activities are not permissible because the fund's assets are not assets held by the enterprise and there are general restrictions on investment in the enterprise. All current control mechanisms and other control functions of the Financial Supervision Authority are also in place. Issues such as the introduction of an investment obligation in Estonia, the pooling of funds and the possibilities of setting up operational funds were also discussed. The Commission took the following decisions: to send the draft to first reading. a on 18 January, propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 1 February at 6 p.m. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-18_U191	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 152 amendments at 6 p.m. on 1 February 2012. The first reading is closed and the seventh item on the agenda is closed. Good fellows, thank you. There are no other items on the agenda at today's session. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 3:32 p.m.
