ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the sixth Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U2	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of eight members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. The subject of the inquiry is the new system of compensation for the use of specially labelled fuel. Why is it going to be so long? The initial promises were that the new system would be proposed as early as 2011. We want to know how far this has come and what the plans are. Doesn't this stretch mean that the use of specially labelled fuel in the agricultural sector is going to sneak out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U3	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The situation in the self-government landscape is pretty bad. Municipalities are impoverished, their cooperation in local governments is a fragile ice that is harder to survive year by year. This year two important letters have been handed over to the Riigikogu and political parties, one from the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities, the other from the Minister of Regional Affairs. Clearly, both local government policy in general and both of the above-mentioned letters require much more attention from the Riigikogu. Systematic and coordinated feedback is needed to the Minister of Regional Affairs, national self-government associations and the public. This requires a systematic debate in the Riigikogu on municipal policy. If the differences between the parties represented in the Riigikogu are insurmountable, it is necessary to fix the differences and communicate them to the parties involved and to the public. It is not appropriate to do so in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, as an intensive debate on self-government policy would cover too much of the work of the Constitutional Committee and would start to prevent the attention of others and the problems that need to be addressed. The most suitable solution is to set up a committee of problems in the Riigikogu. I have the honour of handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 24 October 2004, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. The draft law amending the State Budget Act 2012 was initiated on 22 October 2012 and has appointed it as the commission of directors of the Finance Commission. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 80 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U6	We will begin the discussion of the items on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. I'm sorry! The script was misspelled, but the waitress is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. A little excitement in the hall is only to be welcomed. Please, Minister, and I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U7	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me a chance. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! When we draw up the state budget, we are once again in a situation where the recovery of the global economy has been called into question. Uncertainty remains both within the euro area and globally. Our potential growth is being held back by some of the debt problems of the euro area countries, which we have actively contributed over the last two years to preventing the spread of. Compared to a year ago, we have established a permanent financial stabilisation mechanism for the ESM and, as an important link in securing the financial health of the euro area, there is a step-by-step increase in single banking supervision. Thus, reforms that significantly strengthen the common market are under way in the euro area, but the environment will be more unpredictable than usual due to a loss of confidence in the next year. The Estonian economy, however, is somewhat defiant and has achieved stable growth. The confidence of Estonian consumers and the security of consumption remain evenly high. The growth prospects in our neighbouring countries are above average. Therefore, in preparing the next year's budget, the government took into account the baseline scenario for the economic forecast, which estimates the growth rate for 2013 at 3% already in spring. Thus, Estonia will again be the fastest-growing economy in the euro area in 2013. From the second half of next year, economic growth will be again driven by exports, which in turn will support the local labour market, consumption capacity and investment security. The most important issue for each budget is whether financing people and the welfare of the state takes real opportunities into account. There is no such choice that you can spend more than you earn on a permanent basis. Therefore, in order to maintain the credibility of economic policies, the government will respect the objectives set out in the budgetary strategy, using the coming years to ensure sustainable development and growth. The cost of the budget corresponds to the contribution of taxpayers and we do not live beyond our means. However, the general government balance is still in deficit (0.7% of GDP) next year, but in the European context it will be a very good result. The central government, in particular the deficit in pension insurance, will continue to be the main cause of the deficit. The structural balance targeted by the European Commission will remain in a tiny surplus next year. The surplus shows that there are no major fiscal problems with sustainability and the nominal deficit in the coming years is due to the economic cycle and temporary factors. I stress that budgetary balance is not an abstract objective. The experience of other countries proves that it is an important tool for stabilising the economy and supporting growth. In addition, it testifies to the adequacy of spending, the necessity of which tends to be quickly forgotten. With the balance of the budget, we also avoid becoming dependent on credit, from which it is difficult and painful for society. Estonia's debt ratio will remain the lowest in the European Union next year, 12% of GDP, and will increase only due to EFSF guarantees. The average debt burden of euro area countries is 83% of GDP. According to the public finance forecast, the state does not have to turn to the bond market; the financing needs are covered by the liquidity reserve. The principle also applies that, in the context of faster-than-expected economic growth, the country will avoid a positive additional budget and, if possible, reduce the deficit more quickly. There is no intention to change the country's tax policy, and the aim will continue to be to reduce labour taxes. The European Commission, the OECD and other experts support our view that taxes are the biggest obstacles to economic development by taxes on capital and labour. The unemployment insurance contribution will fall next year, resulting in more money being left to both the employee and the employer. As a result of earlier decisions, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco will rise next year, the latter of which we propose to divide the 10% increase into two years. The overall tax burden will fall to 32,6% in 2013, which is the lowest level for five years. Revenues from the state budget increase by 163.1 million euros, or 2.2% to 7.5 billion euros. Overall income growth is not high, but internal changes are important. In particular, the share of revenue moves towards tax revenues and the state's dependence on subsidies decreases. External support mainly decreases due to the change in the financial perspective of the European Union. In 2013, expenditure will increase by 1,1% to EUR 7,7 billion. When planning costs, we no longer need to cut directly, but the need to curb additional desires will never disappear. I can confirm that the country's spending for next year is planned responsibly and with long-term implications. At the same time, we will be able to improve the social security of people next year. There will be needs-based child benefits, an increase in the pay fund for government areas, an increase in pensions, as well as unemployment benefits. In general, the breakdown of costs is similar to that of previous years. Compared to other countries in the European Union, we continue to contribute relatively more to education, culture, national defence and internal security. The country will spend more than 18 million more on education reforms next year. In doing so, the government will ensure needs-based learning grants, reform vocational training programmes and the school network for general education. The cultural budget provides funding for the construction of the Estonian National Museum and the defence budget will be 2% of GDP next year. Higher expenditure increases are linked to improvements in social protection: public pension insurance costs increase by EUR 93.3 million, health insurance costs by the Health Insurance Fund by EUR 55 million and compulsory funded pension payments by the State by EUR 9 million. On average, the state pays 1677 euros per person for various social benefits. The volume of government investment will fall next year. While the planned sharp increase in investment in this year's budget was mainly due to the revenue from the sales of emission quotas, for the same reason, the investment volume will fall by 10.6% or EUR 921.7 million in the following year. However, Estonia stands out in the context of Europe at a very high level of public investment, which has persisted in the years of crisis. Less than half of the investments (48%) will be made in the coming year from external grants. The volume of investments in state budget and state real estate AS grows by 44 million euros and represents more than a quarter of the volume of government investment. Larger sites relate to road maintenance, water and waste management, and hospital and welfare network infrastructure, with EUR 195.6, EUR 161.9 and EUR 46 million respectively. The State's operating costs will increase next year. In addition to the increase in wage funds in government areas, at least 4,4% of the growth is linked to the special defence equipment, road maintenance, state real estate lease payments and educational reform. There is still a potential source of wage growth to increase efficiency within sectors and therefore, the increase in average wages will certainly be higher than the 4.4% increase in the payroll fund. The reduction in unemployment insurance contributions also raises net wages. We must forget the two-digit wage increases in the public sector, even though we saw them during the booming season. They did not take account of the reality of the situation and, to a large extent, these errors had to be corrected during the crisis. The wage increases offered are in line with the overall evolution of the labour market and are characteristic of balanced economic development. The moderate wage increase is certainly more pleasant than the fast one, which will inevitably be followed by cuts, i.e. wage freezes and dismissals. Nor must the public sector take up a pay race in front of the private sector. The planned growth of the 4.4% wage fund is below the projected average wage growth in the coming year, but it does not represent the total increase, as has been said, and exceeds the forecast inflation. Thus, the real purchasing capacity of people who receive public finances will also increase. In summary, with regard to next year's budget, this is the first one over several years, where we are simultaneously increasing the salaries of public employees and a number of social benefits, including pensions, child benefits and unemployment benefits. But we have not gone this way to simply plan more revenue. The changes have also been made possible by internal reorganisations in the areas of governance, both in the preparation of child benefit distribution and education reform. More money comes into the budget from more efficient work, not from dreaming or making demands. The main issue of fiscal policy remains a long view of real needs and opportunities. I would like to thank everyone involved in the preparation of this budget and I wish the Riigikogu the strength to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U8	Thank you very much. We go to questions and answers. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U9	Thank you. Dear Minister, In fact, it is sad that the children of the families living in the worst circumstances, i.e. children in families receiving income support, are still deprived of this 19-euro child benefit because it is included in the family's income when calculating income support. You have talked so much here about the need-based child support that has been your dream. This EUR 9 is available from 1 July only for the first and second children of the family. Why does the third, fourth, etc. lose it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U10	Thank you. When a family is whole, they don't lose. This is still family support. I think this is a very progressive effort. Over the long term, it is recognised that children are not equal in terms of cash needs and child benefits need to be targeted. It's an exceptionally good choice. Children's equality in material terms can be discussed in the case of services. It is true that equality should be sought, but not a cash transfer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U11	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The school family at Kohtla-Järve Tammik Upper Secondary School wants to know if the 2013 state budget plans to increase student catering allowance. Currently, the state allocates 78 euro cents per day to cater for basic school students, and this is not enough, especially to buy fruit, which is offered to students at least three times a week. Prices are rising, but the subsidy amount has been the same for several years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U13	Thank you. According to my information, I may, of course, be wrong in such details, that amount will not be increased. This has never occurred in any dispute. However, I do not think it makes sense to put school food in the forefront of educational problems. I am not saying that you are doing this, but this topic tends to be just too high on the political agenda. Sharing school food free of charge for all should not be a priority for education. It would be nice if we could apply the necessity here, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U14	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U15	Thank you. I will tell Heljo Pikhof that we will discuss needs-based child support in the Committee on Social Affairs on Thursday. Since the third child, the increase is intended for all children. But it's a matter of doctors' strike. The Health Insurance Fund had its first reading of the 2013 budget last Friday. The budget envisages a significantly higher wage increase for health workers than originally planned, on average 15% over two years. This creates pressure on the pay of health care workers paid from the state budget. Is there an idea and a source of cover to find additional funding for the state budget, so that health care workers who are also paid from the state budget should not be concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U16	Thank you. They shouldn't be worried. The government appreciates it, and I personally appreciate the work of the medical team. We know that rewarding it is one important thing. We have a plan to raise medical salaries in parallel, both those who are indirectly on the payroll of the health insurance fund and those who receive money from the state budget. In any case, a working medic deserves our thanks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U17	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U18	Thank you. Minister of Finance! It is not clear from the explanatory memorandum to the state budget how much dividends will be taken from specific companies next year. The explanatory memorandum only states that the company's profits for 2012 are projected to increase compared to 2011 and in this context the dividend income for 2013 will also increase by EUR 2,8 million. You can probably tell me, so please tell me which companies how much dividends will be taken next year!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U19	Thank you. I don't want to go into any more details than the explanatory memorandum says. In any event, dividend income is the estimated amount and covers different companies. Traditionally, the largest sources of dividends are Eesti Energia and the Port of Tallinn. It is not important for the exact amount of a particular enterprise, it is important that this forecast should eventually hold water. I am pleased to say to everyone who is concerned about the price of electricity that the free market, which allows the company to earn at market prices, also means that revenue is shared with society. In any case, electricity consumers receive relief from one form or another through the state budget. State-owned enterprises do not exist in this sense either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U20	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U21	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I think one of Estonia's most serious successes is that our defence costs represent 2% of GDP. As we know, budgeting is not an easy task; every minister fights for his own field. Can you tell me with certainty that we will continue to follow the principle that defence costs are 2% of GDP, and that the government was not now talking about changing it, and that will not be the case in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U22	Thank you. To be honest, this has not been the case. We have had to argue about this in the Riigikogu, but let this amount remain still. We try to develop well-being in other ways through a good job and a growing economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U23	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The government has said that next year the salary of educators will rise by 11%. Is this budget that we are currently dealing with going to be the 11% increase in teachers' pay for local governments, or do local governments have to pay extra money to achieve this 11%?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U25	Thank you. This budget, which is in front of you, is going to be all that money. This budget reflects all the amounts collected and distributed by the State. It is a completely new and nice budget in this sense. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U26	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! This draft budget is a nightmare for businesses and the business environment. The producers of construction materials are going to rise enormously in environmental charges. Over reason, nearly six times the navigation charges are rising, which are likely to soon deter all ships from our ports. But my question is: how could you put into the budget all these calculations if the draft laws that raise these fees have not even reached the first reading? How could you put them in the budget? What did you do that for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U28	Thank you. I've been asking, and I've been told it's correct. I'll be happy to give you a more precise answer later. I had the same question myself. A few things that affect the budget are, in a formal sense, lagging behind the budgetary procedure. I'll check those facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U29	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The government is increasingly moving towards a needs-based financing model. Why, then, is the increase in defence expenditure by EUR 20 million not in necessity, but merely arithmetical of 2% of GDP? Do you think that further allocation of such funds is justified at a time when there are major socio-economic problems in the country? A further EUR 20 million, even for teachers' salaries or for road construction, would be much more appropriate to the necessity principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U31	Thank you. Did I hear correctly that you were talking about the necessity of defence spending? Didn't my ear cheat? I think this debate might be appropriate within the Riigikogu, but I have just confirmed that the volume of defence spending in our government was not disputed. The need-based protection costs (there should be multiple quotes here, with the first to mark your quotation) usually in a war situation. But in a peaceful situation, just enough is spent to prevent war. If this fails, the need will become very measurable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U32	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This budget is characterised by moderate optimism, as you have even said. In a sense, it meets people's expectations for security and stability to increase. We know the surrounding economic environment and its variability. How much is this budget ready for the economic environment outside Estonia to become riskier?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U34	Thank you. This budget is ready for this kind of thing, let's say, world-class. There are few well-balanced budgets in the world, and there are few countries with significant reserves. We are able to react and our budget makers have also experienced how to react. I hate to think of scenarios like this, but this war has been fought and successfully overcome. Thanks to this, we are now enjoying several years of economic growth again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U35	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, The new building of the opera and ballet theatre has also been mentioned for several years in relation to the budget. At the moment, this is not in the draft budget. Can you tell me when this topic could be in the state budget again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U37	Thank you. I would argue that this has never been serious in the context of the budget. As someone asks about a building, it still happens, but in the context of the budget, buildings need to be built step by step and gradually, and there is no reason to build air pools. Currently, the largest cultural building is the Estonian National Museum. You can't have everything at once. That's how fiscal policy works.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U38	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Next year, our finances will also be affected by the ESM contributions if Estonia has to make two contributions, a total of 60 million euros. From what sources will these contributions be financed, either from reserves or through loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U40	Thank you. As I said in my report, the reserves. They are accounted for as an exchange of one financial asset against another financial asset. The participation in the ESM is what is obtained, and the change in reserves in the direction of decline is what is given.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U41	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U42	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I come back to Mr Ratas's question, to which you answered quite generally. On page 74 of the explanatory memorandum, it can be read that support for educational expenditure on municipal matters is increasing by 0.07% in the Equalisation Fund, which is expected to lead to an 11% wage increase. These figures are not quite comparable, of course, because, for example, in Jõgeva and Haapsalu, there is a state school, I know that, but there is not a very large amount of it either. I therefore ask: how much money does the government still give (in percent or absolute terms) to raise wages in municipal schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U43	Thank you. In absolute terms, it is just under EUR 20 million. I should be looking for the exact amount a little bit. But the source is first an increase of 7.5 million euros in subsidies from the state budget. If this sum looks small, it's worth multiplying by 15.6. In this case, you will understand that these are huge sums. The drop in the number of students gives an opportunity to release around EUR 4 million. Clearly, teachers do not teach in empty classes. This includes a reduction in the unemployment insurance rate (0.5 million euros). The part of the CVT grant is 3.8 million euros and the municipality's investment grant is 3.2 million euros. I don't think there's any more illusion in this room like money comes out of nowhere. It's still coming at the expense of something. If, in the European dimension, we contribute very much to the proportion of education, it is no longer a secret in this Chamber, too, that we place a great deal of money in concrete and that, if we are at the top in terms of educational costs, we are at the OECD average level in terms of teachers' pay. However, the priority (a disgusting word that is used too much) is that human resources are better valued within this high educational cost. So it's a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U44	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance! The application for support for the renovation of apartment buildings through KredEx has increased, but the money from the sale of quotas for this purpose has already been used up. The average estimated energy savings for renovation are known to be above 40%. Will next year the state budget, through KredEx, be allocated funds to renovate apartment buildings and, if so, how much money are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U46	Thank you. With these amounts, I would not be operating very boldly at the moment, they are certainly the most difficult to predict at the moment. The question is what will be next year's quota trade. In principle, we have decided that an important part of the money received will be channelled into energy-saving programmes such as insulation of apartment buildings. This is the idea of quota trade and we have also prioritised it in the country's economic policy. It provides both employment and cost savings for citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U47	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U48	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You and your party as a whole are very strong supporters of your rhetorical business environment, supporters of a stable tax situation and tax system. You said today that the overall tax burden will decrease a little, etc. But I would like to ask you, as a financialist, an assessment of the navigation and environmental charges that have already been mentioned here once. If environmental charges were really agreed for ten years, i.e. long in advance with businesses in principle, and if now an ad hoc move is made to get revenue into the budget, how do you justify such behaviour, or if you think it is right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U49	Thank you. I have always said that it is more necessary to tax the exhaustion of nature, the use of resources, pollution and consumption than to tax work and capital. It's the same thing I pointed out in my speech. There is, in fact, an international consensus here. A key issue for competitiveness is how to limit labour taxation and create more favourable conditions for capital. But cheap natural resources are certainly not an innovative idea or Estonian Nokia. I have not been the developer of these tax rates, but I believe in experts who say that they are not too high and do not go too far. I agree that the use of resources must be taxed more properly than has been the case so far. This will not only shift the economy towards sustainability, but towards innovation more broadly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U50	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I think I have a traditional question. I looked at the draft budget and did not find, like last year, a national programme on the development plan for Ida-Virumaa, which is about to end and the results of which should be evaluated. There's almost nothing in place. Is it again, like in previous years, shared areas? Then who is responsible for this program?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U52	Thank you. I think the best answer to this question is the Minister for Regional Affairs. I really cannot follow the details of how the various support programmes have worked. I trust a colleague here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U53	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U54	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Increases in tax revenues are discussed in the budget readings every year. The construction sector has improved quite a bit in recent years due to CO2 quotas. However, news came today from the Tax and Customs Board that last week the accounts of 203 employees were taken from the controllers and it was discovered in 46 cases (i.e. one fifth of the employees checked) that the employee has not declared any income. Not to mention that there are certainly those whose wages are understatement. If one of the 13 construction sites has supposedly been working for the first 9 days, is that normal? Does the Minister of Finance intend to do something here to change it and increase tax revenues by losing envelope wages? This is certainly not just a matter for the construction sector. There's a place where you can increase tax revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U55	Thank you. The fact that you can read such data here shows that the Minister of Finance agrees with you and has done something about it. The attitude towards tax fraud has been sharply tightened and our cooperation with the tax administration has increased. I've also been to the government several times to present these plans. We are discussing the idea that labour must be registered from day one. The question now is how to make sure that today's IT tools cannot forge registration on the first day. I'm sure you've heard some colorful stories about the discovery of a lot of construction men walking on the street with bells and limey clothes. It's all the result that we've dramatically tightened control right on the construction site. The result is also a sharp increase in wages in construction, but not yet at a level that corresponds to the actual situation on the labour market. If you can, support the initiatives that we come here with. But there's a lot of technical problems here. In any case, the trapping of fraudsters is the most appropriate source of money for the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U56	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I'm looking at page 174 of the budget explanatory memorandum, which reflects the field of the Ministry of the Interior. Here is the table 'Employment costs by institution'. The figures show that the Ministry of the Interior's budget will increase by 5.92%, while the Police and Border Guard Board will decrease by 1.27% and the Rescue Board's 2.29%. Can you tell me what it's supposed to show me, which way the Ministry of the Interior and the field of internal security are going anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U58	Thank you. If you only look at the overall budget volume, you will certainly not be able to know any salary trends. I can guarantee that in internal security, wages will increase by at least 4.4%, actually more, net wages by a little more. I would argue that the first reason for the fall in funding is the reduced external subsidies, i.e. the forthcoming euro projects. This is why several ministries appear to have reduced funding. In fact, certain things have simply been completed and this cannot be left unrecorded in the budget. The investment has been made, the situation has been corrected, but people still get their raise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U59	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I risk you suggesting that I ask the Minister of Social Affairs, but I'm still asking. I will continue with the questions of Heljo Pikhof and Kalev Kallo. We all know that child benefit is included in the income and that this means that people will be deprived of income support. But the government coalition has promised, and the bill states that we will raise the third child's allowance by EUR 21. A funny situation arises: EUR 21, by which the allowance increases, is not included in the income, but the "ex-grant" amount, i.e. EUR 57, is taken into account. As Minister of Finance, how do you assess this logic? On the other hand, it seems to be a little over the top, because part of the same support is income, but the other part is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U61	Thank you. The positive side of the reform of child benefits is that income is taken into account at all. The cash needs of children are still very different. This has also been taken into account in the reform process. Under the conditions of limited resources, choices must be made. These choices can continue to be made as we become wealthier. My personal preference for supporting children has never been to always make cash transfers. Cash transfers should, in my opinion, be made only in the most critical situations and in the most difficult periods of life, for example when there are children at home or when there is poverty. This reform is even relatively generous, and the children of the members of the Riigikogu have also been preserved with subsidies that some have fought hard to raise in the media. Rather, however, we should think in the direction that maybe we can work on an agreement. Society cannot act as a cash machine to withdraw money from a machine gun, be handed over to a treasurer, and then be taken out of a machine gun again. In the meantime, there could still be some kind of change, apart from people getting the job of raising money and the heat being released. In any case, the necessity could be strengthened here in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U62	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The forest is not only our national wealth, but also our national pride. Under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, the state budget has foreseen that in 2011 ownership income and income tax of EUR 26 million had to be withdrawn from RMK, EUR 45.8 million in 2012 and EUR 17.9 million initially planned in the 2013 budget. The total amount is EUR 89,7 million. So just so you don't think this number is very small, I multiplied it. That's about 1.4 billion kroons. By doing so, the government has essentially brought the current account of the state company to nothing. At the same time, in the draft state budget, you foresee that you will grant RMK EUR 20 million in short-term loans at market interest rates for one year, so that the company's economic activity does not stop. Do you consider such a situation to be a prudent government government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U64	Thank you. The answer is yes. Your leader and teacher Villu Reiljan once said that the Estonian people have still benefited from the forest. He also did what he did when he founded RMK. He created it in the strange form of 'no meat or fish', i.e. it is not clear whether it should be treated more like fish or meat. Hence the problems that RMK might face in mitigating its liquidity problems, which is clearly temporary. He's not exactly an institution or a public limited company. At the same time, he owns a very large public asset. It makes perfect sense for Villu to think that the forest must earn income for the people of Estonia. He has done so and hopefully will continue to do so if management is reasonable. The amount of liquidity needed by the firm to pay the dividend does not put into question the prudentness of forest management. This is a natural economic activity, which unfortunately has complex administrative constraints because of its confused organisational form.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U65	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Yesterday, representatives of KredEx were visiting the Committee on Economic Affairs. They were concerned that they were not sure whether they would be able to continue their successful reconstruction program next year. The budget currently includes EUR 10 million, which should come from the sale of greenhouse gas quotas, but this is not yet certain. Can you encourage us to find this money and remain in the budget and, next year, this reconstruction allowance can be distributed to housing associations, just as it was this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U67	Thank you. No, you can't. I would rather that officials do not overheat these expectations, because this solution is not in our hands right now. The European Commission, which is organising quota trade, is very concerned about the ridiculously low price of quotas and is trying to influence this market with sales restrictions. Therefore, we do not know how much we will be able to sell quotas next year, at least we did not know when the budget was being made. It is very difficult for us to predict to what level the price of quotas could go to. The revenue from quota sales planned in the budget is well-conceived. The political choice is that when the money comes from there, the apartment buildings get it, but we don't know how much. I don't like it when I hear another official on the radio saying that they should keep submitting these requests. I think a good master does. But if there is a queue ahead and we do not know exactly how much these requests can be met, then the country has overheated expectations here. Maybe that doesn't make sense. Ideally, the state has not taken the view that it is reconstructing all privately owned houses. It's still a split of money, and it's a limited resource that doesn't last forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U68	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi! I will return to my first question and your answer. I thank you very much for your proverbs and such directions. Still, it is a pleasure to listen to what is wiser than yourself and try to learn from his experience. In accordance with the procedure of the reply, Kalle Laane asked about Table 120, which relates to labour costs. You started talking about investments. I guess it was a misunderstanding. But my second question still relates to the 11% increase in teachers' salaries. Does the municipality have to pay more to make this increase 11%? If it has to, doesn't it conflict with the constitutional idea that when a state imposes obligations on a municipality, it must be covered entirely by money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U70	Thank you. There were about four issues, I remembered three. First of all, thank you for the credit! I assure you you will be able to learn from me. My experience, especially in the financial field, is quite considerable. As far as municipalities are concerned, I confirm over my first reply: all the money that the municipality receives is, in summary, collected by the State and received by the municipality through the tax administration. I don't know about local taxes or how much they should be counted here, but let's just say he gets almost all the money. What else can I say here? If you mean that municipalities will receive a little less investment support in the future, then the amount of 3 million that they will receive less is still small enough not to consider it a national preference. Please note that this money will not be given to anyone other than the teachers who will surely want a raise and whose work is worth it. We always have to redeploy resources. It is a fact that local governments have received the salaries of teachers from the state in a weak way. There has been some looseness in the documents, not even a contradiction, and this money has been used for other purposes. So the fact that the money for teachers' pay will go to this in the future is also part of this overall wage increase effort. That's right. You can try to pay for air and love, but in the end, you have to give real money and find it somewhere. But the state budget also simply increases this provision by EUR 7.5 million, which represents a significant part of the total wage increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U71	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Next year's state budget is a deficit budget, i.e. the difference between revenue and expenditure must be covered by other resources. Will the deficit for the following year be covered by reserves or will a loan be used for this purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U73	Thank you. We don't plan on borrowing. Municipalities have this plan and foundations have some kind of plan, but the central government does not plan to borrow. I hope that the economy will make it possible for there to be no setbacks. We still think that the amount spent on interest, nearly EUR 9 million, is already quite cumbersome, despite the fact that the average interest rate is around 1.4%. These are ridiculously cheap loans and a seemingly ridiculous loan burden, but we are still paying 9 million for interest. The warning example of Europe is in front of us. They only pay for interest almost half the money they pay for education or twice the money that goes to national defence. So it's worth pursuing a loan-free life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U74	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my first question, so I must be more specific. You had to investigate whether the laws that raise the fees had been passed. I can tell you that the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act will be at first reading tomorrow, and the draft bill on navigation fees will only be under discussion in the Commission this week and will come to first reading in November. Therefore, I will ask again: on which basis does the Ministry you manage plan revenue for the budget based on charges that have not yet been imposed by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U76	Thank you. I can certainly help with the procedure, and I will try to do so in the chair. I believe that the Minister will certainly be able to clarify this issue of investment during the readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U77	May I ask in return, is there anything we can do to help the questioner?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U78	No, you can't ask me back.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U79	But maybe we could help the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U80	Let's keep going. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U81	Thank you. I'll go with Mart Meri's question. He meant that R &amp; D expenditure would decrease from 0.96% of GDP to 0.94% of GDP. But I have two brief questions about higher education. First of all, your house is run by the student loan reform team. The first question: is the new concept so far away that it has been taken into account in the draft budget? The second issue concerns needs-based learning grants. The budget states, as a result of the entry into force of needs-based learning grants, that expenditure on study grants will increase by EUR 3.6 million. As a liberal, you will certainly support the assurance of the Minister of Education that, together with the need-based study grants, the results of the scholarships for successful students and professional scholarships for those who study in priority disciplines will also enter into force. The question is very simple: will the results and professional scholarships take effect from 1 September next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am asking about the growth of the payroll fund, mainly the growth of the payroll fund for cultural workers. It is currently the case that all different administrative areas receive equal growth of 4.4% in the payroll fund, although, for example, in the cultural sector, wages are lower than in many other areas. Would it not have been reasonable to use the differentiation of the growth of the payroll instead of sharing 4.4% equally between the ministries of industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U83	Thank you. I'll stick to my first answer. I would add that the government, when making the budget, has taken into account all knowledge of the state's revenue, including navigation fees and natural resource charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U84	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U85	Thank you. You're not comparing apples and oranges, you're probably comparing apples and rocks in the fields. This amount is still in the order of 2% and we are still at the top of Europe. It is an international standardized statistics and reflects state spending on culture. This proportion has not been reduced or is not intended to be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U86	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U87	Thank you. Good minister! You must have misunderstood my first question. My point was not that defence spending should only be done in the light of specific needs if something has happened, but rather why an additional EUR 20 million needs to be allocated next year. Do you think that further allocation of such funds is justified at a time when there are major socio-economic problems in the country? If these EUR 20 million were to become teachers' salaries or to build a road, then it would be much more compatible with the necessity principle. We are talking about an additional EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U88	Thank you. Are you talking about defense costs now? Yes, as I said, defence costs are designed to prevent war and ensure national security. The retention of 2% has actually brought us very tangible political benefits, it has improved our reputation and also brought us financial benefits. The dignity of a country is something that is always difficult to measure. But we sense how important it is that the country keeps its international promises. All in all, we will face many times more security. Estonia may feel quite brave because it has contributed as promised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U89	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Years ago, local authorities and the state worked together successfully and several sites were created in the regions, where the state had its responsibilities and its own responsibilities. As far as I know, these are objects in the fields of education, culture and sport. In the following year, the State will also be obliged to participate in the payment of this investment aid. Are these amounts earmarked for local authorities in the draft state budget? I mean the state part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U91	Thank you. I do think the state is fulfilling its responsibilities. It is simply a matter of making a distinction between what are responsibilities and what is someone's view of responsibilities. I don't know what exactly you're talking about and what there might be a problem here, but these risks have certainly been realisticly assessed by the Minister of Education. The choice of giving preference to a teacher rather than to the so-called strategic issue of education, I think, has been correct. Resources are limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U92	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is about your own jurisdiction. We have talked a lot here, both today and in previous days, about the need to step up the fight against envelope wages and smuggling at the border. However, Table 112, which relates to the budget for the Ministry of Finance's administration, shows that the wage costs of the Tax and Customs Board are reduced by 0,74%. Can you explain what's behind this, some kind of reorganization and lay-offs? Can you make sure that we do not reduce the fight against negative processes in society next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U94	Thank you. I haven't even noticed there's such a reduction. But I do agree very much with the IRS Director-General about the restructuring he's made. I can't believe you've found the right number. But if you're right, I'm going to check it out, I wouldn't be referring here to the reorganisations that have been made in the IRS. We've been getting more pay from the government for a couple of years. We have made restructuring in such a way that the number of levels of governance has fallen from three to two, we have increased the proportion of people who actually work with taxpayers. This has been an extremely effective choice in the sense that all the expectations of an additional levy have been exceeded. At the same time, restructuring costs something. This year, when they are made, certain redundancy payments are to be paid, for example, but they do not need to be paid next year. I suppose this change is due to it. The Tax and Customs Board, together with the entire state sector, will receive more salaries. I'll check that number just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U95	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. § 157 of the Constitution says that the local government has an independent budget. You said before that the state budget was innovative. Indeed, it is because the revenue from the state budget has also been included in the revenue of local governments under the name of the taxes to be passed on: income tax, land tax and environmental charges received by local governments. Is this accounting change, which increases the size of the state budget, not in conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U97	I can't imagine how it could be. I think that this may have been contrary to the Constitution so far, in that the state has not reflected all its revenues and costs in a single document. But time and expertise have not confirmed that it is. The financial turnover of the State must be recorded between the same covers. For purely substantive reasons, it is necessary to ensure that reporting and budgeting are carried out on the same basis. This will ensure much better availability and comparability of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U98	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U99	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. On page 37 of the explanatory memorandum, we can read that EUR 176,7 million are planned for leisure, cultural and religious activities in 2013. From the table below, we can see that this is 1% of GDP. The explanatory memorandum further states that according to Eurostat data for 2010, Estonia's expenditure on the sector was the largest in the European Union, accounting for 2.1% of GDP, while the European Union average was only 1.2%. Based on this 2.1%, the Prime Minister has repeatedly stated in this Chamber that Estonia's expenditure on culture is very high and there is no possibility of increasing anything. He has not wanted to understand my explanation for the content of this statistics. In two years, you have managed to reduce this share of GDP from 2.1% to 1%, or well below the EU average. My question is: how have you achieved this in two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U100	Thank you. I would argue that such reductions can only result from the closure of certain projects or from the correction of forecasts if certain expenditure has been lower than the amounts previously earmarked for this purpose in the budget. These surpluses have been spent by many ministers in a new area. I guess they're the best respondents. If you are seriously interested in this subject, which I have no doubt about, we will try to get these answers. But the fact that the Estonian language should be less important has certainly not been the choice of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U101	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U102	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In society, the activities of the Gender Commissioner and his office have attracted increasing attention. Unfortunately, for objective reasons, the Gender Commissioner cannot do her job in a quality manner, because her workforce has been of the same size for years, while the number of work has increased, as the Gender Commissioner receives discrimination statements from citizens almost every day. I'm in the dark, maybe you can help me get into the light. How do you comment on the zero-percent change in the budget of the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, even in a situation where dealing with the gender pay gap and reducing it in Estonia is the will of the Riigikogu? Why does a Member State of the European Union, whose Minister for Finance attaches importance to the word'solidarity', not want to allocate money so that the gender institution can work normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U103	Thank you. I'd be willing to give the money if the social minister's preferences changed. But any official has to think about how important his actions are to society and how credible they seem. I do not think that many of the disputes initiated by the Gender Commissioner have proved that there is a need to increase funding for this institution. For example, my former running club was quite rightly inconvenient when they were accused of racism simply because they chose who to challenge. Another example: the Minister of Foreign Affairs must hear the opinion, also through the media, that we are discriminated against because he is Russian, in the sense that if he did not win the competition, it is because he is Russian. I know for a fact that both of these solutions were inadequate. Tar drops in the honey pot aren't really helping to fill the honey pot. It's true. But I assume that this 4.4% raise will also become something of the Gender Commissioner's office. I'm guessing. I need to hear confirmation from the Minister for Social Affairs who can make these choices. In this sense, we were very gender sensitive that both male and female ministers and the Gender Commissioner would all lose the same raise again. We made sure there was no discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U104	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U105	Thank you. Good minister! The price is considered to be one of the most important factors influencing alcohol consumption. A 5% increase in alcohol duty is foreseen next year. At the same time, studies by the Institute of Economics show that there were 3% buyers of secret alcohol in 2007, compared to 9% in 2010. Does the budget provide for funds to combat illegal alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U106	Thank you. I do not know how much this figure will be reflected in this budget, but the Tax and Customs Board has gained resources in previous budgets precisely to deal with direct tax fraud. I suppose I will soon be asked how illegal alcohol trade or simply cheap vodka consumption are being harassed at the border. You'll see that the question comes. The Chancellor of Justice had to answer that question yesterday. Low-cost alcohol, which is produced by mass across borders, is a national problem not only in terms of tax receipts but also in terms of alcohol consumption. We have made a strong contribution to limiting it, we intend to continue to do so and monitor how the laws support it. Of course, private activities are secret production. There's been some success here, too. They've been reported in the media. But this is not an easy area. Where there are excise goods, there is also a commercial interest in using fraud. There are always lawyers among opinion leaders. For example, a fine talk show said how you could get cheap vodka for your own use for weddings and so on. I think that's a lie too. Why would vodka be cheap at weddings? Why? The point of the excise is, however, that people do not lower their throats as much as they physically can, but have a wallet limit ahead, and the money spent on paying excise duty must be shared with society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U107	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I want to come back to the question put by Kalev Kallo. The question is about tax increases and the rise in fees that are already planned for the budget, but which have not yet been confirmed by law. More specifically, I am interested in the fee for waterways, which has caused a great deal of resentment among shipping companies. We are going to talk about this in the Committee on Economic Affairs tomorrow, and perhaps we will find some way to reduce this fee or eliminate it altogether. It is clear that this fee is necessary to build an icebreaker for Estonia. But maybe there are other ways. If a compromise is reached on this tomorrow, do you think the government will be willing to make changes to the state budget and to act in accordance with the agreements that may be concluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U109	Thank you. The law does not allow such a compromise if there is simply a reduction in the revenue of the State, but there is no reduction in costs. No, I won't. Nor do I think that those people who appear in the name of large companies are always automatically reasonable in their statements. What I heard was the government driving over them and not caring about them. That's what they said last time, and then they used the same words. They say they're so big, they say they're in some position of power, but why aren't they given power? I think that there are many more painful problems in society than reducing navigation charges, which should be solved through the state budget. They have still not risen for 20 years, and I believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs has adequately delivered these assessments. But if he is wrong here, please note that in order to make this change, it is necessary to reduce the cost of the state budget, because this revenue has already been included in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U110	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U111	Thank you. Well, there's some kind of investment or purchase that's going to shift that amount a little bit. Basically, there is a wage increase in the ambulance, where a specific percentage of the budget has already been taken into account. We have taken into account the new cost structures of the Health Insurance Fund, which basically reduce access to medical services, but increase medical salaries more quickly than would have happened with patient-centred choice. These amounts will be increased in parallel in the state budget. The ambulance is one of those places.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U112	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U113	Mr. Minister! You've said so many good words here today that I'd like to help you with something. Looks like the money's missing. That's my question. Where would you, as a minister, agree to increase the state's revenue? Those places where you don't agree to increase, you don't have to name them, I know them. But where would you agree to proposals that increase the state's revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U114	Thank you. I would, above all, agree with those proposals that increase the country's revenue due to GDP growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U115	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U116	Let's get on with the questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U117	Thank you. I don't know this detail, it hasn't made any massive cost to me. Check with the Minister of Education. This is not about liberalism or conservatism, but must be checked specifically. Need-based study grants have been the political agenda of the Minister of Education. Of them, I know they will come into effect from the new academic year. But with regard to student loans, we've had these periods of understanding and misunderstanding. I'm confused whether it finally came to us as a choice or not. There have been different scenarios, more radical and less radical. There has been an opinion that all this activity should be given to the private sector, which I do not consider to be real. We finally came to some sort of compromise that should share student loan risks with the private sector. Surely this system is very bad, and I believe that by now changes have been planned. But I'm sorry, there's a lot of individual issues! This knowledge is more of a summer experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U118	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The state budget lacks an overview of the investments in 2013, there is only a brief overview of the main investments made through Riigi Kinnisvara AS. How many new objects are planned to be built and how much to renovate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U120	Thank you. A lot! I also called one of the investments in the speech. I'll see if I can find it in a hurry. They are, in themselves, nice figures, but not necessarily too practical. Somewhere that data is. One of the problems with this amount of investment is that this money is largely divided between RKAS and the budget. That's why we're gonna have to look for the bill longer. But there will be no investment. All right, the volume of investment here is EUR 921.7 million. If you want to know how much of this goes into the shell boxes, you should dissect that number a little bit. But EUR 921.7 million is the volume of public investment. That is a very large amount of money, I would like to emphasise once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U121	A procedural question, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U122	Thank you. Good manager! Is there anything you can do to help the waitress answer her questions so she can have some kind of help in the procedure or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U123	Thank you. It would have made sense, but it would have been a little more difficult to do it the other way around. This equal distribution has its advantages. Those who make serious structural reforms receive additional money in the same way as others and, due to internal restructuring, they receive additional money. Of course, there is a human and political aspect here. Whoever says it's okay, he'll take less. This is a very pragmatic choice. It was a bit easier to go in the way of resistance, but it also has its perks. Of course, in dividing it by 4,4%, ministers themselves can make great choices. You mentioned culture. It was only yesterday that we discussed with the Minister for Culture how to alleviate the unfair situation in the cultural sphere even a little bit, in the case of one bottleneck. We also come and give a small request to the Riigikogu. It's about music theaters to improve their funding a little bit. As a percentage, leaving doctors is far from our biggest problem, but rather it is the departure of musicians from Estonia. There is probably no such situation anywhere else that so many highly trained specialists from the state go to work abroad. In these theaters, the pay problem really hurts. Go to the concert and think about it! I think you may have thought about how low the wage is when a good job is done in Estonia and how little noise and demand it. These people should be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U124	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you answered my first question, you made it clear that there was no need to ask specific questions, no answer coming anyway. That is why my second question is a completely different area. You will remember that the Riigikogu sometimes learns a lot of interesting things in the costaars, not in this Chamber. At the moment, such hunks move, perhaps they are true to the fact that you have been betting with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Parts, which of you will sink the Estonian economy faster. Is that true, and if so, what did you bet on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U126	Thank you. I don't comment on idiots.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U127	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Here somebody asked me who it was about the cost of protection. We have all lived with the knowledge that 2% of GDP is a lot of money that we should manage. I happen to have a son in the Defence Forces. When he comes home, I've had to buy him a knife because his knife doesn't cut a flashlight because his flashlight doesn't burn. This morning I received an SMS that the boys were sent to the woods and distributed chocolate, which expired four months ago. I was happy to see the army's money increase by 22%. Now I see that it is intended for staff costs. What's the matter? Do you not know how to read money or how to manage money more effectively, or was their real need much greater? Will the Defence Forces ever get sharp knives and suitable chocolate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U129	Thank you. Certainly, the Minister of Finance does not visit the expiry date for chocolate or check the sharpness of the knives. The point of this question is clearly directed at someone else. But such problems, of course, can spoil the mood. I think it should be dealt with. In itself, the Minister of Defence has called the military's domestic conditions the most important choice of next year. Maybe it'll give you a little relief. If the barracks are more well, perhaps sharpening the knife may wait a few days, but it will also be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U130	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U131	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Let's talk about the R &amp; D costs. The government has declared that 1% of GDP will be spent on R &amp; D in this year's budget. If you look more closely, it turns out that this is not the case. It turns out that R &amp; D support, even compared to this year, will decrease slightly in the next financial year. So there is conflicting data in this document, and it is quite difficult for us to orient ourselves in the draft state budget. This contradiction, which I have noticed at the moment, is perhaps not very large in absolute terms, it accounts for about 1% of the annual budget of the Estonian Research Council. However, how should we cope with all these contradictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U132	Thank you. I may have lost one keyword, but I can assure you that support for R &amp; D in the national budget will be increased in absolute terms. It's still roughly 1%. I can't find the right papers so fast, but I'll stick to it. I'll check it out. I'll find it. These amounts will increase to EUR 166.1 million, which is EUR 6 million more than this year. I lost whatever facility you called me. 6 million more will come, this amount will increase to EUR 169.1 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U133	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about medicine. We know that the ambulance service is financed differently from the normal medical service, not from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but from the state budget. We also know that the role of emergency medicine in healthcare is increasing. We know that the assembly of ambulance brigades is difficult because the pay is not competitive there, and we know that the ambulance system is not on strike. Now the question: why will the amount allocated to the Health Board next year for the provision of ambulance services be reduced? The Agency will receive EUR 130000 less than in the previous year. Why the change? Is this a fundamental change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U135	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I didn't get an answer to my first question, but you said I could ask the Minister for Economic Affairs, and I would be happy to do so. Let me ask you a little bit more. As Minister of Finance, you know that it is not very important to the banks whether they have bad or good loans. However, the stability of the situation is extremely important for banks. If there's any kind of panic, the depositors will start withdrawing money from the banks. I have a question, given that the top politicians of your home party have a lot of cash in their lockers, the money has been taken out of the bank and is already being held elsewhere than in bank accounts: is there any disturbance in the banking market and is the liquid money of the Estonian state still in the accounts of reliable banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U136	Thank you. I hope that your voters, too, I do not know how many of them are left with plenty of cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U137	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U138	Thank you. In this year's budget, we have so-called reserved EUR 200 million for the expansion of the share capital of Eesti Energia. I understand this has to do with the construction of a new 300 megawatt oil shale block. In the Committee on Finance, we asked your ministry official, which is the reason that the company itself does not take the necessary money, for example, as a loan on the market. The answer was that, given the current capitalisation and the so-called company perspective, this company would not be able to obtain this money from the credit market. What is your personal position as to whether or not the state should support Eesti Energia in this form for two years in a row?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U139	Thank you. The state does not support Eesti Energia. Of course, some economic primary education would be useful to discuss the subject in substance. You have taken the economic issue very strongly, but you clearly do not have some basics. I didn't either until I learned the economy. The capitalisation of the company does not mean that it will not borrow from the market. This means that he would rather borrow more from the market. Increasing the company's core capital does not mean supporting the company but capitalising.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U140	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You said in your speech that a number of international organisations, including the OECD, have supported the government's tax policy. However, if you look at the OECD recommendations for several years, it appears that they have questioned most of the tax changes made and planned by that government. The report makes it clear that direct tax reductions should take place in the interests of the well-being of the low-paid. Therefore, you are not in favour of lowering the overall rate of income tax, but are advised to review this decision and instead to increase the tax-free minimum. It is also recommended that social tax relief be applied to people on low pay, not to those on high pay, as stated in the government action programme. On the other hand, it is recommended that property, especially real estate, be taxed more, since this is the type of tax that causes the least distortion. However, the government has supported the abolition of land tax. In other words, for most specific tax policy options, the OECD has been quite critical of government activities. What conclusions have you drawn from the OECD recommendations when you could claim in your speech that the OECD supports government tax policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U141	Thank you. The OECD is massively supporting our monetary policy. Massive! If you're looking for details there, we're in an extraordinary situation as a country, because they're only looking for details. We can say that we have been a favourite to the OECD for decades, one of its best students. You're right about property tax. Real estate tax is considered by the OECD to be the least damaging or neutral tax on the economy. At the other end there's company tax. We have been limiting the corporate tax burden for a long time. I am always very proud to see how countries are struggling in this direction, but cannot do it because of political barriers. The OECD says that the tax most detrimental to the economy is corporate income tax. Labour taxes are the second most damaging factor. What have we done? We have reduced unemployment insurance contributions by 1.2% in one year, which naturally means a significant burden on public finances and on the overall financial balance. This tax reduction also applies to the full to low-paid people. In proportion, they are even more affected. This does not mean that we are only acting in this direction. Maximum equality is not our ultimate goal. We must also consider the economic environment. Tax reduction is something that is directly linked to the economic environment, it is not a social measure. This is a question of the attractiveness of the investment environment. This concerns both corporate tax (I note that it is, according to the OECD, the most restrictive tax on the economy) and consumer capacity and people's savings opportunities. If you want to further develop this discussion, I can provide you with documents. If you want, you'll find details, but it's even better if you find the whole thing. I have noticed how reasonably your father has commented on the tax system. As far as property tax is concerned, I do not support it in Estonian circumstances because I do not like new taxes at all, but in the case of real estate there is also a clear disproportion between current solvency and ownership of real estate in Estonia. They're in a weak relationship. Our development has been uneven and, as a result, this burden would also be unevenly divided. At the same time, we have acquired more expensive real estate mostly under very heavy loan burdens, and our newer real estate is mostly built with the help of a loan. In the last decade, the debt burden on these people increased very rapidly. So I would not want real estate tax to be imposed in Estonia. The land tax is, as I have also said, that I am not a fan of this decision by the government or the coalition, but, given all the positive things this coalition has managed to do, it is a cheap price. This coalition is certainly the best for Estonia, despite certain tricks or odds associated with some political choice. It's just a little bit of detail again. Of course, it would have been nice if the land tax burden in Tallinn at times had not given rise to such an initiative. After all, it is mainly Tallinn's problem that in certain areas the tax burden has so far been fought against people whose votes are not sent to themselves. I'm afraid that's the case. Tallinn's financial choices are very strongly directed towards the electorate in power.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U142	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! According to § 13 (2) of the Sport Act, the budget includes public contributions to Olympic winners amounting to EUR 62400. The grant rate is EUR 600 per month and one Olympic winner will be added in 2013. As I recall, there were no Olympic winners in London. Or do you have other information?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U144	Thank you. I do know an Olympic winner who is no longer among us. At least one has left in the last year. But the one Olympic winner who's been added, it's hard for me to figure out. Is someone helping me or not helping me? Mnemo tournament. Maybe there's something wrong with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U145	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In order to propose improvements to the draft state budget, it is necessary to seek out sources of cover for them. On the other hand, these potential sources of cover have been jealously hidden by the budget authors, since it is by reference to the lack of a real source of cover that it is easiest to reject proposals for improvement. I looked at the state budget statement. Its 21st page states that it is planned to increase the share capital of Eesti Energia by 150 million to 200 million euros. Which of these figures are actually reflected in the state budget, and is there perhaps EUR 50 million to cover the proposed improvements? Or is it just a little slap?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U147	Thank you. The reserve is still EUR 200 million. I stress that this is a financial transaction. If you're doing some kind of redecorating, first see if it's a law or an explanatory statement. The turnover of a financial transaction must certainly not be transformed into expenditure. But an aspiring member of the Riigikogu must always be! So it is worth trying and not just on this issue. The Constitution, if I'm not mistaken, even demands that the cover be found if you want to spend. I think we can also give the people of your group some hints where there could be room for manoeuvre, if the Riigikogu thinks differently in some detail about the cost of the budget than the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U148	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Discussions on the budgets of cities and rural municipalities across Estonia are currently taking place. As we know, next year the price of electricity, as well as the price of heat, will probably also increase the price of water and sewerage. It is difficult for cities and municipalities to decide which price increases should be taken into account and which reserves should be placed to cover the rise in public utility payments. They ask what the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance recommend. What increase does the draft budget take into account? What increases in electricity, water and sanitation and heat prices were you considering in the budget in the institutions administered by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U150	Thank you. In the case of bodies administered by the State, there will be well-defined negotiations on how to cover the costs incurred by the institutions. In the case of assets owned by the RKAS, this is also reflected in the payments made by the RKAS. That's what we've funded. We have also encouraged the real estate reform, by doing so, so that public authorities give up excessive real estate and investment in real estate is systematic. Of course, communal expenditure is one of the sources of expenditure that the budget must cover. The same is true for municipalities. However, the big picture is that inflation is projected to go down rather than up all prices. To answer the question of how an institution plans its budget, I should, of course, know that institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U151	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U152	Thank you. Good minister! On page 54 of the explanatory memorandum, there is a table of objectives and costs for sectoral policies. Sector policies are shaped by government in a conservative, sustainable and effective way. But there are two lines in this table where the amounts are significantly reduced. Your explanation, please! Firstly, there is a competitive economic environment where the state's contribution is reduced by 14.04%. Secondly, there is the Estonian language, which is an important policy area and where this amount will decrease by as much as 51.88%. How do you explain these decreases?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! The new form of the budget was approved for making it possible to better compare the budgets of the various years. Why has the 2012 bill not been put aside for the 2013 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U154	Thank you. It is difficult to make different forms of presentation comparable. I think you can set aside this year's budget yourself for the 2013 budget. Then you come to the same conclusion. We are still improving the entire accounting system, reforming the financial management of the country as a whole. Changing the budget picture is part of it. We want the accounting and accounting rules to be identical and comparable. We've been acting like one. It's more important now. If the budgets are so different that it is difficult to compare them, then at some point this change must be made. Now we've done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U155	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! The Estonian state has recently made a very strong contribution to all kinds of stability mechanisms. EFSF guarantees accounted for one third, ESM will be paid EUR 30 million this year, plus EUR 30 million of real money. The state of Estonia has increased its payment capital in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Eesti Pank has taken its share in the increase of IMF capital. Today, we're going to do some more of these magnifications. Namely, increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank is one of the topics here today. Capital contributions to the European Investment Bank are to be increased by more than EUR 7 million. Next year's state budget includes the creation of the Baltic Innovation Fund and Estonia's participation in it by 20 million euros. Please talk about this innovation fund that will be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U157	Thank you. The Innovation Fund is an initiative of the Baltic States where the government has been a bit reluctant, but in the end it has accepted that some part of support for entrepreneurship could go through this fund. The Minister of Economic Affairs is the best lawyer here. He's done these things, brought them to the government a few times. This is, after all, an opportunity to support entrepreneurship and, hopefully, an effective outcome. We hope that it will also provide some synergy if we look at the Baltic countries in a coherent way. But what will be the policy of this fund itself, of course, I cannot predict in any way. More specifically, the Minister for Economic Affairs can think of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U158	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U159	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! Do you have anything to say to those municipalities that receive less money from land tax compensation than the ones they lose due to the abolition of land tax, who will be taken away from the investment component in education costs and where the state secondary schools promoted by the Minister of Education will not come in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U160	Thank you. I think your best comforter is our mutual friend Eiki Nestor, who is deeply ironic about the notion that Estonia's largest social risk group is municipalities. I can't be that ironic, and I admit, it's always painful for those who make the budget. If any amount is taken away, another amount must be rescheduled and in some places it will be more painful than elsewhere. But according to our calculations, there are only a few municipalities that are left uncompensated for land tax. Those municipalities who claim that the main issue of education is the cornerstone of the new building, not the competitive pay of teachers and the value of their work, I think, have none. We live in one country, we are one country, we have common priorities. If a person lives in a municipality, he/she also lives in a country, if he/she lives in a country, then he/she also lives in a municipality. If the person's well-being improves, the well-being of both the state and the municipal citizen will be improved. We do things in common, and that is the way we look at them. As the teacher's salary rises, both the national and municipal citizens will have to pay, and better teachers will be expected from both the state and the local government. So let's forget about this confrontation. I think these choices have been basically correct. You know my skepticism about land tax. I have even been so skeptical about this compensation that I think that, in fact, the municipalities should not be paid what benefits their citizens. Why should the state always compensate for everything the citizen actually wins from his own pocket? Why should I? I don't know. But we've decided that for a long time. At one point, the border has to be set, and then it has to be withdrawn, just as the rate of income tax has been withdrawn during the crisis. Stupidly allowed, that's my point. Too much was allowed to turn that percentage in favour of the local governments all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U161	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The ranking of the capacity of local governments shows that the level of local governments in Estonia is still different. Good minister! When the Ministry of Finance put together the budget for 2013, was it the principle that we come to the aid of local governments that are not close to Tallinn and are unable to obtain a resource tax, or was the old rule used to share the love of the state equally with everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U163	Thank you. We have always followed this principle of municipal funding so that those who are poorer will receive compensation from the state. It's in the formula. Now we've changed things. I think you mentioned resources. If you mean the payment of natural resources, then the mining fees are going to be shared a little more evenly. I do not know at what stage this issue is in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, but we have already made the first such amendment in 2009. For example, the oil shale tax is allocated a little more evenly, not just to those municipalities with mines. Mining isn't going to be undone anyway, and that money doesn't really go back to restoring nature's former state of affairs. In the future, this money will go on a larger scale to the fine-tuning fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U164	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Yesterday, the question of the taxation of fuel in vehicles crossing the borders of Estonia and Russia was quite acute. This summer, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is trying to develop this area, but the Chancellor of Justice estimates that there are a lot of questions here, and this area still needs to be cleaned up. What do you think if, as a result of this reorganisation, the amount earmarked for this area is reduced in the budget (this money is tens of millions), can you find new sources, or are you not going to change that amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U166	Thank you. I didn't catch what kind of money you were talking about. Tens of millions for what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U167	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U168	Thank you. Good minister! Browsing the budget, it appears that the Ministry of Education and Research has planned EUR 4.1 million in preparation costs for general education and restructuring of the school network. That's a lot of money. What's the plan to spend it on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U169	Thank you. I've even studied it. Let's see if I can find this place. Here are some preparatory activities that the Minister of Education has considered necessary. You called this amount EUR 4.1 million. You weren't wrong. It'll take projects to prepare, design, and stuff like that. This requires very specific clarification. If I could do that, I'd still be very smart, but I don't think I have to go into that kind of detail. There is also a practical problem here. We do not have a budget for the European Union, but a large part of the investment comes from there. In order to be able to start using the money immediately in 2014, rather than as was the case at the beginning of the previous period, such a take-off is justified. But I don't know all the technical details here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U170	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, On the line of the Ministry of the Environment, there are 15 million euros in revenue planned for the sale of the circa 1500 properties. As we continue at this rate, land not needed for government will be sold for another 10 to 15 years. Would it not be appropriate to speed up the pace a little bit? Money, on the one hand, and land tax in the coming years, on the other hand, would probably be better used by the new owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U172	Thank you. Budgetaryly, the sale of this land for the purpose of obtaining money has been set up in recent years. I didn't like it at all. This will overwhelm the market, but there are administrative boundaries. The other way around, there's some pressure on the budget. It is not the budget makers who are able to assess precisely if such a source of revenue comes, whether it is realisticly valued. We're trying to evaluate all these things, but we don't know that exactly, because market information is still the more accurate the closer you get to this activity. It's like that and it's like that. There are administrative boundaries here, it is important that the market's absorption capacity, too, is that the state must look at revenue from a longer perspective rather than at raising the cost level by rapidly realising one-off revenue sources. It's not like the price of the land is gonna go down for ten years, it's not gonna get sour. It can be hoped that the economy will recover and that the market situation will also improve. The problem is not that anything goes to waste. Every year, we have had a brief exchange of views and compromises on this issue in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U173	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! Since we are running out of working time and, as you can see, the avalanche of questions is over for today, and it seems that this first reading of the budget is over for you at all, perhaps you will sum up the whole positive side of it in a few words. What good news is there in this budget for the people of Estonia? Why don't you give us a few words of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Next year it is planned to exempt the land under home from tax and it is also known that the online land tax information system will be launched in 2015 hopefully. But there's got to be a way to live. The draft state budget for the following year is planned for municipalities at EUR 990000. Let's multiply by 15.6. We're going to get about 15 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U176	But then they will be Estonian kroons!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U177	Dear Minister, let me finish this question. Please return the microphone to Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U178	Thank you. This decision was made by the government, and it did not cause much controversy. The construction of energy blocks was subject to a separate dispute, the investment projects of Eesti Energia have been discussed separately. But the sum of 200 million euros will be placed in Eesti Energia, I do not know for sure. I think that during this year we will assess the investment needs of Eesti Energia and look at it again. Here wisdom comes gradually, because very much depends on the market situation, especially given the opening-up of the market and the climate policy of the European Union. This is a well-estimated amount that is currently included in the budget as a cap. This year, I recall, we have already invested 150 million euros in it and it has not been regretted. Of course there are more of these projects. This capital injection is not made solely for the purpose of building this one boiler. Eesti Energia has a longer investment plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U179	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U180	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will return to the standard of living of the people once again. Why all the optimism? This year, for example, pensions rose by 4.4%, while the increase was much higher. Last week we read the news that the price increase in Estonia is the fastest in the European Union. If we look at wage or pension increases next year, it is clear that the increase in the price of electricity and room heating will exceed them. What's your answer to the fact that the standard of living is bound to rise? In my opinion, living expenses are growing faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U181	Thank you. If you were expecting me to say no, you wouldn't get it. You put together verbal and numerical estimates in your assessment. I'd compare the numbers. I can say that real wages have increased in Estonia since the third quarter of 2011, pensions have also been raised and this has been done more than inflation. The last monthly inflation I remember was 4.1, but the annual average is probably going to be lower. Of course, as I said, this is a risky area, because predicting inflation is an ungrateful job. We are much more vulnerable than other European countries to inflation, because we are a small and open country, because food and energy are greater in our people's consumption basket, and we also have faster economic growth, which gives such demand-side space for inflation to rise. So there's nothing to be surprised about. Economics can explain very well why we have a little higher inflation than in other parts of Europe, not much higher. Yes, well-being growth is currently very clearly covered by inflation forecasts in various areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U182	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is relatively simple and short. How do you feel about today's wisdom and today's knowledge, in today's situation, being a finance specialist and also an experienced politician, do you appreciate whether this draft budget has gotten things right as far as we can? What are your inner emotions? Are you happy with the budget plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U184	Thank you. I think the sausage that's been sent to the counter, I'm pretty pleased, it looks good. But remembering it, appetite isn't that good anymore. I guess it's come with trouble, and it hasn't all been my choice. For the Minister of Finance, the most important thing is whether we behave as we can and whether we can promise that our efforts will not undermine the prospects for the future. Well, it's all right here in the end. We are practically structurally balanced, and the nominal deficit is quite modest. We don't have to go to the loan market. All these very drastic freezing and freezing measures have actually ended. There are only internal choices left, which must always be made, and then there is a choice to make with an increase. Not bad, let's say so. You don't have to be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U185	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm gonna ask you about a very small detail, and I hope you don't mind. The question is about the collection of customs duties at the eastern border. I think you are aware of the Chancellor of Justice's view that the legal space in this area is currently unclear. People don't know how to pay or what to pay for. What's interesting is that, as far as I know, the duty that people are collecting is only paid in cash. My question in the context of the budget is this: can the customs duties collected in the budget at the eastern border be paid in other ways, not only in cash, next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U187	Thank you. First of all, I'll give you an estimate. Indeed, state power can always cause discomfort. Tax collection is not a convenient process. But the people who come to the border with a clear conscience (and most come) are not confused. The choices made by the tax administration have actually been relatively gentle. Business is going a little further, but massive business is limited. The issue of tax collection is, of course, rightly set out. Several forms of payment must be pursued. I'm sure I'll ask the head of the IRS if there's any improvement to be expected. Well, that's pretty lame, if it's just cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U188	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U189	Thank you. Over time, the Minister's answers are becoming more and more sincere and cordial. I now also want a sincere and heartfelt answer. In line with the increase in social tax receipts and the rise in the consumer price index, the pension index should be 6,36 next year if the forecasts on the basis of which the budget is based are valid. The government decided to increase pensions by less than 5%. So far, I have found a man in the government coalition who has dared to admit that fact. I would be pleased if the Minister of Finance was another man who would do this, and if he would explain why the government would not raise pensions by 6.36% but less.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U190	Thank you. What is undistributed result? The undivided result is an overcharged amount in good times that could not be exploited. In fact, this unallocated result could be even more. It is clear that we do not know exactly the end of bad times, because let us admit that growth of 3% and the current level of unemployment are not yet a good time. We must, in any case, be restrained by the introduction of results, but next year the EUR 9.1 million will be mobilised. That's a lot of money, and it's all going to medicine. I'm more concerned because it's in a hurry. I am, of course, extremely concerned that there is such a way of thinking that we are going to get rich and pay over Finnish salaries. This is a completely impossible mission, it is a completely impossible task, which is placed on the health insurance fund and which is now desperately being put on the government as well. In fact, it should be a matter of negotiations with employers. What's to deny, a sustainable health model doesn't exist. The growing number of people in need, i.e. an ageing population, an ever-increasing and expensive service, and an increasingly declining number of people of tax-paying age, have in fact not yet solved this dead-end financing model. The only model that works enough is that economic cycles must be monitored and cost increases must be contained. There must be no overselling and bluffing, as was the case during the booming season, when wages increased by a few ten percent a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U191	Thank you. I apologise to the waitress and the registered speakers. Since time is pressing, we have a vote to take in the meantime. The Board of the Riigikogu has received an application from the Isamaa and Res Publica Association to extend the session. Mr. Secretary, you can sit down for a few minutes. We're preparing for the voting procedure. Would Eiki Nestor like to ask a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U192	This is such an important question that I am asking for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U193	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 12.48.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U194	Let's get back to the hearing. I will vote on the proposal received from the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 28 abstentions. As two thirds of the voters are required to be in favour of this proposal, the proposal was not supported. We will continue to answer questions. Please, Thomas Tõniste, a question for the Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U195	Thank you. Dear Minister, Recently, many have learned that living beyond power is unsustainable. Estonia stands out here with its conservative monetary policy. Against this background, it is incomprehensible to many why it was decided to build the Estonian National Museum, which was designed too large in good times, in full. I wanted to ask how this will affect the financing of culture in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U196	Thank you. This has an impact on the financing of culture in an increasing way, as the State has chosen one large object and the revenue of the State has been increased to this end. In the case of ERM, when it comes to oversized objects, one view is that we are building it for a hundred or fifty years, and that is what we have to do with the reserve. I would have preferred a cheaper option. But I have also said in other cases, for example in the case of road construction (this subject may be closer to you) that some projects have been overdimensioned. I am pleased that now one of the leaders of the Road Administration has confirmed my estimates that they are chirpingly large expenditures, in the same order of magnitude as the construction of the Estonian National Museum, but there are not many cars on these roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U197	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U198	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You explained so well to us about the health fund's results that there are good times and bad times. I remembered the Bible account of Pharaoh's dream of seven lean cows that ate seven powerful cows. At that time, Joseph explained Pharaoh's dream. He said there would be seven years of trouble and a reserve would have to be set up. That was the first national reserve in human history. I understand in this way that, in order to level out good and bad times, the Health Insurance Fund still has a reserve, but the result that is not allocated is simply health care that has not been provided to people. Shouldn't the reserve be used to level out bad times, but to provide health care for unallocated outcomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U199	Thank you. I don't know if the Health Insurance Fund can help with the visions, but generally we're not dealing with a crash situation so we should start spreading this last reserve. We are clearly dealing with a raging economy, and we were dealing with an overheated economy if we could have put even more money aside in order not to create a situation where we even had to cut the medical pay in the meantime. Now, I say, the medical team is doing a lot better than average, not only because half the doctors are earning at least the minister's income, let's say so, because some of it is receiving dividends, but also because their wage growth has been much faster than elsewhere in the public sector. They complain that their wages are not at the level where they were before they were cut. I also live with the median medical income, and my income is at the 2006 level. This is where the debate really goes, what are somebody's estimates of their income. My income is absolutely livable, and it will also be at the 2006 level next year. I'm not saying I have to get 5%, 50% or 75% every year, as the demands of the strikers have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U200	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U201	The overall amounts are known and may also be specified. I am not quite sure that this is all a matter of state budget at all. The RAAS is also making changes within its budget. It is important how much his overall contribution is, how well it is covered by income. To sum up, we invest a lot. It does not necessarily have to be rigidly stated in the picture of the law. Some of the bigger objects I named. You, too, have found the place where they've been called. The great detail of the budget is not only a plus, it is sometimes a burden, it prevents reading. If you really care about this subject, which is natural, then let's try to help. Remember later!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U202	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U203	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We're discussing next year's state budget. The opening of the electricity market will be one of the key words of next year. As a result of this opening, electricity will increase to households and small businesses. After all, the price of electricity is subject to VAT. The higher the electricity bill, the more the VAT on electricity comes. In this context, I would like to know how much additional revenue the Ministry of Finance is planning for the state budget next year. How high is the cost of electricity in the state budget taken into account in the forecasts of VAT receipts and how much additional revenue will it generate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U204	Thank you. I do not have the VAT data for individual groups of goods at my disposal. I can ask the forecasters for this assessment, but the increase in electricity prices is certainly not a source of revenue, except in the case of the dividend. However, I have seen this as a burden on the economy on the one hand and a burden on public enterprises on the other. This is one very controversial thing. In addition, there is a burden on the payment of social benefits, as well as on wage pressures. In any case, it is not a guaranteed source of income. When talking about income, the dividend is more at issue than Eesti Energia succeeds in the market. Price increases are more clearly linked to the opening of the market in the near future, but let us not forget that this estimated 20% increase is also largely linked to the price of quotas, because Eesti Energia will have to buy quotas in the future. We still need to recall the basic truth: the opening-up of the market is not an end in itself, but a measure with which the European Union seeks a more efficient energy economy, a more secure supply and, ultimately, stronger competition. This is not something that has been done to bully consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U205	Thank you. My question is this: is the cost of compensating for the land tax exemption planned in the draft budget for the following year, which is intended for local authorities for management costs, sufficient? Are all activities covered and not a problem? Next year will start very soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U206	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The Estonian state currently has a development plan and strategy in place for 65 different areas of life. Do you dare to assess how much this bill reflects the objectives set out in these development plans and does the budget support the achievement of these objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U208	Thank you. This has so far been assessed as sufficient. I can't give you the heads, but these numbers aren't random. They've still been calculated. It's a good thing this money's being allocated. In itself, when it comes to a national decision, it does not necessarily have to be fully paid out of the central government budget. But we have made this choice and have tried to accurately estimate and compensate the costs of the municipalities. Of course, my preference would have been to wait a little bit for this change and to prepare IT solutions for it. The fact that this change is coming so quickly has given us quite a headache.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U209	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U210	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I've been listening very carefully to your performance for two hours. I have the impression that you are not very optimistic about next year. Hence my specific question: can you tell the average Estonian person that his standard of living will improve slightly next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U211	Thank you. I can say that. Of course, there is no statistically average person, but forecasts show quite broad real income growth today. We do not, of course, know what inflation will eventually be, but both wage growth in the public and private sectors and pension growth are higher than expected inflation. Some amounts are still growing rapidly, for example, the unemployment benefit is increasing to half the minimum wage, i.e. more than twice. Yes, I think the budget message is positive in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U212	Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U213	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am extremely sorry that I have to start explaining the basics of forestry to someone like you, educated and excited. When you answered my previous question, you said that, in difficult times, the forest has been helped. However, in the throes of achieving the balance of the state budget, you have unfortunately forgotten that RMK's budget must also have sufficient resources to build a new, high-quality forest generation. I dare say that by stunting the government, you have put a company that manages almost 50% of Estonia's forests in an extremely plightful situation, you have put all of our common assets at risk. If RMK fails to build and maintain a young forest enough, we will also jeopardise the competitiveness of our forest industry sector in the future. Have you done an analysis in the Ministry of Finance of what such fiscal policy, if you have taken EUR 89.7 million of owner's income from RMK over the last three years, will lead to the competitiveness of the entire forestry sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U214	Thank you. It's not like I've gotten smart, or I don't get smart, except by listening to expert advice. So don't regret it, just give me some advice. However, if you go into business and accounting, I am afraid that I am more inclined to choose the role of advisor here. If you look at the capital base of a company (we call RMK, especially when you talk about competitiveness, that is to say a company), it is abnormal if it operates entirely with equity and foreign capital is not involved at all. This is a completely illogical situation in the economy, which is called overcapitalisation. Overcapitalisation means using the most expensive source of money. It is perfectly natural that RMK's balance sheet will be changed in favour of foreign capital. But what are these exact legal nuances? I may not necessarily be precise here, but it's my knowledge that RMK has credit limits, he doesn't get a loan from the market. There's no mention of trickery here, it's an economic choice. Capital is also expensive for the state compared to loan capital. That is why this decision will be made. With the competitiveness of forestry, I'm sorry, there's no connection here. Our forestry remains very competitive and RMK's capital structure does not affect the state of any tree or forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U215	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The focus of my question is PRIA, but I will ask you more broadly. The financial year currently under discussion is the year of the so-called contraction of the financial period, as well as the preparatory year for the future financial period of the European Union. During this preparatory work, our implementing units will have to do a lot of preparatory work, create new IT solutions and new layers of maps. Can you confirm that, in a situation where the budget resources of the implementing entities, in particular the PRIA, do not increase, it is ensured that the current financial period will normally be completed and that all necessary work has been completed before the future budgetary period?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U217	Thank you. I think so. This was also an issue in the budget negotiations, this item of expenditure ran through, and we will take this into account. I am not talking about the state budget line now, I cannot look it up now in other places than memory, but I think it was also on the list of priorities presented by the Minister of Finance. Yes, according to my knowledge, this problem is financially covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U218	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U219	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Having seen a few economic textbooks close by, I dare to continue with my colleague's question in the context of Eesti Energia's money placement. The management of Eesti Energia, which has studied economics and finance on the basis of experience, has assessed that the construction of a new energy block is not economically sensible for Eesti Energia. However, do you consider it reasonable for the state that Eesti Energia will be capitalised from the 2013 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U220	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, this draft does not contain an overview of the planned investments. Only the main objects of the RKAS have been identified. Why is there no more detailed dissertation, renovation and construction of what new objects are planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U221	It would be nice if you could cancel those personal assessments. It really bothers me that in the meantime, if you're gonna tell me I need some help with my answer or something. I'm sure you'll admit in your heart that it's okay, she can handle the answer. The thing about sincerity is, since I've always been sincere and I've been sincere from the beginning, it sounded more like an accusation that I've become syrupy and somehow started liking you. No, that's not what I'm going to do. Be nice, old friend! But with the pension, you know very accurately that pensions cannot fall in times of crisis. We had to freeze them. There is a price to pay for this freezing and not falling, which must be divided into years according to the scheme you have offered in your own time. I would like to see a retirement rise, not as if it were the mountains of America, but as if it were stable and visible. 5% is as close as possible. It is important that pensions should not be frozen again in the future. There will be no danger in the near future. At the same time, the pension fund still gives us a minus 2% of GDP. There's nothing easy about this pension rise on the budget. We both know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U222	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U223	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have talked here about need-based child support. If you look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft National Family Benefits Act, you can see that a family of four is entitled to an increase of EUR 9 per child per month if the family's net income is less than EUR 588. How do you know that the needs of the family are exactly the kind that this EUR 9 helps them out of poverty? Or have you done some research that has shown that it is these EUR 9 per child that will help this family to make a better living? What would you buy for a child for EUR 9?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U224	Thank you. My question is: what do you think are the needs of the family? If I listen to your speeches, as much as I have to listen to them, I will always have a question as to how you imagine the Estonian state. You define that anyone who has a wish has an objective need, and it needs to be paid for. You have spoken rather unworthy about child benefits, that children are equal, that everyone needs a single amount of cash, and that necessity is something wrong. I say that necessity is a very welcome element that has been introduced here. At the same time, the fact that nothing is taken away from anyone, including the children of members of the Riigikogu, means that necessity can only be applied in part. The wallet is limited, but the cost of this step to the budget is still very considerable. EUR 5 million had to be brought into the budget outside all budgetary strategies, coalition agreements and longer-term plans. In spite of all this long history, when there was always a struggle to raise the support of all children, but in the end, no one was raised. This is not the way to solve the problem, because the needs are different and the money distributed on a non-needs basis is very expensive. This is a step in the right direction; it corresponds to the budgetary possibilities. These amounts, as I know, will be increased by 2015. We certainly do not pursue the goal that the needs of the family are something that must be fully covered in cash. The needs of families need not be fully covered. In fact, families are forced to support their own country in order to get back benefits, including support for the weakest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U225	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! About a month and a half ago, the government, when reacting to the opposition's plan to raise environmental charges, said sufficiently laconically that there was no intention to increase environmental charges, such as oil shale's resource fee. But a month ago, the government, together with the budget, dealt with this issue and presented a draft to increase environmental charges. Such enlightenment between a few weeks is interesting, but certainly also welcome. I think the increase in environmental charges has been argued. The fact that this plan came so suddenly allowed the government, for example, not to raise the oil shale resource fee from 1 January but only from 1 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U227	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U228	Unfortunately, some of the money is missing. But don't you think, given the current profitability of the oil shale oil industry, that oil shale could still be subject to much more resource taxation than it is today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U229	Thank you. I don't quite agree with this time estimate. I don't agree with that at all. You said it happened in a couple of weeks. We exchanged information with the Minister of the Environment but already in the summer. This plan was also included in the budget negotiations; it was developed in the government office in preparation of the budget. So two weeks cannot in any way be the time for the right position to change. I don't think anyone said it wasn't planned a month ago. Maybe the wording was a little different. But I do agree with the fundamental question that the responsibility of the oil shale economy should be to share the benefits more with society. The oil shale industry and, in particular, the oil shale industry, are far from covering the losses associated with their activities. Of course, these taxes would not reverse the state of nature, but sharing their benefits with society could be a little clearer. But you were talking about oil shale. One reason why we were more modest here was that it still affects the price of electricity, not directly, but indirectly. While this relationship is not direct in the free market, the taxation of oil shale still needs to be cautious. All the more reason we don't know the quota price. We do not know what the competitiveness of electro-energy will be in the near future. We have been debating in the government where this right place of taxation is, whether oil or oil shale should be taxed. That's a question in itself. A more neutral approach would be to tax oil shale as a resource. Once again, as I said, it has its impact on electrical energy and its competitiveness. I guess there is not yet a final decision here, on which we could say that it is only right and that it will not be possible to reconsider in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U230	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U231	Thank you. Without a doubt, he will. I consider this argument to be deeply unfair, as is simply the case with funding and not the political choices being taken into account. That is a very unfair criticism. The problem is that there is a greater kind of confusion in the development plans themselves and in this system. The need for these schemes has been unevenly justified. These schemes overlap. We are reforming this area. But the Minister in any field is very clearly guided in his preferences by development plans, which does not mean that this is done literally. These actions resulting from the development plans will, of course, be financed gradually as far as possible. The question was very wide. My answer is still in the affirmative rather than in the negative, although sometimes the opposite is said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U232	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U233	Thank you. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a cost line of EUR 900000 for the development of democracy. Since I believe that the issue of world-view foundations has been taken off the agenda and I have not seen any progress on this issue, I wonder if there is a new approach to this spending line.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U234	Thank you. I guess there's been some thoughts around it. This was an initiative from the Riigikogu. But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs offers a wide range of development aid, including more intellectual forms. I do not rule out that this amount can be used properly in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget. They have reached 0.14% in the amount of development aid. There is now a great deal of talk about Estonian political history over a period of time. I can say that political parties based on the world view have received a great deal of support from this type of sources in other countries, and thanks to this, the Estonian state is still better off uphill than it would have been without it. This dilettante government, as Mart Laari's government in the early 1990s has been called affectionately, became still an enormously good know-how. Since all this came on an empty page and was used by such alert brains, the Estonian state is still much better than it would have been without it. I do not rule out that we could think the same way about this sum, but there are other ideas. We will certainly appeal to the political groups and discuss what would be a noble opportunity here. I do not like these thousands of euros scattered across my constituency, systemless, controversial and often bad-scented. I think we will try to manage this process in a human way this year, including making a decision about the amount, of course, all together and finally at the choice of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U235	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Government experience with Riigi Kinnisvara AS is long-term. In recent years, more and more cultural and educational objects have started to go directly to the management of the RKAS after repair or construction. As Minister of Finance, are you satisfied with the methodology used by the RAAS to account for its administrative costs? They will remain budgeted in specific areas, such as education, culture or any other area. Is cooperation with the IKAS, so that administrative costs are known in advance and do not rise too hard, i.e. they are also budget-planned, now well developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U237	Thank you. I'm happy with the activities of the RKAS, and I think it's transparent. I haven't had a sniff in there. We launched a real estate reform a few years ago, and the RKAS was founded earlier. This is a move towards market-based real estate management and real costs are reflected in disbursements. It must not be the case that investment is fought one by one, while existing assets are often not necessary and the necessary assets are covered by an economically incomplete payment, depreciation is not taken into account, of course no real use of the surface. Our direction is this: less surface area, less assets, economic and market-based accounting, and covering it from the state budget. We are not going to automatically pay off every amount we ask, but we are going to autopsy and see exactly what service the RAAS will provide to a specific institution, what the benefits of the RKAS are. There must also be a certain level of profitability from there, which is necessary for each project, so that the balance sheet of the RKAS is sustainable and not fraudulent. I really consider the RKAS to be one very correct instrument, especially after the last change, which took off in 2009-2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U238	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U239	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I have discovered that the budgets of our special services, the Information Service and the Defence Police will be considerably reduced. The Information Office's budget is reduced by 10%, with the Defence Police down by 14%. The amounts are considerable, with the defence police close to EUR 3 million. I know very well that most of this area is covered by the veil of state secrecy, but I am still asking: can you, as Minister of Finance, confirm that this is not a reduction in labour costs and the number of people in these agencies? These authorities report in their yearbooks that the security situation in Estonia has not improved, but vice versa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U240	Thank you. I can confirm that. I can also assure you that I cannot comment on my assurance because of the mystery. These institutions have been given special attention to funding. That's right. You can't talk about everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U241	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U242	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The question is about the result of the sickness fund's undistributed income. Why shouldn't it be introduced? The undivided result is clearly intended to provide health services, not to keep it in the bank, so that the bank earns percentages on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U243	The way it's done is that the central government doesn't go to the credit market. The disbursements of EFSF to debtors increase Estonia's statistical debt burden without debt. But there are also foundations and municipalities that still develop loan activities to some extent. So the government does not intend to increase the public debt burden, which is mainly increased by the countries due to the statistical guarantees of the EFSF or, rightly, to their disbursements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U244	Increased well-being. If I can say three words, the average welfare increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U245	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U246	Thank you. The draft budget envisages a rather significant increase in liabilities of €190 million. The extent to which such debt obligations are to be met remains unclear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-23_U247	Thank you. Since the plenary session of the Riigikogu did not agree to extend the time of the sitting and the procedure for replying as such has ended, one question will delay us to the next day as well as the rest of the debate on this item and all the other points that were planned for today, but which we did not have time to deal with. Thank you very much, Minister Jürgen Ligi, for holding up here for several hours! Thank you very much, colleagues. We will continue to work tomorrow on the points on today's agenda. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
