ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft Act on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 20 members of the Central Party Group, I will refer the inquiry to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The subject is access to health care. It is no secret that medical care has become increasingly available in Estonia, especially for the poorer part of the population, and in addition, we have lost very many of the unemployed. The Estonian Medical Association and the Estonian Health Care Professionals' Association sent the Government of the Republic and the Health Insurance Fund a joint letter to the Council with the proposal to make medical care more accessible. The letter stated that funding for medical care did not match the volume of treatment and that the quality of treatment could only be maintained due to the overload of doctors. Excessively long waiting lists are caused both by the lack of money and the lack of employees. Recently, there was an article in Postimees about doctors leaving the Tartu University Hospital on a massive basis. Traumatology and orthopedic clinics have left several medical staff; some have gone on long unpaid leave. Four doctors have left the radiology clinic; because of the absence of a watch doctor, residences are applied, although they should not be used according to law. Among the leavers, the main issue alongside pay is a major overload and that is why we are going to Finland. On this basis, several questions are right for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U5	On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides to grant it to the procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with that law, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Here's the news. First, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has communicated Estonia's views on the draft regulations of the European Parliament and the Council on 12 January, which establish the legal programme and the Rights and Citizenship Programme for the period from 2014 to 2020 and the European Union Affairs Commission and has appointed the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft regulations of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 26 January at 4 p.m. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded Estonia's views on the European Commission's initiatives on amendments to the legislation on credit rating agencies, on the European Union's affairs committee, on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the initiatives of the European Commission to give an opinion on the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 19 January 2010 at 6 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded Estonia's views on the European Union's Internal Security Funds package to the European Union Affairs Committee on 13 January and has appointed the Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the European Union Internal Security Funds package. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Finally, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has communicated Estonia's views on the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the monitoring and reporting mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions and on the provision of other important European Union and national information on climate change, on the European Union Affairs Commission, and has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 26 January at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks, and I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U6	Let's start by answering questions on Monday's agenda. The first question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Valeri Korb and Viktor Vassilyev on 24 November 2011 regarding the spread of drug addiction in Estonia (No 74). I would like to ask my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U7	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The topic is the spread of drug addiction in Estonia. If we base our annual report on drug monitoring in Europe, it will show that we are the first in Europe, in a competitively bad way, in terms of both drug deaths and the number of people infected with HIV through drug addiction. The number of drug deaths per million inhabitants is 146, with which we exceed the European Union average nearly seven times and the neighbour Latvia also repeats. We have significantly increased the number of young drug users in schools. If we look at those who have tried drugs, that figure has more than doubled in ten years. Very many young people consider drugs to be completely normal, saying that they certainly think that drugs are better than alcohol. In addition to drug deaths, Estonia remains the first in terms of people infected with HIV. In Estonia, as a result of the use of drugs per million inhabitants, there are about half the HIV infected population in all countries that follow the ranking. We have a place of first place, powerfully and powerfully. In this regard, we have a number of questions which, Minister, I think, will read out himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U8	Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please keep it down, there is a very loud noise in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U9	Hello! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to respond to the questioning of six members of the Riigikogu regarding drug addiction. The first question concerns the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs on drug prevention. Let it be said at the outset that, at the beginning of the year, more specifically last week, we met with the Minister of the Interior and discussed drug prevention not only in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also in a bit wider. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu agree with me that the best drug prevention could be if drugs were not available. If they were not on the market, it would therefore not be necessary to put so many instruments into combating the consequences. However, the contribution of the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries involved in drug prevention in Estonia cannot be separated. In order to prevent drug use, it is necessary to approach the problem from both a demand-side and a supply-side perspective. We all know that drug addiction is a complex problem, with the causes of social exclusion, partly poverty, a dysfunctional family model, peer influence and inappropriate standards of behaviour created within groups. And as I said in the introduction, one important factor is availability. The national strategy for drug prevention and its action plan provide for a number of measures to reduce drug addiction in Estonia. We will deal with harm reduction, substitution treatment, initial prevention and, in cooperation with other institutions, also with supply reduction. The national strategy for drug prevention has also been complemented by an annual European drug monitoring report and attention has been paid to the following activities: I'd like to number them to make the picture clearer. Firstly, in order to improve prevention at national and local level, the Institute for Health Development provides training for youth professionals, the provision of drug information at events and the financing of projects launched through youth portals and the production of information material for young people. Second, treatment and rehabilitation. There is currently an improvement in legislation and codes of conduct in the field. Under the leadership of the Ministry, a legislative amendment has been prepared to comply with the regulation on aid to persons dependent on alcohol, narcotics and psychotropic substances, as well as on other toxic drinking agents, when they are released from dependence. The draft provides a framework for the definition of aid for persons addicted to psychoactive substances. The draft establishes, inter alia, the basis, conditions and procedures for providing assistance against addiction to minors, including the application of anti-dependency rehabilitation as inescapable psychiatric assistance beyond the will of the minor, which entails a limitation of the minor's freedom and of other fundamental rights. Let it be said that this bill is scheduled to be discussed at a government meeting this Thursday. The volume of existing services and activities will also be increased, with a particular emphasis on children's addiction and rehabilitation and services aimed at women. To date, several aid programmes have been implemented in Estonia and the National Institute for Health Development finances the following services for addicts: syringe exchange, short-term withdrawal treatment, methadone replacement therapy, rehabilitation and counselling services for adults and minors, as well as for adolescents and parents. The third point is damage reduction. One of the priorities of the field in 2012 is to enhance the prevention of lethal overdoses on the basis of existing services, which includes the introduction of naloxone outside the ambulance service and, accordingly, the development of an action plan consisting of concrete steps. Four. The Estonian Drug Monitoring Centre monitors the drug situation in Estonia, including regular evaluation of the implementation of the national drug prevention strategy. The second question concerns what measures are planned to reduce the number of HIV infected. For HIV and AIDS, we have a separate strategy, as the respected heirs certainly know. One of the most important activities, given the situation in Estonia, is the provision of damage reduction services, i.e. primarily needle exchange and methadone replacement therapy. The key areas for combating and preventing the spread of HIV infection are work with injecting drug users and their sexual partners, vulnerable young people and HIV-infected people. We can continue to say that injecting drug users are at risk in Estonia, but there is still some stabilisation and a reduction in their number. In order to achieve further decline and prevent further outbreaks, it is important to increase the volume of damage reduction services. Particular attention should be paid to the sexual partners of injecting drug users through whom the infection may spread sexually to the general population. There is certainly a need to continue to raise awareness so that people can recognise and prevent risk behaviour. It also plays an important role in stopping the spread of HIV, so that as many infected persons as possible can be tracked down and directed to the healthcare system as soon as possible. Studies have shown that a person who is aware of the infection behaves less at risk. The coordination of the Ministry has led to the development of guidelines for testing HIV infection and the referral of HIV positive persons to treatment, in cooperation with top specialists in the field, aimed at ensuring the early detection of HIV infection. Early detection of HIV infection allows monitoring of the patient's health and the timely initiation of antiretroviral therapy. In 2012, a new action plan will be completed for the years 2013 to 2015, the development of which we have involved professionals who are active in the field. The third question concerns the same naloxone, which was mentioned in the first answer. Let it be made clear that the prevention of overdose is not a stand-alone service and it is appropriate to develop it on the basis of an already operational harm reduction service. As I said in answering the first question, let's start this year's naloxone program and see how it goes. If the start and implementation of the programme are successful, we will review how the service management guide should be specified if necessary. We have planned the Naloxone Testing Institute for Health Development in this year's action plan and we hope that it will succeed. Question 4: '2009. In 2008, the money was considerably reduced to preventative work among people who did not yet have drug problems. To what extent do you consider such a decision justified in the light of the high number of young users? ' We recall that the 2009-2010 years were very difficult times, and the narrow budgetary conditions considered very carefully which budget cuts could have the lowest impact. The financing of services and activities where temporary reductions have the least negative impact was reduced, and in particular related to outreach activities. It is worth recalling here that on 14 January 2010, the Government of the Republic approved the updated national curriculum for comprehensive school and upper secondary school. In the new national curriculum, prevention information is included in the human education syllabus, which takes into account the modern trends in prevention of risk behaviour, which have been addressed in all three levels of school, 2. to class. The final deadline for the implementation of the curriculum is set in this plan for 2013/2014. the academic year. We hope that this will play a very important role in improving the situation. The fifth issue is the sustainability of the ESF funds. The heirs will certainly know that funding from the European Social Fund will continue after the end of the current programming period. According to the information currently available to us, there is even a plan to increase the volume of European Social Fund funds. If the Commission's final proposal is known, cross-cutting divisions can also be achieved, but we certainly consider it necessary to continue successful programmes with the support of the European Social Fund. The sixth question is that the national strategy for drug prevention is planned until the end of this year. The question is whether we have analysed the strategy's objectives and when a new strategy will start to be drawn up. The work is on, as I have already answered earlier questions. In October last year, we started an evaluation. The evaluation is currently underway. The new action plan, which I mentioned, is planned for 2013/2016. Our general principle is that we are moving into a coherent framework with all the specific programmes, both heart strategy, drug addiction activities and other action plans, which is the population health agenda until 2020. The drug field must now be a separate working group with the task of setting out the action plan for each of the following years. This action plan goes through the steering committee of the population health development plan, where members of the Riigikogu are known to be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U10	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. You have many questions. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U11	Thank you. Dear Minister, You speak relatively calmly on these matters, but the situation is still more than anxious. If we see that more drugs are being injected in Estonia than in any other European country, we will also look at the deaths that have been caused by all of this and those who are infected with HIV (372 last year and 177 of them as a result of drug use), then I think that this is a subject where something should be done very, very well. Today, we have been mentioned here in Europe with a bad word, and R&D&I (Health Development Institute) also asks how it is possible that prevention funds have been reduced in this way. These are the consequences today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U12	Thank you for your question. I agree with you, in this sense, one hundred percent that if we look at accident deaths and collect the preliminary figures for 2011, then the number of road deaths is somewhere around 100, the number of drowning deaths and fire deaths is 70, and the number of drug-related deaths may have been around 140. I don't have those numbers at hand at the moment, but in this order, it was a large number. That's why we met with the Home Secretary last week. As I said, and as you say, there are many injectors, and one very important factor here is that drugs or drugs do not move in the market. The Minister of the Interior and I clearly agreed on further action. This is the place of the question, not only the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Social Affairs, but certainly the Minister for Justice, which is also concerned with penal policy, as is the Minister for Education, which is concerned with prevention and administration in schools. The question now is whether we decide to focus this on the real government committee or whether we will remain on the expert level. These are the two possible models that we will discuss further. And we agreed to move on with it very quickly. I agree with you a hundred percent that the question is serious. But it is also very important to me that we really be able to reduce the drug circulating in the market, including the new stunning substances that are constantly entering the market. From this point of view, we know that we have a similar agreement with several powers. If anything is detected on the market and confirmed by forensic experts, it is our task to add it to the list of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances as soon as possible so that it can be punished. There are some nuances with which we must probably come to the Riigikogu Hall, and then I ask the Riigikogu to discuss it seriously. That is, for example, that the technological processes of certain factories use substances or, let's say, stunning substances, such as paint mixing. The law is somewhat incomplete in some respects and does not allow the Minister to separate what is known as industrial consumption and what is intended to be used for recreational purposes. We need to separate them clearly so that the police can, figuratively speaking, take this jar away from a person walking on the street with a stick. However, if this substance is used for industrial purposes, it should not necessarily be limited when technologically necessary. I agree with you that the situation is very serious, and the situation is also being dealt with seriously. However, if we look a little wider, if we really take all the deaths, then in Estonia the biggest cause of death continues to be cardiovascular disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U13	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U14	Thank you. This explanation does not make the heart much calmer if we consider that, according to statistics, one in four school students has at least tried drugs. It seems that these programmes will not be so successful that they can continue in the same way. I mean, it's new programs. That is why I ask you: does the Minister know whether Estonia has studied the question of why we have so many drug addicts? What I mean is why children and young people consume so much of them. In the world, this is usually explained for the same reason: young people lack the purpose of life and the meaning of life. Does this also apply to young people in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U15	Thank you for your question. Estonia's youth is certainly not significantly different from other young people in the world. As I said, the new national curriculum has just been approved, which is why there are no real results on the curriculum side. The final implementation of the curriculum is 2013/2014. in the academic year. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Social Affairs has reached an agreement with the Ministry of Education and Research and that drug prevention activities have been agreed on 2. The curriculum has been put in place until class. You're asking what's been studied. The second question of the inquiry concerned the spread of HIV and AIDS, and here it can be said that Estonia is undoubtedly one of the most testing countries in the European Union, both for rapid tests and for laboratory tests. We're gonna test a lot, and we're gonna get a lot of infected people. If we take the wider picture, it is very good that we have this monitoring system and that we have such a wide network, so we can test them. That's the first assumption. But as far as drug addiction is concerned, I'm saying it's a very complex question. This is not only a question for students, but also an issue for adults and a question for consumption, precisely how drugs and pleasures spread on the Estonian market. The simplest prevention would be, if there weren't, then there wouldn't be a problem. But there are, and this offer has increased. In this sense, we are not satisfied ourselves either, because if we look at the objectives set out in the population health development plan, it is relatively well-controlled, and these indicators have also gone down. If we look at drug-related crime and drug use, these figures have not gone down so well. Consequently, there is a great deal of goods on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U16	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! According to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, only private limited liability companies, public limited liability companies and foundations can provide medical assistance to different groups of residents. At the same time, non-profit organisations are mostly active in providing treatment and support to injecting drug users and HIV-positive people. In most of them, experienced and qualified professionals are employed by social workers, psychologists, nurses, but, according to current procedures, they cannot perform their tasks in full, because even the basic rapid HIV testing is a licensed activity and the licence is granted to a private limited company, a public limited company and a foundation. For example, nurses working in non-profit organisations who in fact perform their direct duties are not included in the qualifying status of a non-profit organisation. In this regard, I also have a question, Mr Minister. Perhaps it is time to make certain changes to the law in this regard, all the more so since, in most countries of the European Union, the approach to this problem is much easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U18	Thank you for your question. If we come specifically to rapid testing, a number of NGOs have also carried out rapid testing in cooperation with health professionals. It is clear that when we talk about blood donation or when it is necessary to provide health care, it can be done by licensed persons. NGOs can cooperate and have done so in several places. If you have followed the media, you will know that several rapid testing campaigns were carried out last summer in Ida-Virumaa, where several doubts were also identified. The rapid test is the one that must always be followed by a laboratory test, we cannot limit ourselves to a rapid test. The beam test is because we're getting the primary result, but the confidence needs to be obtained in the lab. The subject, which must be taken into account in this respect and which relates to NGOs, is a topic of rehabilitation. In Estonia, the word'rehabilitation' means two things, one is social rehabilitation and the other is health or medical rehabilitation, often referred to as rehabilitation. This year or the end of last year, we prepared new requirements in cooperation with the Institute for Health Development. The Institute for Health Development proposed quality improvement criteria and we increased quality requirements, which are particularly relevant to social rehabilitation. The NGOs have no obstacle to participating in this. NPOs must meet broadly few conditions. One is that the accommodation where they provide this service must be of high quality. Secondly, the food offered must be of high quality. Thirdly, there must be supervision, at least two persons. These are broadly general requirements imposed on rehabilitation service providers. As far as testing is concerned, for each non-profit organisation, of course all health care providers who can help or are able to cooperate here will certainly do so. And when we look at last year's practice, it's all worked very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U19	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your thorough answers. However, I wanted to clarify one thing. When you spoke about preventing the spread of HIV, you said that it was very important to work with injecting drug users and their sexual partners. I understand that the list of drug addicts, though perhaps not complete, is made by the police. But what is the basis for putting together and drawing up lists of sexual partners of drug addicts, unless they have sex with their husbands, but are also very prone to casual sex?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U21	Thank you for your question. No one will ever keep any specific lists. What is being done is that when rehabilitation or methadone replacement therapy is provided, it is specifically communicated with the recipient of the substitution treatment. The substitution recipient is consulted on the spot and often asked to come back with his partner so that they can be consulted. These are actions, but ultimately this will naturally remain a matter of responsibility for the injecting drug user himself. Nobody's gonna make any national lists or any database on who's a partner. We can work with the same people who are sick, who are infected, and this work is being done quite successfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U22	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm sure you and I have been to countries where when you turn on TV, you suddenly realize that everything is white and hairy, and if you're interested in it, you'll be informed that there's violence on public television and all kinds of movies and programmes that promote drug use or alcoholism are banned. Cable TV, which is relatively closed, can get it all out, but at least for children, it's a pretty closed zone. Do you not think that it would be worth taking some steps to put an end to this propaganda of violence, drugs and crime in these series, which is quite early available to all, including children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U24	Thank you. It's an extremely complicated subject. I wouldn't want to comment on this at all for a very long time. This topic is similar to whether and how much should be displayed in the series, in movies, alcohol consumption, violence, drugs and anything that is illegal. It still happens, and it happens in different ways. One is when we talk about a documentary approach, and the other is when we talk about an artistic or film approach, which is quite different topics. I believe that, above all, it is the people who are responsible for what is being bought in, how is being bought in and what time is being displayed, the programme buyers. If you go to regulate it, it's a very difficult question. Where's the border? If there is a long, multiplicity series and there is violence or drug use in one part of the series, should the whole series not be shown? I'd like to leave this debate to the Committee on Culture. As far as alcohol advertising is concerned, we are also holding this debate in Parliament. Let's leave this debate to the committees. I'm saying it's not as simple as taking and banning one movie or one show, it's definitely a much more complex subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U25	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You said in your reply that one of the main problems was the availability of drugs. That doesn't seem very convincing to me. I do not believe that in Latvia or, for example, in the Netherlands, where there is much legalisation, this availability is less accessible. The main problem, in my opinion, is still in school and in the field of the Ministry of Education. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, these young people should be offered leisure activities, etc., I think the effect would then be greater. We are actually fighting the consequences now, which perhaps is not so much a matter for the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think something should be done in schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U27	Thanks for the line. I agree with you 100% on this. But why I said that one of the main problems is availability is that I still think that: if there were no one on the market, then there would be no problem either in schools or in the streets. If they are already available, then, of course, from there, this is a very broad issue of awareness among children and adults. The first step was taken almost two years ago, i.e. by the ministry, we entered drug education in the national curriculum within the framework of human education. This is the first very big step. The next step, which has already started piece by piece, is to train teachers and beyond to complete the curriculum. Perhaps this knowledge would begin to reach young people from Earth to Earth. Of course, this is not just a matter of access to the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Social Affairs is already responsible when something has happened, perhaps we are responsible for the treatment and we have some preventive measures in our hands. But prevention on a daily basis can, of course, be done by schools. That's why the Ministry of Justice is dealing with penal policy, and the Ministry of Education and Research is working on the learning side. I believe that already in the first half of this year we are moving significantly forward here, moving further on from the steps that have already been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U28	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, For years, the state and foundations have been engaged in anti-drug activity. There have been a number of programmes, plans, projects and quite a lot of resources, but the situation is as it is. I have a very simple question, maybe I repeat it already, but still: can you tell us what we did in the wrong way or in little or in the wrong direction over the years? What exactly do we have to do with one, the other, the third, so that the result is still positive, but not that after a while we will be here again with the same question and the situation is worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U30	Thank you. A lot of things. If you start over from somewhere else, there could, of course, be more police resources to collect drugs from the market or even to make it to the market. However, it is clear that in the case of a free border within the European Union or within the Schengen area, controls at certain borders have become weaker. So, one thing is the question of availability. The other half is what we do with teaching. Like I said, at least we've got a plan to do. The third issue is sexual health, sexual education in general, i.e. how a person behaves. Under the influence of a narcotic substance, human behavior is certainly different. From there on, the same question of HIV and AIDS, sexual health. Many NGOs contribute a great deal, including foreign resources, in cooperation with the US Department of Defence, in the field of sexual education, conscripts are trained in Estonian defence forces. In schools, education can certainly be improved. More action needs to be taken. The government coalition has suggested there's gonna be a circle of interest money. That is precisely what Mr Tamm referred to, that there would be something for young people not to be on the street. Mr. Lenk said the same thing. After that, there will be action. If these first stages were not so successful, or despite the first steps, a person has reached drug addiction, then he or she will be treated and rehabilitated. This service can, of course, be offered more. We will try new methods, for example, with the same naloxone that concerns methadone replacement therapy. It's been increasing all along. As regards substitution therapy or alternative treatments, these must also be tried and tried. Near the Laitse is the village of Hope. Some drug addicts are okay with it, some are not okay with it because it is on a voluntary basis and it is more related to the spiritual side. Alternative methods should be used. There is a great deal of work that can be done at different levels. As in other areas, I am talking not only about drugs but also about the education of young people as a whole. These are the activities, but this list could still be continued and continued. There is certainly no final knowledge, the world is evolving all the time. Tomorrow I will have a meeting with an indisputable specialist in this field, Professor David Parker, from South Carolina University. He has been assisting Estonia for many and many years. That's where we get new information all the time. So let's look and work to make things better. But it's a very, very big job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U31	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U32	Thank you. Dear Minister, There is an increasing question in this Chamber about why young people are still taking drugs. As colleagues Tarmo Tamm and Heimar Lenk said, there is no activity for young people other than schoolwork, etc. Secondly, if the country is poor, if there are very strong social problems, if there is unemployment, if there is poverty, then, of course, this also involves young people taking drugs. But I am surprised that the state itself, as it were, is encouraging this situation. In 2009, when the budget was cut, a lot of money was taken away from local authorities, and local authorities were obliged to deal with young people, youth work and sport. Do you not think that we should start there and return this money to local governments so that young people can exercise, engage in activities, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U33	Thank you. Let us not open the tax debate again. Of course, municipalities have different options and I have said before from this remote control that the contribution of the municipality to social protection, to recreational activities is very different. But our wallet's tight, too. When the state budget decreased and we had to reduce the resources allocated to the Institute for Health Development, it was very difficult to make a choice that could not be chosen. We have chosen this route of reducing services aimed at communication, advertising campaigns and public information at this difficult time, and we will continue, above all, with the activities that are essential, i.e. methadone replacement therapy, syringe exchange. That's what we can do. As far as education is concerned, education is concerned, municipalities have to make choices here. I understand from the municipalities that when the snow is on its way, it needs to be pushed away and, of course, less money to contribute to recreational activities. But I hope the situation improves both in the country and in the municipalities. Last year was much better than 2010 and we hope that this year will also be a good one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U34	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I am looking at the recent crime report and it shows that low levels of illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances have decreased three times in three years. This is actually what the police only detect through their actions, not through someone coming to the police to write a statement. Here's the question: as Minister of Social Affairs, have you not come up with the question that you are fighting drug addiction, but the Ministry of the Interior, who should also fight it, has significantly reduced its resources there? The three-fold decline in the three-year period is a very serious indicator from It doesn't match the statistics I can see on the Ministry of Social Affairs website about the total number of drug users.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U36	Thank you for your question. That's a very good point. Of course, each agency shares its own resources according to priorities. As far as police and border guard resources and, consequently, penal policy are concerned, it is quite a long tradition that the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice agree on priorities in the fight against crime. And when last week the Minister of the Interior and I were talking about the crime of drug addiction and drug addiction, there was one very serious question about the possibilities offered by the Ministry of the Interior. As I have already said in answering the question of inquiry, we are moving forward quickly with this issue, including in the direction of penal policy and education. As in the Committee on Traffic, for example, where the Ministry of Social Affairs is represented and which is being transported by MKM, an overview of all traffic will be provided, so as to say in the case of drug addiction, that such a locomotive could be the Ministry of the Interior, that the Ministry of the Interior will take on this fight and change the market situation, and we will be specifically responsible for the treatment and rehabilitation side. This certainly raises questions, and I believe that you could ask the Minister for the Interior whether the fact that there has been a statistically reduced amount of resources means that there is less resources, or whether it means that priorities are elsewhere, which is actually the same, or whether it means that there really is a reduction in the availability of drugs on the streets, which I do not believe very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U37	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Growing up in poverty is a very ungrateful job, perhaps impossible. Not even the Soviet penal system has succeeded, totalitarian, as it was. But the children must be saved! I see here the problem that today's schoolchildren, young people, do not have a clear moral concept in their lives. It is often lacking in adult people, but it is young people who must be saved. I have this question: why has the Government of the Republic not taken up a comprehensive programme aimed at young people precisely to develop a moral concept acceptable to all of them that will guide them through life?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U39	Thank you, Mr Vasilyev. First, however, I would advise you to read the national curriculum. If you can't read everything, I understand that the national curriculum is a very voluminous document, then go ahead with the human studies program. The human teaching syllabus also describes what we believe young people should start talking about drugs from the second class, i.e. 8 to 9 years of age. Municipalities have also carried out various projects. I listened with great interest myself when my child's school presented at the parents' general meeting the effects of drugs, the effects of drugs and their use. I believe that such activities should certainly continue in order not only to educate children but also to educate parents. I agree with you that it is very difficult to rearrange a parent. However, it is possible to provide parents with information, tips, guidelines that go along with today's busy times: what are the patterns of consumption, what are the active ingredients on the market, what are the drinks that are offered, which contain the pleasures, what are the packagings? So that if there is a package, a drink jar, or something at home that may contain a substance of pleasure, the parent would recognize it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U40	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U41	Thank you, Minister. Has there been, or is there some kind of drugs, drugs to control the interest in drugs? For example, people are already relatively effective with regard to smoke, there are all kinds of patches, etc. Is there any news in that direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U42	Thank you. When I answered the question, I mentioned the naloxone. But if anyone knew that kind of medicine before this news gets out in the open, I think it would be a very rich person. The pharmaceutical industry is so jealously keeping its messages quiet. If that is the case, it will certainly receive a very high level of public attention. As we know, the pharmaceutical industry has been looking for a cure for HIV infection for a very, very long time. The first positive news has come that some progress has been made there, but the final breakthrough has not taken place in very long decades. In drug addiction, it is possible to either rehabilitate, wean a person, or, if it is very bad, treat him. I can't imagine this being the case. But as far as treatment goes, new drugs that help get out of addiction are definitely being searched. And we are also trying to test ourselves the new drugs that have come to the market to reduce the burden of ambulances and everything that comes with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U43	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Social Affairs, for answering your questions. I'm opening negotiations. I call my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U44	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To make sure how serious this problem is in Estonia, I would read these alarm figures again. More drugs are injected in Estonia than in any other European country. In the ranking of drug deaths, we are uncompetitively the first in Europe. We have 146 drug deaths per million inhabitants. The next country to us is Norway, where there are 81, i.e. already half of them. And if we want to compare ourselves with Latvia, for example, as we still do, then in Latvia this number is 12.2 (in Estonia it was 146), i.e. 11 times smaller. If you look at the number of HIV-infected drug users, this is the most competitively high in Estonia. For a million inhabitants, we have 63.4 people who have contracted HIV as a result of drug use. I would like to point out that the European average is 2.87. I mean, we have 22 times the figure in Estonia. These figures just don't fit in the head! Speaking of absolute figures, 372 people in Estonia were infected last year and 177 of them were infected as a result of drug use. According to the Institute for Health Development, over 50%, or more than half of injecting drug users, are infected with HIV. It is also pointed out in Europe that we have tried drugs considerably more students than in Europe in general. If ten years ago, we had about 15% of students, now 36%. So these numbers are going to be multiple again. But perhaps the most alarmful thing that we still stand out for is that if we use heroin mostly in Europe, fentanyl, or white Chinese, is preferred in Estonia, and even worse, trimethylfentanyl, or white Persian, which is hundreds of times stronger than heroin. Our drug deaths are mainly related to this substance and injecting amphetamine is a problem in Ida-Virumaa. Of course, we should significantly increase drug treatment, but as R&D&I has pointed out, even more important is primary prevention and funding. The huge cuts that have been made are now reflected in the 'effects'. At the time of the cut, the money was only put into medicine, but it certainly wasn't right. Of course, the most important thing is school-based prevention. They were talking about programs here. Teachers would certainly need supporting materials, there are very few of them, and the level of teachers varies so much that they are not able to teach. So co-operation with the Ministry of Education. What we've got is a limp registration system for infected people. We know that a message was sent from Estonia to Europe a few years ago, as if we had only 7% of those who were infected with HIV using drugs. We know that this number is tens of times higher. So doctors, too, should better record these data. The Minister mentioned today that we should work more together to work with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education and Research immediately, so I say that we have been working with the red lantern for ten years now, the problem is even older. It seems as if this problem has arisen today, but it is not so, it is just work done. Unfortunately, in our extremely right-wing country, it is still the old sentence that saving a drowner is just his own business. However, I think that in order to resolve this problem, a specific government committee should still be set up as a matter of urgency and that more action should be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U45	Thank you. I would now like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U46	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Since 1999, I have listened to debates on drug prevention in this Chamber quite a number of times. There is nothing to blame for the ministers who have participated in it, regardless of whether they were from the Social Democratic Party (Species), the Centre Party or the Reform Party. It's not the thing to leave someone's heart cold, everyone wants to beat it. But what do you do with it? It is said that children need to have additional leisure opportunities. In the last ten years, we have a third, or 74,000 fewer, of schoolchildren. At the same time, the possibilities for leisure have hardly diminished. In pure mechanical terms, this means that each child has one and a half times more of these opportunities. However, the number of drug addicts is increasing. A year ago, 11 years ago, my colleague Koit Pikaro and I made such an attempt to commit crimes involving the transport, sale and distribution of drugs, the first-class crime. If there was a higher penalty, some might wonder a little more about whether it would be worth doing or not. At the time, we were made clear that making it a first-order crime with longer periods of punishment is, in fact, no longer going to be the perfect way to combat drug trafficking, such as mimicking. Without it, there's no way we're gonna get along. Now we're in the same place I think we were 12 years ago, and the statistics are even worse than they were. At this point, I would like to offer the Government of the Republic an opportunity that will help to combat drug trafficking very effectively. In order to make a second-order crime a first-order crime while maintaining this possibility of imitation, a task should be assigned to a very strong state security structure, such as the Defence Police. I would like to remind you that, in April 2007, when the Defence Police were given the task of dealing with corruption in six Estonian cities, corruption was instantly found even where it did not exist. However, if we are talking about drugs, perhaps it would be better not to overdo it. I think that if the defense police were tasked with combating drugs, first of all, we would really get results, because there is no place he can't get into to look into the database or take out some papers. It's a very effective way. Secondly, we finally find out if he's capable of something in real work, so funny, of course. I see that I have delighted the Minister, I have delighted him a little with my proposal. But this is a completely serious proposal to the Government of the Republic: discuss the possibility of giving the Defence Police the power to fight drug crimes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U47	Thank you. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U48	Honourable Chairwoman! I thought I'd come over here for a second, because Stalnukhin was talking about his thoughts, and I had a few senses. I did not even imagine that the situation with drug addiction was so serious, even though I had the same articles cut out, which Marika quoted today. However, if we have used seven times as many drugs as we have in other Europe and we have many more drug deaths than the European average, then the question arises as to why this is still the case. Maybe I could start with what my colleague ended up with. Apparently, the police and the defense police have never received the right orders to prevent the import of drugs into the country. After all, we talk every day about how well the Estonian state is protected, how much resources are given, how well our border guards are, how well our customs are. You can't get off the plane anymore, you get all the perfumes and soaps taken away, but at the same time, it turns out that drugs are flowing in so freely that there's no problem at all. I had the sight of Prime Minister Ansip, who shows us here on Wednesdays and tells us he's a great country. We have no debts at all and we are commended in Europe, our budget is balanced, we are so strong economically, we have such high GDP. Let's start thinking about what the Prime Minister said. So, what are we working for? To get the lowest pay to get the worst pension to be the biggest drug addicts, to be the first to die in road accidents, etc.? Let us ask whether the Estonian state is on the right track at all? When we were talking here about setting up a government committee, I think that it is the national committee that should actually be convened quickly and a national programme to combat drug addiction should be set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U49	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U50	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Heimar Leng, Lauri Laas, Mailis Repsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Rainer Vakra and Viktor Vassilyev on 5 December last year. I would like to ask my colleague Priit Toobali of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U51	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! On 5 December, together with nine other members of the Central Party Group, I submitted an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. The inquiry concerns phosphorite studies. Viru Chemistry Group has informed the public that it wishes to explore the volume, availability, quality and environmental friendliness of phosphorite reserves. According to preliminary information, the company has indicated that the first sampling of the phosphorus field may take place in spring summer in Rägavere municipality in Lääne-Virumaa. In addition, in the future, Sõmeru and Vinni in Lääne-Virumaa and Sonda in Ida-Virumaa will be affected. Insufficient information and lack of information by the Ministry of the Environment have led to ignorance and fear of possible extraction in the inhabitants of Lääne-Virumaa. The project manager of the Viru Chemistry Group, Kalev Kallemets, has assured the local people that it is only research, not mining planning. At the same time, there is no information on the purposes for which studies are carried out. At the time the inquiry was submitted, the Ministry of the Environment had not disclosed whether the Viru Chemistry Group had applied for a study permit and we do not have any knowledge of it today. The real interest of Viru Chemistry Group and the involvement of the Ministry of the Environment in the above process remain unclear. The public has the impression that the company would have a more effective impact on environmental decisions than the Ministry of the Environment can. National and country-specific research should be dictated by the Ministry. This is what a private company is doing right now. A demonstration against research and mining took place in Lääne-Virumaa on 10 December. Various political parties, including the Greens and the Centre Party, have collected and continue to collect signatures against the exploration of phosphorite reserves and the extraction of phosphorite. Facebook has created a homepage for 'No phosphorus! '. In this context, we have six questions for the Minister for the Environment. We ask and investigate the granting of a study permit and, more generally, phosphorite than mineral resources that have been recognised as non-extraction. We are asking why there has not been cooperation with universities, but rather the choice of cooperation with private companies. We will examine the necessity of the study and ask the Minister how he has planned to reassure the people of Lääne-Viru County, explain and report on further activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U52	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Madam Minister for the Environment of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U53	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Since the questioner did not read all the questions accurately, in order to make the answers easier to understand, I will also read the questions you have asked again and then give them the answers. The first question of the heirs was this: 'The reserves of phosphorite deposits are included in passive mineral resources, but the Viru Chemistry Group has said that it wishes to apply for permission for research from the Ministry of the Environment. To what extent have you considered granting a possible study permit? ' I am not fully aware of whether you are referring to a conversation or exactly what you are referring to, quoting as the representatives of the Viru Chemistry Group, who, according to you, have said that they wish to apply for permission for research from the Ministry of the Environment. No such requests have been made, that is what I have done and have repeatedly confirmed to the public by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. Consequently, the granting of a study permit at the Ministry of the Environment has not been considered. I think it is necessary to emphasise once again, in addition to what has been discussed in previous briefings, for example, that any kind of mining and pre-mining research is a prerequisite that local people do not object to this activity, so that there is also the interest of local people in order for this activity to take place. Mining is inevitably an activity that affects the everyday life of people around them, and it is elementary that their interests are taken into account. If local people object to this action, if no agreement is reached with them, no authorisation will be given. The substantive obligation to express the position of local people is due to the law of the municipality or city. I will take this opportunity to say that, on the issue of phosphorite, the rural municipalities of Virumaa, the representatives of the rural municipalities have acted well in general. They have also asked the Ministry of the Environment to clarify whether such a request for a study at the level of speculation has been submitted to the Ministry. They have communicated the views of the people of their municipality quite early on. I think this behaviour has helped to eliminate fears and it has helped to create clarity. Such behaviour by local government leaders can be considered to be part of good practice. However, what has happened in another part of Estonia, Otepää, cannot be classified as good governance in another area, but also in mining. We're talking about opening a gravel career. My clear view is that the municipality must not play blind with its inhabitants. The municipality or city, whichever is legally a partner of the state for all mining matters. It is an extraordinary fool if this partner goes when the country asks him for a position, hide in the closet and tries to pretend in the closet that he can't hear or see or answer anything. If there is simply no reply to a request for coordination and reminders sent under the law within five months, it is, unfortunately, that kind of locker. Once again, I come to your question of how much the Ministry has considered granting a study permit. I reply that the granting of such a study permit at the Ministry of the Environment has not been considered. In the introduction, you also said once again that you are unaware that this application has been received by the Ministry. I repeat what has been said at the end of last year in this very Chamber that no application for a study permit has been submitted to the Ministry. The second question: 'As regards possible environmental risks in mining, phosphorus has been recognised as non-extractive mineral. How much do you plan to change it as a minister? " In short, I don't plan. Now I'm going to answer a little longer. In your question, you also highlighted the environmental risk. That's the thing about phosphoritis. Due to the environmental risks of mining, the stock of phosphorus is included as a passive stock in Estonia. This decision was made by the State years ago, it was made prudently and because mining would in particular involve a risk of serious damage to the environment of the surrounding population. We are talking about the risk of pollution of air, surface and groundwater. It is a danger of such weight that risking is not an option. So far, no one has proven that the extraction of phosphorus in Estonia would be possible without compromising or endangering the population's environment, without risking the environment. For these reasons, I repeat, the reserves of phosphorite in Estonia are passive, i.e. they are not included in mining. There is no plan to change this situation. The third question: 'Why does the Ministry of the Environment and universities not want to run phosphorite research, but let a private company do so? To what extent is such a study necessary? ' I must say that this question is, unfortunately, misleading information. No further studies in the phosphorite area shall be carried out. However, there are examples from the past of how environmental conditions in the region have been affected by research alone, such as the need to build new excavations. So it has to be said that research is not 100% risk-free either. However, Estonian phosphorus deposits have indeed been studied well in the past, in the meaning of geological research as laid down in Estonian law. As I said in reply to the previous question, it is precisely because of these studies that phosphorus has been included as a passive reserve which is not mined in Estonia due to the danger that mining may pose to the environment. Question 4: Is there not enough research into phosphorite mining in Estonia already? Please introduce them in an exhaustive list and will you agree to pass these studies on to the VKG company with a clause that the state does not need new studies? 'Geological studies of phosphorus have been carried out in all Estonian phosphorus deposits. Geological work has been carried out first to examine in more detail the known phosphorous deposits. In the course of these studies, most of all, there is talk about the studies of the last century, and the deposits that were previously unknown, such as the deposits of Narva, Tool and Rakvere, are among them. Rakvere Maardla is then probably the most detailed study of Estonian deposits. All these geological surveys and search reports must be said to be publicly available. They are available in the repository of manuscript works in the Estonian Geology Centre, the so-called Geology Foundation. Who wants to see the overview, there is the English-language monograph Geology and Mineral Recognitions of Estonia published by the Estonian Academy of Sciences. It also provides a very comprehensive overview of the main publications. I suggest you get to know it for anyone who has an interest in it. However, I do think that reading out all the studies on phosphorus in Parliament's chair may not be the most appropriate one. There are probably dozens of most important studies alone. Whoever really has a more detailed interest in it, as I said, will get a look at it from the geology fund. If Members have a special interest, I can also forward this list in writing, but I really do not think it is very practical to read them all. Question 5: 'Ignorance regarding the study and its subsequent activities has caused panic in the region and may also paralyse economic activity. How do you plan to reassure the local people of Lääne-Virumaa and provide explanatory information? ' We have contacted local associations to provide explanatory information. Representatives of villages have also been personally spoken. We've been seeing people on the scene, we've also met the parish leaders. Indeed, as a result of such panic incitement, it has been necessary to repeat repeatedly that the reserves of phosphorite are passive in Estonia, these decisions were made in 1991 and 1996, and consequently no mining activity is possible in the case of phosphorite. I would also advise you, if you meet a person or know someone who is susceptible to such panic, to call him to order and provide him with adequate information about the state of the phosphorus situation in Estonia. The last, sixth question: 'According to Kalev Kallemets, project manager at VKG, local residents will be kept informed about the future plans of the new Maritime Box Messages newspaper, this shows that interest in only research can be rapidly expanded. Will this newspaper be funded or co-financed by the Ministry of the Environment by sharing experts' assessments? ' I do not consider it quite appropriate for a member of the government to interpret or comment in any way in Parliament's chair on the words or plans of a project manager from a private company. But, of course, the Ministry of the Environment does not fund or co-finance a newspaper of a company, even if it bears such a poetry name as the Sea Box Messages. Thank you. I am happy to respond to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U54	Thank you very much. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U55	Thank you. Minister of the Environment! In your reply, you said that the people of Lääne-Virumaa do not have to worry, because the prerequisite for any mining is that local people do not object. However, last week the Otepää case came out. It said no to the gravel mine in 2008, but now it turns out that the mining permit has been granted. The Head of the Environmental Board Andres Onemar, who is a member of the Reform Party, has admitted that the Environmental Board has proposed to discuss the matter without a public hearing, where local people would have been able to participate. This decision was made in secret from local people. I am not going to ask whether the business company that wins has gained a more favourable attitude because the members of the Supervisory Board of Forest Healing OÜ donated EUR 42000 to the Reform Party. What I am asking is that, if this decision and this decision are contrary to good governance, will you turn it back?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U56	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U57	Thank you. All possibilities to reverse one decision or another must, of course, be analysed if this does not bring further claims on the State. I repeat, according to the law, the municipality government is obliged to be a representative of the local people, to find out what local people think, to represent it throughout this process. But if the municipality behaves quite ridiculously and tries to pretend within five months, I do not know for what reasons that it cannot hear or see or know what the opinion of the local people is, and does not represent this opinion, it is an exceptionally faceless practice. I don't even think it's necessary to find any excuse. I think it's kind of faceless, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U58	Thank you, Madam Minister, for pointing out this Otepää problem yourself in your performance. As an elected ambassador from Valgamaa, I can say that Otepää really ferments heavily. Not only is the Pühajärv School being shut down, but now the reform party municipal government has gone to the mineral resources. I have a specific question: as a minister, did you know that this will be done there and that mining will begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U59	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Surely you should remain precise when you ask the question. The head of the parish, the mayor, is not a member of the Reform Party. It is not appropriate to assign to the Reform Party the decisions or omissions of the rural municipality's parent. Be sure to be punctual! The Minister, of course, does not deal with the decision-making of specific issues in the Environment Board or in one area or another, as is certainly well known to you. Who, and for what reasons Otepää made or failed to make these decisions at the Municipality Government, cannot comment on this local government's activities as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U60	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. On the agenda, I read that the inquiry is about phosphorite research. Listening to questions and your answers, I kind of got the answer, but one question about phosphorite was still in the air. Maybe you can explain or answer. I don't understand why the Centre Party so terribly explores the reserves of phosphorite, and I don't know, maybe then it wants to mine phosphorus too, keeping the subject so-called up, constantly pouring oil into the fire, even if there is no reason. As a minister, do you have any idea what their cause or their need is?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U62	Thank you. I don't get it. But an inquiry into one issue, perhaps on the fifth question, was pointed out that someone had caused panic in the region. I must say that it is known to me that even after it has been officially confirmed several times that the reserves of phosphorite are passive, i.e. it cannot be mined, nor is it possible to issue a research permit without the local authority giving it a prior acceptance, a political youth organisation has unfortunately dealt with this so-called panic there. I did not ask the questioners here for nothing to ask that, if they know one of those parties or people who are not part of the party involved in creating such a panic, it would be appropriate to give them all the information available and to explain that there is absolutely no need for incitement to panic due to political motivation in this matter. In Estonia, the mining of phosphorite as a whole is a very sensitive issue and I do not think it is responsible for speculating on such a sensitive and very large number of people's situation directly and inciting panic in any way. No, I don't know why they're doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U63	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Let's talk a little more about this accident at Otepää's gravel career. I think you, I don't know whether you deserve or not, have been in a bit of a bad position as a minister. As I understand it, the Reform Party first received a donation of EUR 42000 and, after a while, the gentlemen from Forest Health OÜ received a mining permit from a sub-office of your ministry. Do you agree with me that the right thing to do, both for you and for the party and for the sake of justice, would be to turn to the prosecutor's office and have the prosecutor's office examine the possible connection between the donation and the mining permit? If there's no connection, it's all very nice, but I think we should disprove that suspicion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U65	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U66	Thank you. I understand why you're trying to bring this parallel, but I find that parallel inappropriate and completely inappropriate in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As far as I can tell, the issue of phosphorus has been put in place at national level. It has been understood which resources we have and where they are located. Studies have been carried out, it can be said that in most of them they are final, there is also a position that mining must not take place. But here's a simple question: how do you assess why the VKG came up with such a project in Estonia? Is that normal or, let's say, are there other questions in this game? How do you rate it? Indeed, if you look at not only local sources of information but more broadly, it is no longer just the concern of local people, but it is already a wider concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U68	Thank you. On the one hand, it can be said that the constant desire of any company to further develop its activities, to look for new opportunities and new business careers, a completely new type of area in which to apply itself and profit, is probably one of the driving forces of the company. So, in a way, that might make sense. But I have also said that I do not know whether the very same people who showed a very lively interest in the issue of phosphorite in the public debate would have done so if, for example, their own parents or their own homes were located in the region. I think they did not analyse all the environmental risks, including the environmental risks, that the extraction of phosphorus in Estonia could entail, and they were not based on environmental risks and risks, but, above all, on the interest of a particular company in expanding its activities. Can it be blamed on them or not? I, as Minister of the Environment, say that if you familiarize yourself with the history of phosphorite mining in Estonia, if you go a little further with the legitimate concerns of local people that took up land in the mid- and late 1980s, I think that anyone who calmly evaluates and weighs these risks will understand that phosphorus is not a topic that should be taken lightly in Estonia. These people's concerns need to be understood. Once again, there is no one who has so far proved that it would be possible to mine phosphorus in Estonia without any major risks to clean air, surface water, but also to groundwater. This is an area where you can't just risk it. So let the reason they came out with it stay on their conscience. I am pleased that they have now also said publicly that, since the resistance of local people was so great and the local people have made it clear that they have no interest in carrying out research into the extraction of phosphorite, even if only, in their area of residence, they have abandoned this idea. I think it's responsible behavior on behalf of this company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U69	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that you would not like to comment on what is happening in one municipality or another. I dare say to you that many ministers have been very active in this speech on a large number of local governments. When it comes to Tallinn, we members of the Riigikogu have sometimes forgotten where we sit, either in the Tallinn Council or in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But going back to that part of Otepää, that's my question. Your administration, the Director-General of the Environmental Met and the Environmental Board, still had permission to open a career. However, before this mine was opened, there had been public meetings, environmental officials were aware of it. In your opinion, do you think environmental officials have overlooked this problem? Don't you think you should talk to environmental officials and check that they have not abused their power?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U71	Thank you. I've been asking for explanations. I've also asked for a chronological review. I have to say that unfortunately, one news show made it sound like the position of the Otepää Municipality Government was asked in the middle of a very short period of holidays and that, therefore, it was overlooked in the Municipality of Otepää. I have asked for these views and this chronology precisely from the Environmental Board and I have asked for explanations. As I pointed out at the beginning in my reply: if one rural government cannot, does not want or does not know, within five months, for what reason it does not give an answer to a question where it is legally appointed to represent the interests of local people, I must say once again that it is faceless. I don't want to use harsher words and say that it can be interpreted as malicious behavior. I hope there was no maliciousness, but in any case, things are therefore out of order in this parish government. I did not mean that I could not comment on the activities of the municipality, but that I could not take decisions on behalf of the municipality. The Minister does not have that right, no member of the government has that right, that if one or the other municipality government or city government does not comply with the obligations imposed on him by law, it simply ignores them so that the minister can make that decision for that municipality. This right has not been granted to the members of the government of the legislator, and it is probably reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U72	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U73	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your good answers, Madam Minister. You touched the Otepää. I like that you are very critical of this issue. But at the same time, I don't think you're being quite honest when you say you don't care about Otepää's power at all. After all, the chairman of the council is from the Reform Party, and usually the municipality government is still subject to the council. But my question is rather this: should we not tighten the conditions for issuing permits, because it is a mineral resource that is a strategic, state-owned asset? Perhaps we have been too liberal on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U74	Thank you. It should be analysed on the basis of concrete proposals. It is very difficult to make an assessment at the moment. If there are concrete proposals on what needs to be changed and tightened up, these proposals can already form a position, but it is difficult to make an assessment in general terms. If you have proposals, they must be analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U75	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna clear up a mess Tõnis Kõiv was trying to create in this hall. The Centre Party is certainly opposed to phosphorite exploration and phosphorite mining. The only reason we keep the subject up is so that the Reform Party can't quietly do stupid things, just as Otepää did. If we had picked up Otepää earlier, I don't think a mining permit would have been granted there either. But you have quite categorically said neither to research nor to mining. Can you perhaps answer why your partymate Kallemets continues to visit the local government leaders of Lääne-Virumaa and try to jam them on this subject? Don't you have some kind of prank going on about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U77	Thank you. I take this opportunity to acknowledge all of them, including the Estonian Green Movement, who have shared the position of the Ministry of the Environment regarding the extraction of phosphorite and who have also done some explaining work among the local population, and have also been of the same opinion that the decisions made years ago, in 1991 and 1996, in which the reserves of phosphorite in Estonia were considered passive, were not made simply, but as a result of very thorough consideration, and these decisions must be followed, i.e. it is not possible to mine phosphorus in Estonia. Once again, I do not think that it is possible and appropriate for me to interpret or explain in any way what the project manager of a private company is doing in Parliament's chair. I don't have any information on that. Surely, as Members of Parliament, you will be able to invite the people of the group not only from the public sector, but also from the private sector if you are interested. I think that if you have a more thorough interest in this subject, you can take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U78	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I was asked by the inhabitants of Rägavere Municipality to ask you whether or not the phosphorite research would follow the extraction process.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U80	Thank you. Honourable heir! Unfortunately, you came to the hall at the moment when much of the questioning was already over. I also addressed this issue in my answers to questions from the floor, as well as in the answers to questions from the floor, but I will be happy to do it again. Firstly, no study request has been submitted to the Ministry. Secondly, there is no possibility of granting a study permit without the approval of the local authority. You referred to the leaders of the municipality of Rägavere. Your colleague, Inara Luigas, said that it is possible and even advisable to comment on the actions of local authorities from this remote control. I will take this opportunity to say that the leaders of the municipality of Rägavere have done very well on this issue, they have been proactively and really very intensively in contact with the Ministry of the Environment. I know that they have also been very active in their dealings with the people on the ground, they have really tried to take down unnecessary fears and have done so responsibly in every way. So there's no research going on and there's not going to be one. The reserves of phosphorus have been declared passive in Estonia; there are no changes in this respect either planned or forthcoming. Phosphorus as a mineral is not extracted in Estonia. Once again, there is no research going on in this area either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U81	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! When you're talking about phosphorite research, you use the term 'passive mineral'. In this respect, I have the question: which Estonian mineral resources can we use the term 'passive mineral resources'?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U83	In addition to passive mineral resources, there is a reserve. Some phosphorus is accounted for as a reserve, for example, which also means that it does not belong to mining. With regard to the unexplored, so-called potential mineral resources, I am happy to send you a written explanation so as not to be mistaken with a few nuances. There are also reserves in Estonia that we can say that we do not know whether and to what extent they are hidden in the Estonian countryside. There have also been research requests, which have again been rejected due to opposition from local authorities. Companies coming from outside Estonia have expressed their wish for a more thorough examination of Estonia's rural environment, but these requests have not been met. I'll specify that later in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U84	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment, for your answer. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask my colleague Heimar Leng to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U85	I have come here for a short talk by a remote control with only one aim, namely to capture this issue for history. A big television debate took place shortly before our accession to the European Union and I was honoured to participate. The programme manager asked the participants (he remembered that the phosphorus issue was very acutely raised in the run-up to independence) that if Estonia joined the European Union and lost part of its independence, would the introduction of phosphorous deposits come back on the agenda. Most respondents said no. I was different from the other respondents, and I said that I think that, after accession to the European Union, the introduction of phosphorus deposits will be on the agenda very soon. It's only been a few years now. I thought it was an option in five years, but it was faster. That is why I want to warn the younger generations whose representatives are sitting in this Chamber. I fear that in less than ten years, research has long been carried out, some very mild justification will be found that science is now at a new level, now being mined with new technology, and we could still use some of Estonia's phosphorus. I think what is being said now is similar to what was said before the changeover to the euro, so that the euro does not increase prices. Everyone knows what's happened. Prices were increased even before the changeover and further increases were made. I think the same thing happens with phosphorus. The younger people you'll be sitting in this room in the future, see how much Lenk was wrong. In ten years' time, the extraction of phosphorus in Estonia will be in full swing. Why is that? For one reason only: phosphorus is a very useful mineral, it is very useful to mine, it is good to sell, and Estonian greedy businessmen do not miss this chance. At that time, maybe there's a new minister and new decision-makers, but then look up the verbatim we talked about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U86	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U87	The final question is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Kalvi Tõud, Marianne Mikko and Neeme Suur concerning the calculation of mineral resources submitted on 15 December last year. My colleague Neeme the Great, the speaker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U88	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister for the Environment! True, let's continue on mineral resources and mining. The Social Democrats have submitted to the Minister for the Environment an inquiry into the calculation of mineral resources. Indeed, it has happened that this question deals with the same subject as the previous one, but on the other hand. Why am I introducing this question? Perhaps not because I am a member of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs, but, above all, because the specialty I have learned is the use and protection of natural resources, as well as because I belong to the special committee on the control of the state budget. Extraction of mineral resources is a very important issue, particularly with regard to construction land. Therefore, a national development plan for the use of construction land was drawn up in 2010. The National Audit Office also dealt with the extraction and counting of construction assets in its report in 2009. Why is this so important? Because the state of Estonia has a huge need to build and to build large plans and the price of building all major transport infrastructure sites depends very much on local construction assets, depends on whether they can be extracted and where they can be extracted and at what price and with what technology this is possible. Therefore, it is very important that the building stock is properly accounted for. This is accounted for by the Ministry of the Environment. The National Audit Office pointed out already in 2009 that everything is not right in the calculation of construction assets. We are talking about whether, how and under what conditions mineral resources will be fixed as consumables and active reserves. Because we keep records of our mineral resources on the basis of consumption reserves and active reserves, so we can also plan construction activities and the price of construction activities. It is precisely with regard to the calculation of mineral resources that social democrats are also questions for the Minister of the Environment. Here are ten questions. In terms of saving time, I'm not going to read them all. I hope that the honourable Minister for the Environment will also read the questions before answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U89	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. Minister of the Environment! I beg you once more to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! There are questions, let's start over. The first question: 'What conditions do the Minister of the Environment refer to in his reply to the National Audit Office? ' (This reply dates back to 2009) First of all, so that we don't talk about each other, I will specify that there was a reference to a prior impact assessment of a geological study. Geological research is not an activity with significant environmental impacts within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Therefore, an environmental impact assessment will not be initiated without justifying a specific need, but will be decided on the basis of the same preliminary environmental impact assessment referred to. The results of the ex ante assessment shall be included in the decision to initiate or not to initiate an environmental impact assessment, which shall in turn be made public in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Act. This means that the decision will be sent as a separate document to the local government, the applicant and also to the affected parties for their comments. This decision can also be challenged by all parties. The decision-maker shall carry out an ex-ante assessment of the environmental effects on the basis of a number of criteria. I'll name the most important ones. Firstly, on the basis of the environmental conditions of the site and its immediate vicinity, such as land use, natural resources present in the site, their characteristics and capacity to recover, and the resilience of the natural environment. Secondly, according to the nature of the activity, including its technological level, the use of natural resources, waste and energy intensity, and other activities in the immediate region. Third, based on the consequences of activities such as pollution of water, soil or air, waste generation, noise, vibration, light, heat, radiation, smell. Fourthly, in view of the potential occurrence of operational emergency situations. Fifth, on the basis of the expected impact of the proposed activities on the Natura 2000 network site or on any other protected natural object. Sixthly, based on the magnitude of the effects involved, the spatial extent, duration, frequency and reversibility, effects, cumulative and cross-border effects, and the likelihood of the effects occurring. The second question: "Has the practice described in the National Audit Office's report, where mineral resources are confirmed to be active only on the basis of a geological survey and the environmental impact assessment is limited to the "preliminary assessment', changed during the 2009-2011 period? If so, how? ' Mineral resources shall be confirmed to be active on the basis of the results of the geological survey, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Land Underground Act. The procedure for recording mineral resources did not change between 2009 and 2011. The third question: "Does the Minister of the Environment's assessment of the actual environmental impact before declaring mineral resources active in accordance with the law on the earth? " Once again, I must point out that there is a somewhat misleading claim in this matter, as if the environmental impact of studies prior to the activeisation of mineral resources was not assessed. It's not accurate. But here's the answer. Initiating and not initiating an environmental impact assessment is regulated by the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Paragraph 11 of this Article deals with the objective of assessing the effects on the environment. According to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act, a geological study is preceded by the proposed activities, i.e. the confirmation of mineral resources as active or inactive in this case. In this case, the proposed action is a geological survey. On the basis of the results of the environmental impact assessment of this proposed action, the choice of the most appropriate option and mitigation measures for the proposed action is proposed, which can prevent or minimise environmental degradation and ensure the sustainable use of resources. An ex-ante environmental impact assessment shall provide an answer to the question whether or not an environmental impact assessment is necessary to carry out a geological study. So it is not correct to claim that an environmental impact assessment has been abandoned in a geological study, but that its necessity will be decided as a result of an ex ante assessment. According to this Ground Resources Act, mineral resources are active when the technology and technology used to extract them ensures rational use of the earth and compliance with environmental requirements, and the use of the mineral resources is economically beneficial. On the basis of the data collected during the geological survey, the mineral stock shall be confirmed as active or passive on the basis of the general uses of the investigated mineral stock and the environmental constraints known at the time of the survey. The calculation of mineral resources is also based on § 5 of the Groundwater Act, according to which the Minister of the Environment decides on the basis of this study, taking into account the opinion of the Estonian Mineral Resources Commission, to register the natural deposits in the environmental register. As you probably know, experts in geology, mining, environmental protection and other specialties will be appointed to this committee, and representatives of the Technical Surveillance Authority, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Estonian Cities Association and, of course, the professional associations will be included in the committee, in addition to the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Board. But I would like to stress that when we talk about impact assessments, the impact of one or the other action we can assess still and only when we are aware of the scope, the way, etc. of what we are specifically planning. So, as explained by the Ministry of the Environment in its reply to the National Audit Office in 2009, the recording of mineral resources as active can essentially be considered as an ex-ante assessment of the feasibility of extracting the stock within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. The final decision on whether or not mining is possible will still be made on the basis of a specific permit-based environmental impact assessment. Question 4: Could it be possible for the initial environmental impact assessment not to carry out botanical examination and not to pay attention to the possible occurrence of protected species on the mineral land? ' Once again, the study permit process will assess the environmental impact of the studies. Since geological research is not an activity with a significant impact, the necessity of an environmental impact assessment is decided by a decision on a case-by-case basis. For this same consideration, the decision-maker is already carrying out an ex-ante assessment of the environmental impact assessment referred to above by analysing the materials of the study request and the available environmental information. If the ex-ante evaluation indicates that a botanical examination of the environmental effects of the studies may be necessary, it shall be carried out. As regards the studies preceding the decision on whether mineral resources are accounted for as active or passive, these studies may reveal that mineral resources are extractable in the research area, but it may also be apparent that mineral resources which are recorded as deposits in the environmental register are not present. However, if mineral resources exist and are accounted for in the environmental register, we still cannot assess the environmental impact of a particular mining activity at the research stage, because the scope, time or technology of mining is not known when applying for a research permit. Of course, when we talk about environmental conditions, there is no way to exclude changes in ecosystems in this particular area. So the answer is that the geological study does not carry out biological expertise on the effects of extraction, but may, if necessary, carry out biological expertise to evaluate the effects of the study. Next, the active stock, as you are well aware, is not necessarily equal to the extractable stock. Even the part of the land to be extracted for mining purposes, or within the limits of the mountain allocation, will never be extracted for the entire stock. Some of the stock within the mountain allocation will inevitably not be excavated solely due to safety technical and other constraints, such as the protection of communications, complete restriction zones, remediation trends, etc., and will ultimately be included in the 'loss'. Question 5: 'For what reasons has the Minister of the Environment interpreted the provisions of § 10 of the Groundwater Act in such a way that there is a practice in which no real environmental impact assessment is carried out before the mineral resource is set to become active, the environmental impact assessment is carried out only in the course of the application for a mining permit and, as a result, the active mineral resource may not prove to be economically viable? 'As explained above, an environmental impact assessment is carried out to clarify the effects of a particular activity. So when we talk about mineral resources, in the context of the use of mineral resources, we are talking about research or extraction. On the basis of the data collected during the geological survey, the mineral stock is first confirmed as active or passive, based on the general uses of the investigated mineral stock and the environmental constraints known at the time of the study. If a geological survey is followed by an application for authorisation of a mining right, the need to initiate an environmental impact assessment will be re-decided in the course of the application procedure, in order to assess the effects of the mining activities in particular. Question 6: How does the Minister of the Environment estimate that the situation in which the active mineral resources recorded in the inventory of deposits and the mineral balance may not be extractable, due to the outcome of an ex post environmental impact assessment, to Decree No 29 of the Minister of the Environment, 'Requirements for categories of mineral resources and mineral resources and list of uses of mineral resources'? " Once again, there is, unfortunately, a misleading claim. It is not ex post that environmental impacts are assessed, but, once again, environmental impacts can be assessed when there is clarity about a particular activity envisaged. If it is clear what action is being requested, to what extent, in what way is being requested, it is also possible to assess the effects of such action. If this is not known, it is not possible to assess the impact of unknown activities. As explained above, the mineral stock category is determined on the basis of the facts known during the study and the results of the geological survey. If necessary, an environmental impact assessment shall also be initiated for geological surveys. Thus, active mineral resources on the list of deposits in the environmental register are in accordance with the provisions of Regulation No 29 of the Minister of the Environment established in the Land Underground Act and on the basis thereof. Question 7: 'In what way does the Minister for the Environment ensure that the amount of active mineral resources and the balance sheet of mineral resources correspond to reality and provide a sound basis for national planning activities, particularly as regards the establishment of transport infrastructure? ' The mineral resources listed on the list of deposits in the Environmental Register reflect the level of research they carry out. The presence of mineral reserves within the mineral deposits in the invoice has been demonstrated as well as their compliance with the requirements of the approved mineral category. It's all based on a geological survey. Thus, the inventory of deposits on the list of deposits in the environmental register is reliable in order to keep records of mineral resources proven by research and to organise national planning activities. With the necessary quantity and quality of mineral resources to ensure the construction of the state transport infrastructure, the National Development Plan for the use of construction assets provides for the introduction of a calculation of security of supply on the basis of the relationship between the actual speed of extraction of mineral resources and the use of mineral resources on the basis of actual extraction reserves, or existing mining permits. Thus, security of supply is calculated on the basis of different types of mineral resources and security of supply is considered to be ensured if this stock continues for at least 10 years for mineral extraction. However, I would like to stress once again that security of supply is based on existing mining permits for the extraction of mineral resources and not on the overall mineral resources. Is it possible for me to have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U91	Thank you very much, Minister for the Environment. You have questions. Let's start with my colleague Neeme the Great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U92	Only as much time as 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U93	Then I hope that the questioners, who have no answer to three more questions, will clarify these issues within the framework of additional questions. Responses can also be given in writing. As the subject is very specific and requires careful consideration, it has always been used up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U94	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna take this opportunity to ask you the eighth question. You have just said that mineral resources are calculated according to the mining permits issued, but the National Development Plan for the use of construction resources states that it will take a very long time to obtain a mining permit for the mineral land, which will be estimated at 10 years in the middle. For example, in Harju County, the dolokie of construction assets now continues for ten years. How do you still guarantee that we will be able to build infrastructure objects?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U95	Thank you. This is an imprecise claim that limestone and dolo stone will continue in Harjumaa for ten years. This number is not valid. I have a table in front of me that shows that Harju County has a stock of building lime and dolokivi for 17 years. I said that security of supply is determined on the basis of the quantity of mineral resources provided for mining with authorisation. In the overall calculation of mineral resources, the basis is not the quantity of mineral resources issued with mining permits, but, when we talk about security of supply, this stock, which has already been authorised with mining permits, plays a role in the calculation of security of supply, not in the overall margin. This is an important distinction: when we talk about security of supply, we are talking about a stock already covered by permits. That's all I'd like to do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U96	Good colleague! Only one question can be asked! Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! The tenth issue is the law of the earth. I would like to know from you the stage of the amendment of the law on the ground, based on the concept of the earth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U98	Thank you. This activity is active and the expected time for drafting will be in 2013. Therefore, the current year, 2012 will probably take us first to negotiate within our own house, to clarify the concept, to refine the details, then to involve experts in a specific area and to ask for their opinion, and possibly to clarify the draft. So 2013 is the year when the Ministry of the Environment plans to reach the Riigikogu with a new draft law on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U99	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call my colleague Neeme the Great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U100	Madam President! Indeed, as far as negotiations are concerned, they may prove very necessary, because the understanding of the law is a little different, in fact quite different. Well, first of all, administrative practice is an evil figure. Administrative practice has created a situation where the environmental impact assessment in its actual sense takes place at the most recent stage of the exploitation of mineral resources, i.e. in the course of the mining permit process. If we read a bit of law, we can see that, according to § 10 (2) of the Groundbreaking Act, stock is a mineral resource whose geological exploration capacity enables us to obtain the necessary data for the extraction and use of mineral resources. As the Minister pointed out several times, mineral resources are confirmed to be active according to geological research, and this 'previous environmental impact assessment' is directly relevant to geological research as an activity. Paragraph 10 (6) of the same Groundbreaking Act states that mineral resources are active if the technology and technology used in the extraction of the mineral resources is such as to ensure rational use of the earth and compliance with environmental requirements. We deal very differently here with what was written in the law on the ground. Decree No 29 of the Minister for the Environment also states that mineral resources are considered to be active when rational use of the ground and environmental protection requirements are ensured in the extraction and processing of the mineral resource, as demonstrated by practice or by appropriate research. I don't understand very well at the moment how these sentences can be understood differently. Why is it so important? For the construction of large infrastructure objects, the price of a piece of waste accounts for nearly a third of the price. It is extremely important for the state to know where, how much and under what conditions it is possible to extract construction land. To this end, a national development plan for the use of construction resources was also drawn up in 2010 in order to ensure security of supply. If the administrative practice is that we read the law of the underground and this regulation of the Minister for the Environment differently and read it exactly as mentioned, then we confirm the mineral resources as a supply of supplies and continue to be an active stock, based on purely geological research. The deposits we now have on the list are not all covered by mining permits, certainly not. Mining permits are applied for in a row, reaching a mining permit (negotiations with local authorities, local residents and environmental impact assessments) takes many years. I don't think the point of the law writer was that eventually, when we're there, that we're going to carry out the extraction and apply for a mining permit, we're going to do the KMH. At least that's not what the law says. Unfortunately, it is now such that our list of mineral resources and the balance sheet do not give an overview of how much mineral resources are used in Estonia, especially in relation to the construction of the earth's resources, the filling sand, whatever. In this regard, nothing has changed since 2009. That is unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U101	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-16_U102	If anyone wants to sign up for an appearance in a free microphone, please do so after my hammer hit! There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.12.
