ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 49 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 52 are missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Foreign Minister Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U2	Let's get to the first question. Please, Mr Simson, the question to Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U3	Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. If the private sector of the Estonian state has managed to avoid investing in Greece, the Estonian state has unfortunately decided to invest in Greece through EFSF. When the coalition ambassadors of the Riigikogu approved the Memorandum of Understanding with Greece, it was said that Estonia was responsible for Greek loans up to a maximum of 305.2 million euros. How much of this guarantee granted by Estonia has gone into operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U4	I want to stress that the Republic of Estonia has not granted any loans to Greece and the Treasury has not used Estonia's financial assets directly to purchase Greek bonds. Greece has been granted a loan by the European Financial Stability Fund and will be granted by the ESM in the future. The EFSF and ESM themselves borrow money on the market, and they will continue to lend it to Greece in instalments. As regards Estonia's share of the EFSF, EUR 73.9 billion has been lent to Greece through the EFSF, while Estonia's share of the EFSF is 0.0027%, according to which the EFSF loan corresponding to Estonia's share in Greece would be 199 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U6	Minister, thank you very much. Your party partner, Sven Sester, and many others, have called money placed in European stability mechanisms for investment. What name do you give to the Estonian taxpayer's money placed in the European stability mechanisms?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U7	I would say that, in the usual sense, as Uno Mereste has defined an investment with economic terms, financial investment is a long-term investment for commercial gain. Of course, no one in the current situation imagines that EFSF and ESM were created for commercial gain. Their purpose as a guarantor of the stability of European money is something else, and it is precisely to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis. The financial benefits are not the purpose of their formation. In this sense, the use of the word 'investment' in common sense can be misleading. But Mr. Sester wasn't wrong at all. He quoted our draft law on the ESM Treaty, which talks about the nature of the ESM. To be exact, I quote that too. The explanatory memorandum states: "The state budget reflects the contributions of ESM's paid-up capital in the form of a financing transaction, namely an increase in financial assets as a transaction in the acquisition of shares in an international organisation. In accounting, the transaction is also accounted for as a holding, i.e. not as an expense, but as a financial asset. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U9	Minister, thank you very much. Your colleague and your party's vice-president, Juhan Parts, gave the Postimees an interview yesterday, where he says, among other things, that only an outsider gets the impression that the policy of the IRL and the Reform Party is identical. 'It's not like that. The people of the Reform Party are strong Europeans and try to avoid any alternative views, but there are Eurorealists in the IRL. " Would you explain why European optimism and Eurorealism differ in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U10	I think Juhan Parts had a really good interview at the Postman last night. It opened up our political problems quite openly, and frankness is also essential to building trust in our policies in society. I would call the position of the IRL a euro-conservative position, and this is based on the belief that the fundamental principle of solidarity is that everyone must be able to fulfil their obligations. I believe that this has also included the policy of the European People's Party in resolving the current financial crisis. We are pleased that today the Riigikogu is going to discuss precisely the agreement on ensuring financial stability by strengthening the surveillance of national budgetary discipline. This is clearly a conservative approach that matches the IRL's understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U11	We will now proceed with the issues registered on the ground. Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U12	Honourable waitress! You are here as Prime Minister, but I have a question for you as Minister of Defence in the context of Greece. How does Greece meet its commitments to NATO in a difficult economic situation, and what is the level of defence expenditure in that country? I am thinking of the news in the media that Greece bought very expensive protective equipment during a difficult time of crisis. There has also been a debate in Estonia about whether we need to keep our defence costs so high in difficult times. Maybe you can comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U13	As the Minister for Defence of the European Union and NATO Member States, I can only express an unequivocal call on all NATO countries to guide their defence costs by the principle that they represent 2% of gross domestic product. We must realise that when we talk about ensuring military security in Europe, all European partners must be prepared to contribute financially. It would therefore be impossible for me to grant Greece an exception because of its financial situation and to blame the country for having contributed more than 2% of its gross domestic product to the country's military security. As far as Estonia's situation is concerned, allocating 2% of gross domestic product to this end is, in my opinion, the only right and sensible political decision. I hope that this attitude will continue, because it will enable us to build a sustainable conservation plan in the long term. At the end of this year, we will have to prepare a national defence development plan for the next ten years and this plan will also be based on this 2%. Looking at the current economic situation and the economic situation of those countries that are our main export partners, the situation does not give rise to overflowing optimism, but I am sure that our economy is moving uphill. This is also a sign of the fact that in the summer economic forecast, gross domestic product (GDP) for next year has been adjusted upwards. In nominal terms, this also reflects national defence expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U14	Now the last two questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U15	A question for you, as Prime Minister, about ESM and EFSF, although under certain conditions they can also be regarded as protective measures, at least in terms of the economic environment. You have mentioned Europeans and Europeans, as well as Europeans. How do you feel about EFSF and ESM being 'European','realistic' or 'Euroconservative' economic protection instruments by nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U16	I say that euro-conservative monetary policy in the euro area would not have allowed for a situation where Member States have made commitments that they are unable to fulfil in a sustainable way. Therefore neither the EFSF nor the ESM are regarded as separate economic ideologies, but are practical measures in the current crisis. When we talk about the philosophical or fundamental assumptions that have led us to the financial crisis, the problem of sovereign debt, it is undoubtedly a conservative attitude that we must not live beyond force. The family, the state or one currency area in which the euro zone is created must not live beyond force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U17	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U18	Mr. Secretary of Defense! You mentioned this 2% of our gross domestic product here. I'm gonna do a little detour. We have a lot of poor children, poor and troubled families. Is there any history of the fact that defence costs have temporarily supported deprived groups in any way? Let us say that, in the case of natural disasters, of course, the military will come to the aid of the people, but will there not be money from the cost of defence in some countries in order to support the people at difficult times?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U19	The question is, there is no point in deceiving ourselves. What we're spending money for is what we're spending it for. If we want to protect the Estonian state and we want to contribute financially to it, then this 2% national defence is not meant to report anywhere. It is designed to have an independent defence capability so that we have military defence capabilities to act with our military allies. This must be guaranteed by 2%, and this is the optimism that we have built on in our policies. But, of course, social problems in our country also need to be solved. I am sure that, as soon as negotiations on the preparation of next year's state budget peak, these issues will also find a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U20	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U21	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U22	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! The daily newspaper wrote at the beginning of this week about how the European Anti-Fraud Office, or OLAF, is about to initiate the process in order to recover more than 9 million euros from the Estonian state. This demand is linked to the activities of an official convicted of corruption in your ministry, although before you took office, in the organisation of public procurement for water projects. Would you be so good as to explain how the loss of EEK 350000 mentioned in the judgment could have led to an increase of more than EUR 9 million in the possible claim mentioned in the OLAF study?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U23	Good questioner! I will start with the fact that no recovery has been made so far. This is a proposal from a sub-unit of the European Commission and, of course, Estonia, as stated in the newspaper article you referred to, does not agree with this proposal. We are talking about a water project financed through the Environmental Investment Centre. Our country's view that we do not agree with the proposal to recover EUR 9 million is based, above all, on the fact that no financial damage has been caused, the project has been successfully implemented and the project has been necessary. No one has questioned the necessity of this. It is, however, the construction of a modern water management system, or waterworks, in Kohila. Once again, there is no financial loss, the project has been successfully completed, and the particular "problemous person" who, while participating in the panel's work, did not assess any sub-sections of this project, has not been able to influence this decision. All subsequent independent evaluations have also confirmed that the decision on funding would have been exactly as it was anyway. We believe that the proposal to recover money is disproportionate and unwarranted. However, it is true that a specific official who, by the way, has not been working in the Ministry of the Environment since 2011, should have withdrawn himself from the work of this panel, but failed to do so and thus violated the rules. However, once again, the outcome of the assessment and Kohila water project were not affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U24	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U25	Thank you, good minister, for your exhaustive first answer. But I have an additional question. Knowing OLAF's relatively resolute behaviour and the importance of its proposals and decisions in the eyes of the European Commission, it can be expected that, since the crime has been detected, the European Commission will still recover some amount from the Estonian state. I have the following question. This project was carried out in co-financing Kohila rural municipality and the values created thanks to the project belong to its municipality OÜ Kohila Maja, its project documentation on the basis of which the crime was committed, however, was carried out by an official of the Ministry of the Environment. If it comes up on the agenda, who would theoretically have to bear the damage, either the Ministry of the Environment or the Municipality of Kohila?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U26	I am not willing to go on such a slippery speculation to predict what the final decision of the European Commission will be. Once again, this is initially a sub-unit proposal concerning the decision taken in 2008 by the Environmental Investment Centre on the financing of Kohila's water management project. What will be the final decision, neither you nor I nor any of the representatives of Estonia can now predict. There is no way to predict that. Once again, the evaluation of this project was legitimate. The fact that a particular official did not withdraw from the Commission's work years ago was a breach of the rule, but it did not affect the evaluation decision. The money has been used for its purpose, the objective has been achieved. Kohila's people have received a proper and modern water supply, which the European Union's directives oblige Estonia to ensure. There's no harm done. I do not agree that there has been damage. Once again, Estonia has challenged the same OLAF proposal that you referred to; we do not agree with that. I do not want to predict the final result, but I think that Estonia's position is quite strong because the money has been used for its purpose and the evaluation process has been legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U27	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U28	Let me ask you a little bit more. When this unfortunate incident took place, your predecessor, Minister Tamkivi, commented: 'Yes it is, but when it comes to large sums of money and large projects, people are sometimes wrong. " Now the years have passed, and this unfortunate case will certainly not bring fame to Estonia. I ask: how is the ministry currently organised so that ministerial officials, who could have criminal intentions, are unable to involve their companies at different stages of the projects? Is this ensured by internal controls or by what measures have been taken over these years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U29	I begin by saying that the Environmental Investment Centre, which is the implementing unit for the provision of European Union money in the field of environment, is one of the most effective entities with a control mechanism. Moreover, it is the only implementing entity that has been rated by the highest category when auditing management control systems. So the control systems are strong and certainly this example cannot be extended to the whole system. However, these control mechanisms have been further strengthened. When we are talking about the proportion of infringements or also the proportion of recoveries, as of this year, recoveries represent less than 1% of all payments paid out, namely 0.11%. That's a very small figure. However, if you look at all the decisions made at all, this percentage will be less than 0.1 per cent, which is 0.05%. This shows that the system has been effective. There can, of course, be no concessions in this regard. Control must be effective, it must be proper, and the fact that such cases can also be resolved in court is one proof that the system actually works. If it is a breach of the rules, it will be traced and the persons concerned will be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U30	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U31	Dear Minister, Are the arguments that you have mentioned that the money has been used for its purpose and that there are no problems, the only arguments that Estonia brings to the European Commission in its positions? Or are there any other arguments if you object?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U32	Since this is an ongoing dispute, it is perhaps not reasonable to deal with it in very detailed terms here. But, of course, our arguments are more comprehensive. However, I reiterate: indeed, the money has been used for its purpose and all public procurement requirements have been respected in the use of the money. The aim was to build a modern water and sewerage network in Kohila, a region of around 4,000 people, and this has been achieved. That is certainly a very compelling argument. Similarly, I repeat that the individual to whom the applicant referred did not participate in the assessment of any section of the contested project, be it a study to be carried out, a financial analysis or an environmental impact assessment. These assessments were made by other experts. The Environmental Investment Centre, as I have already said, has also carried out a number of independent evaluations since then, we wanted to make sure that the decision taken would have been the same regardless of whether or not this particular person was involved. All these independent experts confirm that Kohila's water project was necessary and that this decision would have been taken either way. Just one person from the panel of ten voted in favour of this decision in the same way. It may be good for you to know that this decision was made with one voice in 2008, it was not that the voice of this one person would somehow have been a weight language. Everyone was convinced that Kohila needed a new plumbing, and consequently all ten members of the Commission voted in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U33	And I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U34	In the same area, the following is the subject-matter. Let us say that the use of money for the construction of a water project was also decided by a council member, who was also the owner of a company providing the same service. When the council decided to finance the water project, that council member voted in favour of allocating money to the company and this money went to co-finance the water project of the Environmental Investment Centre. Do you see a possible contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U35	It is very difficult to make an assessment so quickly. In general, when it comes to a project supported by the Environmental Investment Centre, once again: control mechanisms, including later control mechanisms, are very thorough. The control is further carried out by the Ministry of Finance. So I should look at all the facts in detail so that I can give a concrete assessment of this example. Once again, when it comes to the Environmental Investment Centre's decision on the use of Structural Funds money, decisions are taken by the Executive Board of the Environmental Investment Centre. When we talk about evaluation committees, they are not made up of one or two people precisely to avoid a possible very large impact on one person or another. There are many members on the evaluation committees and the Commission's position is recommended to the final decision maker, i.e. to the Bureau. But if anyone has any reason to believe that there are any violations, of course, it must be reported immediately. Once again, the decisions of the Environmental Investment Centre go through a very thorough chain of control, and therefore, as I said, there is a lower percentage of infringement than in all other implementing bodies. 0.11%, when it comes to hundreds of millions of euros, is a very small figure. But, of course, it would be nice if there were no violations at all. I'd like that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U36	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U37	The next question is for Mr Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Stout. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U38	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Can you tell me how many organisations Estonia has a member through different ministries or ministries and how much do we pay in a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U39	Thank you for a good specific question. We participate in the work of 400 international organisations through different ministries and public authorities. 99 of them don't have a membership fee, and 301 are. So in 301 organizations, we pay a membership fee. This year's budget has a total membership fee of EUR 20,77 million, which will be of the same order next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U40	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U41	Thank you very much for your specific answer. Today the Riigikogu also has one item on its agenda, according to which Estonia will probably become a member of the Agricultural Development Fund. Can you tell me how many organizations we're not yet a member of and how many we're joining? And can you explain anything about this point today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U42	First of all, of course, the number 400 is quite large and that is why, at the beginning of the summer, we began, together with all the other ministries, to produce an overview of our membership in international organisations. The aim is that we should still only be part of these international organisations and spend in the form of membership fees, which makes sense. It cannot be excluded that this review will result in a proposal to leave some organisations. In time, our status as a member may have disappeared or is not justified for any other reason. So this figure may decrease somewhat. I do not know exactly how many international organisations there are at all, but there are hundreds, if not thousands, of those where we do not participate. After all, many regional organisations are also international in the regions of the world where Estonia is far away. To say exactly in advance whether and if so, how many mergers will come this year or next year, today will not be possible. They're probably coming, but they're a few. Looking at the prevailing trend, a relatively large merger leap has taken place in the last two years, before that, things were stable for years. So, if you look at the overall picture, I'd rather not think there's gonna be another wave of accession in the next few years. As I said, the analysis review that is being prepared may result in a decision that it is reasonable to leave some organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U43	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U44	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Thank you for your answers. One topical issue has recently been the WTO. Russia also became a member of the WTO in August. Estonian farmers have hoped for a recovery in trade since then, but this recovery has not taken place and this is a problem for the sector. Please explain, on the basis of your information, what developments may stand in the way of Russia's entry into the WTO and what hopes Estonia could have in this regard!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U45	First of all, it is certainly easier to live if expectations are adequate in all things. You don't have to entertain insufficiently high hopes, sometimes you have to be disappointed, and then you feel a little bad. So the expectations should be on the right level. As far as Russia's accession to the WTO is concerned, I have also said in the past that we have supported Russia's accession to this organisation in itself. At least in theory, the economic environment, including the international economic environment, should become clearer in its relations with Russia. This is, of course, on the assumption that Russia will indeed follow all WTO principles as soon as possible. But the criterion of truth is practice and it is quite certain that it will take time to put in place all these principles and also to set up patterns of behaviour. There's nothing going on overnight. Some things that are more clearly measurable have also happened and are happening. This concerns the harmonisation of customs tariffs for certain groups of goods and the elimination of these differences, which may have been primarily politically motivated. But yes, no one has predicted an overnight upheaval, and there is no reason to do so. Rather, it is a matter of an international trading culture. Unfortunately, there is also a trend in which some political and economic issues are being linked. For example, Russia is now relatively quick to obtain visa liberalisation from the European Union for the holders of Russian service passports and confirms that if this does not happen quickly, the teams of airlines from certain European Union countries may be required to apply for visas so that they can fly to Russia at all. There are two things that shouldn't be related to each other. And unfortunately, there are other examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U46	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U47	Apart from NATO and the European Union for a moment, in which international organisations are the most active Estonians? Where do we expect Estonians to break through top management, and which organisations among these 400 have been the most useful to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U48	I hope that all 400 organisations have benefited, or at least at the time of the decision to join them. As I said, in time, this efficiency could change. Among these 400 are the organisations we joined in the 1990s, and now either some organisations have changed or our needs and ambitions have changed. We're working on a review of that list. If you look at the important international organisations in which the people of Estonia are in important positions, there are. If you take the European External Action Service (EEAS), Estonia has achieved more jobs there than we could expect according to the ratio between our population and the population of the European Union as a whole. One of the most important and politically visible posts is, for example, the President of the Assembly of the Member States of the International Criminal Court. Today this is the Estonian diplomat Tiina Intelmann. This is a very important place politically and also from the point of view of the rule of law, and more specifically from the point of view of preventing all kinds of mass crimes. But our people are also found in other United Nations sub-organisations, as well as in international financial organisations. So if you look at proportional representation, then surely Estonia is more represented in international organisations with its people than our population would expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U50	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul, question to Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U51	Mr. Minister! A few weeks ago, you expressed your frustration at the fact that soldiers who were severely wounded in Afghanistan, who had their leg amputated, were completely cured in the social services department. They were not identified as disabled and are therefore deprived of the social benefits for disabled people. You said that such a situation should be resolved immediately, that it was insane and you would not accept it. Perhaps many have forgotten, but you were the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee in the previous Riigikogu, and we discussed these issues repeatedly. After all, it was only a year and a half ago, how did you not get familiar with this situation and why didn't you start looking for a solution earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U52	Honourable questioner! Indeed, I had the honour of chairing a committee within the previous Parliament, to which I am pleased you were also a member. But as far as this practical problem is concerned, I think it is reasonable that we review the current system of wounded military personnel. I have sent a letter of formal notice to the Minister of Social Affairs about this, and we will certainly reach an agreement on support for men and women who fought for Estonia, on social rehabilitation and on the restoration of their health. My concrete proposal is based on the fact that we have a very well-functioning Defence Forces Support Centre, whose experts' opinion should certainly be taken into account in the expert analysis. Under the direction of the Ministry of Defence, a discussion round was organised in the spring to analyse these specific cases with the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and now agreements have been reached at the working level, which were also reflected in the fact that two Defence Forces received a positive response during the new procedure and were assigned a disability. As regards the other two injured armed forces, for which this particular case came to the agenda, their requests have indeed received a negative response in the current proceedings, but it is my clear position that the Defence Forces will continue to treat and rehabilitate them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U53	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U54	The question, of course, does not concern only the defence forces; the problem is much wider. We have 130,000 people with disabilities, plus those who are not identified as they are in this case. How many times did I ask myself personally, but also many others in the Commission, that if, for example, a person does not have a leg, why must he continue to prove that he does not have a leg? A person's situation can only get worse, not better, but he will be cured. Why do these experts decide that, and why is it done on a paper basis? Doctors don't even see a disabled person! How much have we had to talk about rehabilitation plans, people not getting them, etc., etc. And we have still received from both the Minister for Social Affairs Pevkur and from you in response to the fact that the situation is what it is, and you have not seen any solutions. Do you have solutions today? How can you prove in the government that people with disabilities are really in trouble and the system is limping?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U55	When it comes to this particular case, it needs a real solution. I have made my proposals concerning the system of rehabilitation of injured defence forces and their social benefits. I would also like to announce that the Action Plan of the Government of the Republic has agreed on a policy for veterans, which could lead to changes in the legislation currently in force. Men and women who have fought for Estonia and participated in foreign missions must be recognised both for those who have been injured and for those who have gone on a wider mission. These people must be supported and given help if necessary. As far as the general organisation of the social sector in determining disability is concerned, the objective that the previous Committee on Social Affairs had had has not disappeared. The system must be built on a human-friendly basis, but also with a view to minimise the administrative burden involved. This concerns not only the procedure for determining disability, but also a wide range of other areas of social security and social welfare. The aid must be effective, the aid must be tailored to the needs and must be accompanied by as little administration as possible for the practitioners and, above all, for the individual himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U56	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U57	Well, these plans have been made, but nothing's changed since your party was in the government or now. But since you like to talk more about the Defence Forces, I'm asking you, right now, there is no legal basis for prosthetics without the degree of disability. How, then, can we resolve these questions? People have to buy their own prosthetics. When will this situation be resolved? And I mean, of course, the problem more broadly, not just the militia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U58	This question has indeed been discussed. The legal amendment that solves the problem will enter into force within the framework of the new Defence Forces Service Act, which will be in force on 1 April next year. As far as the legal basis is concerned, the current law links it to the disabled, but the defence forces have their right of discretion as regards the provision of support to injured defence forces, and it already allows for the application of this law arising from the new text of the law. There's no problem here. But it is certainly reasonable to be clear about this, and I have made proposals in this regard. As far as support for people with disabilities is concerned more generally, this is one very serious issue, which is specifically set out in the government's action plan. One area is labour market services for disabled people. We know that even during the economic boom, there was a group of people with disabilities who did not get a job, even though they would have wanted to work with part-time or according to their medical condition. The employment rate of these people was low compared to that of the rest of society: 20%. I think that this is a serious area of our labour market policy. We need to help businesses by motivating and developing further or retraining for disabled people and, if necessary, by promoting this by means of a legal procedure to address this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U59	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U60	Dear Minister, I'm a little concerned about the views you've expressed in your interviews. In an interview with the Reporter, you gave an example that a person working in the Defence Forces who earns 700 euros per month cannot start to pay the market price for the apartment until his salary rises. But this price is now also paid by mothers earning a minimum wage and by many other low-income people, such as youth teachers, who do not live on official property. Right now, I'm hearing that the militia have a deep bow in front of those who have an amputated limb or who have been injured by other means! Special incentives, special rehabilitation measures. But if a person who works in his own country and does his best for Estonia, loses his hand or leg here in Estonia, why must he have benefits different from those of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U61	I think that our social welfare system must be built on solidarity that supports the health of people with special needs, both their livelihood and their work implementation, if their health permits it and they have that interest. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is indeed a special group of people who have fought for the security of the Estonian state and the freedom of the Estonian state and who have been injured or otherwise injured on a foreign mission. My clear understanding is that this group of people must be prepared to give special support and respect to society. In total, 41 Estonian Defence Forces have been seriously injured in the 2000-2012 period, but just over 100 Defence Forces have been injured in military operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U62	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the spot, Mr Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U63	Mr. Minister! Here, when we are discussing this issue, it is our tragedy that we are creating problems ourselves in order to resolve them afterwards and to make them sound good and necessary. You were a member of the Social Affairs Committee, and you caused a problem in the service of war veterans. Then you got a new job, tripped over the problem you caused yourself, and now you're going to solve it. Very good! When, then, will the social problems of the war veterans currently on the agenda be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U64	I do not agree, in principle, with the argument that when it comes to real opportunities for social welfare, our country's policy does not consider this to be one of its preferences. If we look at the share of social expenditure in our state budget, it has increased. This is clearly a real priority for financial choices in the different budgets. This share has also increased during the economic crisis, not decreased. It has been a conscious political choice. With regard to the issue of the armed forces specifically injured, this is a real practical problem that needs to be resolved. I have put forward my proposals on this, and I hope that we will be able to reach decisions in the near future. The broader issue concerns support for our veterans, men and women on foreign missions. It is part of the general veteran policy, I hope the government will approve this policy already at the end of this year. Veteran politics, however, are not born in silence. I am counting on serious cooperation with Parliament's Committee on National Defence and the Social Committee and, of course, with injured soldiers, as well as with other members of the Defence Forces who have been on foreign missions and who are in active service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U65	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U66	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U67	Minister, thank you very much. In recent times, the pay paid by the state, mainly how much someone's wages are rising and whether they are rising, is under close public scrutiny. I have heard mainly the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Education and Science and the Minister for Social Affairs and the ERR policy programme 'Forum' is also dedicated to this topic. What about the Ministry of the Environment? Do you feel the pressure to raise your wages and are there any hope of wage increases for people in your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U68	I thank you for your interest in the environment. I think that when we talk about preparing the budget for next year and the issues that are most acutely on the agenda during the budget negotiations, salaries in any sector or sector are one of the main topics for discussion. The expectation of wage growth in all areas is well known to all of us, as is also known by the fact that budget formation is trying to find opportunities for wage growth that would not lead to a exponential wage race. In any case, there is a need for wage growth in all sectors. This is also the subject on which all ministers are seeking a solution during the budget negotiations, regardless of what area they are responsible for.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U69	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U70	We have been able to read this through a number of media publications that there is a need for wage increases, and different interest groups are also putting pressure on this. But you didn't answer my questions as to whether the people in your ministry's administration are expecting a raise next year or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U71	Your question was whether there was hope. The answer is yes, it is. And not only in the field of the Ministry of the Environment, but also in all other areas where the need to raise wages is known and seen by everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U72	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U73	Good minister! Next thing I know, I'm asking about RMK, but not about the rise in RMK's head's salary. We've been able to read that the Minister of Finance has come up with the idea of taking RMK to the stock market. As the minister responsible for this administration, I ask you: is this the plan? Perhaps you would also enlighten the Members of Parliament if that was the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U74	You are currently misleading both your colleagues and the public. I have read that this plan has been discussed by your groupmate who left the Riigikogu hall a moment ago. The Minister for Finance does not have such a plan, and I have no idea why Lauri Laas, who has made such a statement in the media, stepped up with such speculation and where he takes such claims. It is certainly known to members of the Riigikogu that the State Forest Management Centre, or RMK, is not a company. It is a profit-making institution of the State and it is not possible to place the State profit-making body on the stock market in a purely legal manner. I believe that this is basic information that you are actually familiar with. It makes no sense to move forward with such speculation. There is no possibility of placing RMK on the stock market and in any case there is no need to change the form of operation of the State Forest Management Centre. It is an institution that is not only engaged in forest management, but which has done a very good job in the field of nature conservation, especially recently. Very much has been invested in bringing more people into the forest. Those who do not like to dive in the bush and break through the thickets have created a wide range of more comfortable opportunities. This is a work that the company could not do in this capacity and in this form. However, RMK is performing this role very well. There is no plan for the stock market for the government, and probably your colleague, Lauri Laas, did not consider this proposal to be very serious, either, when he was doing so in the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U75	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with colleague Tarmo Tammes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U76	Madam Secretary! My question is also about RMK, but it is not about bringing it to the stock market, but about the salary of the manager of RMK, which rose from EUR 6000 to EUR 7000. When the Minister of Finance appeared here in front of the Riigikogu on Monday, he was very critical and considered this increase to be unreasonable. As a leader in this field, how do you comment on this? Do you consider this justified, or do you agree with the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U77	As you know, RMK is run by the Council and does so under the Forest Act. The relevant frameworks have been provided by the legislator. Minister of the Environment RMK is not a member of the Council. But, of course, I'm ready to make my own assessment. This is largely similar to the position expressed by the Minister of Finance. The solution reached by the Council in concluding a new agreement for five years has given rise to a great deal of questioning and resentment. This criticism and resentment are very much justified. At the same time, it should also be noted that, as far as I am aware, the Council was also discussing whether it would be wise to announce a new competition. The Council started wage negotiations from a much, much higher level. Aigar Kallas, the only candidate for the competition, was much higher than what the Council finally agreed. If the competition had been declared unsuccessful, this would have meant that the second public authority, in terms of the size of the assets, would probably have been left unmanaged for half a year. And that certainly would not have been a good solution. Once again, however, I agree to a large extent with the assessments and criticisms of the salary set by the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U78	Please, last question registered on the spot, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U79	Minister of the Environment! Is it true that RMK has a very high investment need and is looking for ways to finance these investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U80	Of course, RMK has an investment need and, of course, it is looking every day for ways to meet these needs. This has been done very well by the current management, and investments have been made as the Council has set out. These investments are not just about the need to deal with forest management. Investments also have in mind the objective of creating more opportunities for people to go to the forest. RMK has also been working on nature conservation work for some time now, and RMK is obliged to do these work. Neither do nature conservation works without money; they also need investment. RMK has acted in a very reasonable manner and has been able to cover all investment needs. The resources have been found and will certainly be found in the future. So if your question had been raised in a slightly different form, I would have answered that there were no problems with finding resources for RMK.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U81	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their questions and thank the ministers for their answers to the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U82	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the second working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. I can already see that there is a desire to hand over questions or drafts. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U83	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act, the State Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act. It was necessary to facilitate parents' livelihoods and to alleviate the financial situation of families in the event of multiple births that led to the drafting of the proposal. According to the draft, in the event of the birth of twins, triplets and more multiples, both parents will be granted the right to parental leave and parental benefit, and a new type of family allowance will be introduced: triplet and more polygamous families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U84	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U85	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I and 11 other members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to address to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. It's about internal security. At a time when the energy of the Ministry of the Interior appears to be aimed solely at moving the Estonian Academy of Defence from Tallinn to Ida-Virumaa, the internal security of the state has been neglected. Police officers point out that mainly due to a lack of resources, community-based police work has been reduced. There has also been a reference to serious shortcomings in governance. For example, compliance with the fuel limit will be monitored with the utmost precision, which means that there will be a minimum possibility of patrolling. On September 6, the newspaper brought to its readers a vital story describing the fear of the Türi people in front of the bad guys. Local residents are afraid to move outside, police are not encouraged to write statements and local police are accused in cooperation with people from criminal background. On 15 September in the Vikerraadio show 'The servants of the People', journalist Rasmus Kagge referred to very serious problems in internal security. We were used to hearing about similar problems in the early 1990s, when our legal space and Estonia were at the beginning of their development. From what we read on the site and from the Rainbow Radio, it has become clear that the police are refusing to accept statements, that patrols are being beaten, that the local police chief is a man whose son has committed drug crimes, that cars are being burned, and that homes are being beaten with bats. In the light of these problems, we have five questions for the Minister of the Interior. They concern the possible move of the Estonian National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa in Vaivara municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U86	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. And if an inquiry complies with the same law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Law of the Bar Association, initiated on 17 September, and related amendments to other laws. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Support Group on Democracy and Civil Liberties in Belarus will take place in this Chamber, convened by Juku-Kalle Raid. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Let's put it on the agenda! On today's first item on the agenda, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 18 on advance notice of grant strike, the Chairman of the Committee, Margus Tsahkna, will make a presentation on behalf of the Social Affairs Committee. On today's second item, proposal No 19 by the Chancellor of Justice, the Chair of this committee, Kaja Kallas, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs. On today's 10th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Prisons Act, the Penal Code and the Penal Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, Andres Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 18 on advance notice of grant strikes. Let me remind you how we handle this. First, the Chancellor of Justice's presentation is 20 minutes, then the presentation by Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for 20 minutes and then the presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, of the leading committee of the draft law before the proceedings of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. The negotiations will then take place. Representatives of committees and political groups, as well as other members of the Riigikogu, may speak. Following the negotiations, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. If the Riigikogu supports the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring the collective labour dispute resolution law into line with the Constitution, the Chairman of the Riigikogu will instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the collective labour dispute resolution law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Let's go! The Chancellor of Justice's Opinion No 18 on advance notice of grant strikes. Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Tederi, waitress of the speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The right to strike is a fundamental right of a person according to the Constitution. The strike as such is the legal instrument at the disposal of the employee to stand up for his interests and rights. In Estonia, the right to strike is guaranteed more widely than the Constitution expressly provides, as the law allows for support strikes at the same time as the main strike. There is no more precise definition of the concept and content of the grant strike, but in essence this collective action is intended to support strike workers who thus stand up for their interests and rights. This means that there is no labour dispute between the employees involved in the grant strike in the undertaking or establishment and strikers do not stand directly for their own interests. With support for "head strike" participants, the support strike aims to exert additional pressure on the employer against whom the head strike is directed. It is not an act against its employer, so it should not be the aim of the sponsors to cause widespread harm to their employer or to harm the functioning of the state or the population. Under the current regime, only three days' notice is sufficient for the organisation of the strike. In doing so, the employer has very limited legal possibilities to stand up for his rights. He or she does not have the means provided for in the head strike; he or she cannot turn to a national conciliator or influence the course of the strike if there is no link between his or her company and the company involved in the head strike. As the main strike must be announced in advance for at least two weeks, the decision to organise the strike can be considered for a relatively long time. At the same time, before receiving a notification of the organisation of a grant strike, employers may not foresee a possible downtime and therefore may not be able to rethink the necessary restructuring, as no business-to-business connection is required for the organisation of a grant strike. As a support strike does not require the existence of an inter-employer influence line, the management of an enterprise providing IT services, for example, cannot logically foresee that a main strike somewhere, we say in the yard, could lead to a subsidy strike in their company. This means that the support strike will come as an unpleasant surprise to this employer and, upon receipt of the notification, it will have to actively reorganize its activities in order to minimise potential damage. Among other things, it is necessary to inform its partners and, where appropriate, for example in the case of vital services, also the public. Enterprises providing essential services must ensure the continuity of service provision. They are accountable to the public and the availability of these services may depend on the life, health or security of people. This is not an area of unthinkable, unpleasant surprise in which the suspension of work can take place. The shorter the notice period, the more difficult it is, of course, for an undertaking to reorganize the work so that it and the public do not suffer excessive damage. It is therefore important that the company is informed of the existence of a subsidy strike as soon as possible. It is clear that the rights and obligations of the parties accompanying only a three-day notice period are not proportionate, given the steps required of the staff and the purpose of the grant strike. The right to strike may be guaranteed by the Constitution in general, and I fully agree with that, but the Constitution and the requirements of international law must nevertheless be respected. Rights and obligations arising from the exercise of the right to strike must be balanced. The three-day notice period puts the company in an unreasonable situation, as in such a short time the employer and its contractual partners will not be able to react to the situation, especially if the employer cannot influence the course of the strike. A reasonable extension of the notice period will less prejudice the fundamental rights of the parties. By introducing a longer period of notice of the grant strike, the right to strike guaranteed by the Constitution would not be infringed and the conduct of the grant strike would not become virtually impossible. In the event of a longer period of notice, the public and employers will be aware of the existence of a subsidy strike earlier, and the action of employees can achieve a wider audience. This may even increase the effectiveness of the grant strike, as the employer of the strikers will be given a better chance to find ways to influence the employer of the head strike. This impact, however, is the main objective of the subsidy strike. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U89	Thank you very much, Chancellor. You have questions too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U90	Your Honor, Chancellor! Here's the question. In the spring, when these support strikes took place, with too short a notice period, there was actually another problem. The main strike was announced, at least in part, by the Confederation of Trade Unions, who, under our laws, should not declare a basic strike at all. If the main strike itself is of dubious value in the eyes of the legislator, should a support strike be carried out? Is that not one question that the Chancellor of Justice should come to this Chamber so that this deficit can be eliminated in the Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U91	I have not analyzed this issue. I've just taken up a subject that's been upstairs, if I'm not mistaken since 2004, and I've come before you to arrange it. Any complex, emotional and otherwise difficult issues must be resolved by problems, analysed and searched for a reasonable, balanced solution that is proportionate in every way. But I would point out that the subject you asked about has not been analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U92	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U93	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! What, in your opinion, would be a reasonable period of notice for a grant strike?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U94	The Chancellor of Justice cannot dictate to the legislator what this solution might be. At the same time, I can express my opinion in a non-binding way. In any case, not three days, the deadline could be within a week. Two weeks is the deadline for advance notice of the main strike, and I assume it will also be possible to settle relations with the contractual partners within a week. And other factors have to be taken into account, such as the possibility of recourse to a court of appeal, the possibility of initial legal protection. The court must be able to analyse the substance of the matter, which is highly questionable in the case of three days.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U95	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U96	Mr. Chancellor of Justice! From a longer written version of your proposal, I learned that this issue would almost have been resolved in 2006 at the latest, if an agreement had been reached between the social partners. It didn't come true, though. Could you tell me the circumstances under which it was not carried out at the time? What could be the motives of its blockers, or there were no real motives, but it was simply an ideology that the worse, the better?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U97	Unfortunately, I don't have any information on that. I can just say that until then, it went, and then it stopped. I thought it would be correct to get to the point where the Constitution gives the Chancellor of Justice the authority. I found that if the problem is solved, the Chancellor of Justice will come to the floor and propose to you, honourable Members, and then you will decide, yes or no. I don't know what those reasons were.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U98	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your report and your answers. No further questions. I now ask Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U99	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable President! Estonia is not a country with very large strike traditions, but there are things that have happened in this area and there are things that are still in the air. So it was gone on Tuesday, 11 September, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed, among other important items, the written proposal of the Chancellor of Justice No 18. The Chancellor of Justice and an official from the Office of the Chancellor of Justice were also present. At the meeting of the committee, the Chancellor of Justice commented on the circumstances that prompted him to make this proposal to the Riigikogu. It was said that the Act on collective labour dispute resolution, which also provides for a three-day period for advance notice of grant strikes, is valid since 1993. So this law has been in force for quite a while. It was explained that the three-day deadline was insufficient to enable the employer to restructure its work sufficiently and to inform the contract partners in good time. We also talked about the fact that the aim of the grant strike is to give support to the participants in the main strike, to show solidarity with them, and that the grant strike can also take place at a time when a cease-fire has been announced. In all these circumstances, the Chancellor of Justice has addressed the Riigikogu in the past. The previous Chancellor of Justice did so in 2004, but there was no solution to the question, and now the Chancellor of Justice considered it necessary to remind the Riigikogu once again. I can assure you that this time the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were all very rarely in agreement. We found that the Chancellor of Justice's view that the three-day notice period is not enough for support strikes is correct and we all decided to support his proposal together. The length of time that should be set when we are about to change the law is an issue in itself. But it is clear that three days is a deadline that creates artificial obstacles on both sides: on the one hand, for an employer who is not able to reorganize his affairs so quickly, and on the other hand, for the support strikers themselves. As sad-funny as it may be, the deadline of three days can also lead to unwanted consequences for them. Let me give you an example of the spring case that related to Eesti Energia. There was a three-day notice period and they wanted to arrange a support strike, but in three days, nothing can be negotiated or changed. The employer had no choice but to go to court to protect his interests. And what could be done so quickly in court? Instead, he was able to prohibit this support strike for the purpose of his initial legal protection. That is how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided, as I said. We were also talking about the world being different, the countries being different. There are also countries where support strikes are completely prohibited, only basic strikes are allowed. But we weren't interested in what countries they are or how and what. We found that the possibility of a subsidy strike in itself is certainly constitutional, but the current deadline is not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U100	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have at least one question. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U101	Thank you. I will follow on from the same knowledge as the Chancellor of Justice on my question. It is that the issue was almost resolved in 2006, but then suddenly it was blocked or blocked. Can you tell us what legal benefit is protected or sought by such an approach that the deadline for notifying the grant strike is as short as possible? Again, the question is the motivation why the introduction of a more reasonable deadline has been blocked. What legal benefit can it claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U102	Good questioner! I cannot answer that question because this law was passed in 1993, when I did not yet serve the country in this profession. The two paragraphs of Section 18 of the Act on collective labour dispute resolution, which has long been adopted, state yes for three days. It is stated that the period of notice of the grant strike is three days and that the grant strike itself may not last more than three days. But then, in 1993, the economic situation was different, the economic relationship was different. Maybe then they just thought three days was enough. But at present, it is not justified either from the point of view of workers or from the point of view of employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U103	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U104	I have a question I would gladly have asked the Chancellor of Justice, but since only one question was allowed, I will ask you, good Väino. The Chancellor of Justice will listen. The second topic that we raised in the spring was whether or not political strikes were allowed in Estonia. On the one hand, they are not permitted by law, but malicious interpretation has provided an opportunity to claim that they are not, in fact, prohibited either. Has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in cooperation with the Chancellor of Justice, or has it been discussed on its own, so that this issue could also be taken up and regulated unambiguously?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U105	A very correct suggestion, Mr Valdo! Yeah, why not? Then we could perhaps be done with the definition of a political strike and, in that case, the term could no longer be used with a light hand, without knowing whether it was a political strike or not. If the strike meets certain features, it's a political strike, and if it doesn't, it's not. Right now we have this undefined. I hope that the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu will take into account the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to support the Chancellor of Justice's position. If we vote like this together today, it will give us the opportunity to change the law. And why not look at it more widely than the Chancellor of Justice referred to here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U106	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U107	Good waitress! In general, Estonians or Estonians have not shown themselves to be particularly rebellious. It is true that from time to time certain interest groups try to organise a strike and, in order to achieve any result at all, they try all the time to organise some kind of support strike. Did the Commission experience the fear that our society will always be on some kind of support strike when a small group decides to strike as main strikers? Was it said in the Commission that it would suddenly be worth considering the practice of countries where support strikes are banned? In Estonia, there is this danger that there is always one support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U108	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss the views you raised within the framework of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. I admit that this proposal can be made when we start to amend the law on collective labour dispute resolution. But I believe I will express the opinion of all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when I assure you that, above all, we hope that the common sense of the workers who wish to strike will also be supported on the question of strikes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U109	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U110	Good waitress! One question that I also asked at the committee session was, unfortunately, missed. In the course of processing another bill, I learned that the provision of vital services was regulated by the Emergency Act. I also learned, however, that it only lists areas, not service providers. My question is: who will be subject to the restrictions on the support strike? Where is the list of such service providers or officials? Can airport cleaners, for example, carry out a grant strike on a longer notice basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U111	We must remove the collective labour dispute resolution law and the emergency law, which regulates the provision of vital services. One deals with the issue of strike and the other concerns the country's responsibilities to its country and its people in order to ensure vital services. From now on, it may be possible to set different time limits for the support strikes to be carried out in the field of vital services. This is a question of further discussion. As you know, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not deal so thoroughly with the matter, and it would be very difficult for me to say at the moment what the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could be on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U112	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U113	Good waitress! You didn't discuss the subject in the Commission, could you extend the deadline in the case of a basic strike? There are not many possibilities to extend the period of advance notice from three days to a week. In any event, this period shall be shorter than that laid down for the main strike. Is the notice period for the main strike sufficient? Did you discuss that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U114	That is a good question, but the Commission focused its attention only on the possible unconstitutionality of the three-day period for advance notice of the grant strike. So all this further happiness or accident can be decided in the process of amending this law if it is considered necessary to hold a discussion on other deadlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U115	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U116	Dear Väino Linde! Having heard the Chancellor of Justice's presentation and your presentation and the questions of the MPs, I have a proposal in the form of a question. Would you be willing to organise an event on strike law and collective labour law in a seminar on the initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? So that there is no doubt that anyone is trying to do something for their own benefit there could be invited by someone from the Ministry of Social Affairs, where there are definitely people who know what the ILO's right to strike is. They'd be conducting this seminar, but you could also invite the Chancellor of Justice's advisers. All of them would benefit from it. Would you be willing to organise such a seminar on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U117	As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I cannot issue disputes on behalf of the whole Commission, but I believe that if we have a written proposal, it will certainly be discussed by the Commission. Why not organise a seminar like this when it is considered necessary to discuss this subject in such a form? But I'm not giving up any bills right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U118	Good waitress, thank you for answering your questions and not giving up your bills. Let's go! Please ask Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 18 to bring Article 18 (3) of the Act on collective labour disputes into line with the Constitution at its meeting on 17 September this year. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the term of notice of three days in the collective labour dispute resolution act is not in accordance with the Constitution. The main reasons given by the Chancellor of Justice for his proposal were that the deadline for notifying the grant strike was clearly too short for companies, including providers of vital services, to be able to restructure their work to the extent strictly necessary. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, Head of Department I of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice Kärt Muller, Head of the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs Thea Treier and Head Specialist of the same department Mariliis Proos participated in the work. The Commission considered that the problem raised by the Chancellor of Justice existed and that the deadline for notifying the grant strike should be changed. The Commission also asked the Chancellor of Justice what the deadline would be. The Chancellor of Justice replied that this is of course the legislator to discuss and decide, but as he said here today in the Riigikogu, the deadline could be around one week. It's two weeks' notice on the main strike. The Social Affairs Committee formed its position on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and decided by consensus to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 18 to bring the collective labour dispute resolution Act § 18 (3) into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U120	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U121	This document itself, as well as the debate around it, is that the practice of collective working relationships is a little low, and so is the knowledge in this area. My colleague's question about political strikes was justified. International labour law speaks one thing and there are different laws in different countries. Neither can we arrange for a strike, for example, for the Riigikogu to be disbanded or for the Reform Party or the Centre Party to be banned. Such demands cannot be made in the form of a strike. However, when it comes to some legislative act discussed by the Riigikogu, this is the pension law, the unemployment insurance law, whatever, if someone feels that his rights have been violated by this law, the strike must not be banned on the basis of the principles of international labour law and must not be banned in democratic countries. This draft is a support strike, for which we also have practice from this year, including the last month. This is a strike in which support is given to people who are actually on strike. This was the case with the teacher strike announced by the trade union for educators and no one else. Others could only support it, it was to support teachers. I don't think there was anything wrong with the law that is currently in force. When the transport workers' union announced a subsidy strike, everyone found out in time and no one was disturbed by it. And it also happened that, for a long time, the railwaymen announced their support strike, but since their employer brought the case to court, people did not dare strike. Then who wants to participate in an event that could be illegal? Later, the dispute subsided, but the employer achieved his goal by threatening the court. The last support strike in the interests of Estonian workers was announced in Finland, where the port workers took a warning strike, according to my memory, four hours. The idea was to support the wish of Estonian port workers to conclude a collective agreement. But yes, when it comes to supporting others, there really are other deadlines. The strike is limited in length, it cannot be done for too long, and there is another notice period. There is also a clear logic here, because the main strike can sometimes occur within hours and there is no point in having a warning strike a week or two later when this basic strike is over. The saddest thing about this proposal is that if there was an agreement between the Estonian social partners that this deadline should be changed, I think it should be supported. But if it's forced on like this unilaterally, it's not right. And this is not right, in particular, because the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice has not understood what the real reason is. The real reason for this, which also worries us, is quite different. In particular, there should be a firm agreement on critical areas for services, which will also be ensured during the strike. At the moment, we are reading news about the strike of health professionals and it can be assumed that the Hospitals Association and the Health Care Workers' Trade Unions have, in principle, agreed between them on what these volumes must be. You can read what services are offered during the strike, which are not. The law requires that such agreements should be in every area, as employers and workers in particular know best how much services are essential. None of them are smarter than that. But our law also says that if these agreements do not exist and they do not exist, because they have not been concluded by anyone, then it is right to determine this volume by the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic has not done so in 20 years, and that is the real problem that should be addressed. If it is agreed on the extent to which the services will be completed in any event and this applies both to the main strike and to the grant strike, there is no difference between the three days or seven days' notice of the grant strike. This does not matter at all in this context. So the Chancellor of Justice and his office could instead deal with the question of why these minimum volumes, which we all need, are not guaranteed. Why are there no agreements? And if there are no agreements, why hasn't the Government of the Republic decided anything? This is more important! Whether a thing is known in advance for three days or seven days, is absolutely not important. In the hope that the law on collective labour relations will be updated in a reasonable way, i.e. with a nice agreement between employers' and employees' associations, I will certainly vote against this proposal. I don't see any contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U122	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U123	First of all, as an introduction, I intend to vote in favour of the proposal. In my opinion, it is well-founded that the deadline for advance notice of the grant strike is to be extended. In addition, I would like to correct some of the misconceptions that have occurred in this Chamber today. Talk about international labour law, for example. There is no such thing as international labour law. There is an ILO that has issued some conventions with which countries have either acceded or not. As regards the ILO conventions and the treatment of political strikes in them, some inaccuracies remain. Indeed, the ILO does not support political strikes in any way; it rather warns against them. It gives a very narrow exception to when a political strike could be taken: only if it is aimed directly at influencing work relations. However, the ILO, very clearly and specifically, warns about the political strike as a phenomenon and confirms that such strikes can contribute to the disruption of democracy rather than to strengthening it. As for the events in spring, I would like to remind you that one problem and the whole motivation for the development of the topic today was that the Estonian Confederation of Trade Unions declared a strike. This means that 17 members of the Confederation of Trade Unions who do not have a collective agreement, who did not have any labour dispute, who absolutely did not comply with the existing law on collective labour disputes, because this law does not really appeal to them at all, declared a basic strike and called on other trade unions to organise support strikes. Some trade unions did not realise that this was a slippery road and even announced a support strike in support of a strike by the union central union. Others realized that this was not happening and said that they supported teachers and anyone else who actually had the right to declare a basic strike and who did it. In order to avoid such situations in the future, I think the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should look at these problems a little more broadly, bearing in mind what has happened in Estonia. I am certainly going to vote in favour of this proposal, as has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U124	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Dear fellow Members, let us move to the preparation of the vote on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 18. Allow me to explain in a few words what I will put to the vote before we are put to the vote. I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Good fellows who are in favour of the Chancellor of Justice proposal? Please take a stand and vote. There are 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 11 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, in accordance with § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I task the Social Committee with initiating a draft to bring the collective labour dispute resolution law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. We have finished processing the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U125	We will move to the second item on the agenda, which is Opinion No 19 of the Chancellor of Justice on compliance with the Constitution in § 42 (4) (1) and (2) of the Product Compliance Act. First of all, let me introduce briefly the procedure resulting from the Articles 149 to 152 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, will report for up to 20 minutes. After that, Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and then the presentation of Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, will take up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After that there will be a round of negotiations in which all members of the Riigikogu can participate, and then we will vote on the proposal. The question is, like the previous item on the agenda: who is in favour of the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice? A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. It is a great honour for me to ask for a presentation by Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, Indrek Teder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members! § 42 (4) sentences 1 and 2 of the Product Compliance Act already mentioned also make standards mandatory, although it also lays down a general rule that standards are recommended. The unlawfulness of the Constitution lies in the fact that this provision makes it possible to make the standard compulsory. On this subject, I consider it necessary to stress that my proposal does not concern mandatory European Union standards. The proposal focuses only on those standards that are made mandatory by these provisions independently of European Union law. In order to make it easier to understand the fundamental question, I would like to highlight three aspects of the proposal which make this provision, in its current form, unconstitutional. I note, however, that each fact, taken separately, also shows that the rule is against the Constitution. I will start from the back of the proposal. First, point one: the problem of the competent body in establishing a mandatory standard. If a standard, a technical solution or procedure is introduced as mandatory, the problem of the competent body will inevitably arise. As is well known, by including § 3 (1) of the Constitution, it has been stressed that only legal provisions adopted by a body empowered by the Constitution to lay down general mandatory rules can be required to comply. The standard has not been established in accordance with either of the principles. There is a lack of proper procedures and a lack of a competent body. Secondly, the issue of the availability of a mandatory standard. The requirement to publish legislation is based on the rule of law. The publication of the norm is a prerequisite for the availability of the law and the state also has the obligation to ensure the availability of published laws. When a standard is introduced as mandatory, there is a practically insurmountable problem: how can the standard be made available by law? Standards are known to be protected by copyright and copies of them are subject to a fee. Therefore, the principle of access to the law has not been respected and is unlikely to be respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U127	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Please, good fellows, quiet in the hall! There's a noise in the hall, and it's distracting the audience and the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U128	Thirdly, I will go to the most important: the essence of the standard. The essence is and can be the standard recommended. The fact that the standard is recommended has also been emphasised by the Supreme Court in one of its decisions, pointing out that the objective of why the standard is established is mandatory is fully binding. Safety is an example. And there must be no concessions. However, there are many ways to reach the target and the standard is only one of the possible roads, although it is optimally the best technology at the level of development. In many cases, the objective to be achieved is either product safety, quality, which is a complex concept and may include safety, as well as measurementability or compatibility with infrastructure. Thus, by making compliance with one standard or another mandatory, the legislation sets out both legal aspects, such as safety as the objective and the road to achieving the objective. However, there may be other ways to achieve the objective set by the legislation. In light of the simplification, the standard reflects the optimal technology or process for achieving the objective of existing technological development levels. Consequently, it would be unconstitutional to exclude the possibility of other "technological" or "procedural" real roads. I stress the possibility of real roads. In saying this, I do not mean that the bar can be brought down as an example in the area of safety. After all, most of the standards are supposed to be indicative, but they are respected. The fact that the standard is essentially recommended does not mean that a person says that he does not simply want to follow the standard. I would like to stress that the standard is only one way to achieve the objective, and in theory there are other options. At the same time, I repeat once again: if anyone wished not to follow the standard, they would have to bear the full burden of proof, even in this case. If a person does not wish to comply with an indicative standard, he should demonstrate that he or she achieves the objective at an equivalent level to that of the standard. It can therefore be argued that, overall, the recommended standard is still factually binding. However, the fact of binding should not be treated as legally binding. There are an enormous number of things in the world that are factually binding on us, but it is not in the law. In conclusion, I note that, given the nature of the standard and the indicative way towards achieving the objective, the problems of availability of the above-mentioned competent body and mandatory standard have also been resolved. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U129	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I would like to ask Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U130	Good Riigikogu! Head of the sitting of the good Riigikogu! On 11 September, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed, as a second item on the agenda, the written proposal of the Chancellor of Justice currently under discussion, with the number 19 'Concerning the compliance with the Constitution of § 42 (4) of the Product Compliance Act. " We listened, as always, to the comments of the Chancellor of Justice on this proposal and asked him questions. Once again, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided, in a rare consensus, to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Indeed, it would be necessary to amend the product's compliance law in the manner proposed by the Chancellor of Justice. This law creates the possibility to provide for mandatory references to standards in legislation. As a result, a standard adopted by a private organisation and subject to copyright restrictions essentially acquires the power of law. However, the Chancellor of Justice also considered it necessary to state, as he said here today, that, in view of the freedom to conduct a business, the free society and also the principle of free self-realisation enshrined in the Constitution, people should be able to use a variety of ways and opportunities, even to ensure the safety of the product. However, compliance with the standard is voluntary, it cannot be compulsory, otherwise it might hinder creative thinking on some important economic development issues. There might be a better way. We also talked about the European Union. For example, since 2015, phone chargers should be the same. In general terms, it can be said that it is a standard, but it is actually a question of compatibility. The European Union lays down general rules for the compatibility of certain systems, and some European Union standards are mandatory for us under European Union law. All in all, I will say once again that the Chancellor of Justice seems to be right and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes to support his position and to change the law accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U131	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U132	Honourable waitress! Did the Commission discuss that, if this law was ever dealt with in this Riigikogu, did no one really have doubts in this process that perhaps these two sections could conflict with the Constitution? Is this a little fingernail that can happen on committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U133	Still, you might think it wasn't really a fingernail at the time. For example, the traffic law adopted some time ago also talks about some mandatory standard for vests, bicycle helmets and whatever. It may have tried to guide the free will of the people in a safe way. But yes, in my opinion, it is justified to amend this law. And that is the opinion of the whole Committee on Constitutional Affairs. How exactly should these provisions be written in the future, in which we will certainly be helped by ladies and gentlemen from the Committee on Economic Affairs to decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U134	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U135	Good waitress! I understand that this is a legal theoretic debate and a correction of the error. But to understand more broadly what it is, I ask you straight: what will change after this legislative change in practical life?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U136	The practical aim of ensuring the safety of the product is maintained and must be maintained. If there really is a mandatory safety requirement, it should be introduced into the law in the future, various other standards that can be used more easily by a builder or some product developer or machine industry, could be voluntary. But this would not preclude this product developer or builder from using other options, which may be more complex and more difficult, but more innovative. He should have that chance. The current code may not be able to read it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U137	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would now like to ask Mr Kallas, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice this Monday, 17 September. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts were invited with two officials. I am not going to read the explanations of the Chancellor of Justice again, but I will briefly address the debate that arose in the Commission. On the one hand, the question arose that if we change the Product Compliance Act, but the mandatory references are also in other laws, either it solves the situation or it should also amend the other laws. The Chancellor of Justice found that if we amend only this one law, it will eliminate the problem, but the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not agree, who claimed that the problem would still remain in the air, because in other laws these mandatory references might remain. The proposal was that they carry out a legal audit, search out all those laws that have a reference to the Product Compliance Act, and then fix it as a package. The discussion was also about whether there could be many legal disputes due to the loss of reference to the standard. The Chancellor of Justice thought it would not be, as factual binding remains, although there is no legal binding effect on these standards. In other words, it must still be possible to prove the objective that these standards pursue. However, for the conclusion of the debate, it was decided by consensus to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U139	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the vote on Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 19. Dear colleagues, before we vote, let me explain the voting procedure. As President, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Good fellows who are in favour of the Chancellor of Justice proposal? Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, in accordance with § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I task the Economic Commission with initiating a draft to bring the Product Compliance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U140	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 248 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I would like the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law 248 is entitled 'A draft law amending the National Pension Insurance Act and related to the amendment of other laws'. The aim is to address the problems encountered in determining public pensions, benefits and benefits, as well as the technical issues that have emerged from the implementation of the law. The draft provides in the State Pension Insurance Act for the regulation of witness testimony in order to prove retirement. It regulates the transfer of persons who have received an early retirement pension to another type of pension, provides a more favourable basis for calculating retirement age for persons who have become sick in their early childhood, complements the provisions on the payment of pensions under an external contract, introduces the use of population register data for certifying retirement age, amends the provisions concerning the controller of the register of public pension insurance and the register of public pension insurance. Now a little bit more specific about the changes. The bill also provides proof of pension entitlement with witnesses in the Committee on Pensions of the Social Insurance Institution. At present, the questioning of the Witnesses is pending only in court. The procedures for settling disputes are also harmonised and it is foreseen that all disputes will be settled by the dispute committee at the SKA. At present, disputes raised against the decisions of pension institutions are generally settled in pension committees of pension institutions. One change is the abolition of the name of the pension institution in the law, which is replaced by the name of the Social Insurance Institution. The bill regulates the transition from disability pension to early retirement if the person has already received an early retirement pension. Unfortunately, the current law does not provide for such an option. The Parental Benefits Act regulates the payment of parental benefit in the event of judicial punishment of the parent, in particular if the court condemns the person and punishes him with a real deprivation of liberty and the parent is in a detention facility with the child. In such a case, parental benefit shall be suspended during the period of deprivation of liberty. According to the draft, the Social Insurance Board shall publish the maximum amount of parental benefit for the following calendar year by 1 May of the calendar year at the latest. The methodology for calculating the upper limit shall not change. As we know, every year this calculated amount is confirmed by the Government of the Republic. In conclusion, the draft is extremely voluminous, as we have proposed to clarify and otherwise amend other laws governing the payment of pensions and benefits. We are pleased that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu considers it right to conclude the first reading of the draft. We hope that these legislative changes can reasonably quickly be resolved by the Riigikogu and the inaccuracies removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U142	Minister, thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U143	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This bill seeks to take away parental benefits for children who are in prison with their parents or with their mother or father. Can you tell me how many children are in prison in the Republic of Estonia today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U144	Over the years, there have been one or two cases per year where the parent has been in prison with the child while receiving parental benefit. There are not many of these cases, but it is reasonable and correct for reasons of legal clarity to have a clear legal regulation on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U145	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küti!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 248 discussions on the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 September this year, and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, Anni Tooma, Adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs, Liidia Soontak, Head of Pension Policy of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Katre Pall, Head of Social Security Policy. Hanno Pevkur made an overview of the draft law amending the National Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. As the overview here today was also comprehensive, I would rather focus on the issues that arose in the Commission. The draft law lays down rules on the provision of witnesses' statements to prove retirement status, regulates the transfer of persons who have received an early retirement pension to another type of pension, lays down the basis for calculating a more favourable retirement age for persons who have become sick in their early childhood to receive a disability pension, complements the provisions on the payment of a pension under an external contract, introduces the use of population register data for certifying retirement age, amends the provisions concerning the controller of the national pension insurance register and the national pension insurance register. As regards the parental benefit law, it clarifies the payment of parental benefit in the event of parental punishment, and the Social Affairs Committee had questions about this. It was examined why this amendment was necessary and how many people were affected. We were given explanations on this by both Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and Katre Pall. Katre Pall explained that the proposal for such a change had to be made by the Ministry of Justice, who in turn had been approached by Harku Prison. The proposal to introduce this change in the payment of parental benefit was justified by the fact that women and children in detention facilities are guaranteed maintenance, food and clothing there, nor does it coincide with the ideology of the payment of parental benefit in detention facilities. It was asked whether the prison social workers were aware of this proposal and were in agreement with it. Parents, however, also need to spend money in prison to support their children, and do they have enough money to support them? The answer was that this year there are three children in prison with their parent. This law applies to children under the age of 18 months, and this is how long parental benefit is paid. You can stay in prison with your parent until you are up to three years old. There were no further questions on this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Commission took four consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda at the plenary session on 19 September, to close the first reading, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 3 October and to appoint a rapporteur before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U147	Thank you very much. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 248 amendments on 3 October 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U148	We will move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this law is quite simple. More specifically, we propose to establish a legal basis for transferring the role of controller of the prescription centre from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The current law provides that the controller is the Ministry and the authorised processor the Health Insurance Fund. Given the nature of the work of the Recipient Centre, we propose that the law be amended so that, by transferring the role of the controller to the Health Insurance Fund, even the responsibility for the functioning of the system goes to an organisation that is also directly exposed to the data it collects. According to our understanding, the Health Insurance Fund has sufficient competence to ensure the functioning of the system and, if necessary, to respond promptly to problems. The transfer of the role of controller also excludes duplication of activities between the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund. If you look at the date of entry into force, we propose to the Riigikogu that it be 1 April 2013. Until then, as a controller, the Ministry has a valid contract with Elion Companies AS for the accommodation environment of the Recipe Centre. In addition to changing the role of the controller of the prescription centre, the draft also specifies the obligation for the pharmacy service provider to enter the information on the prescription issued on paper into the prescription centre immediately upon receipt of the prescription. The current law provides that data must be entered within three working days of receipt of the prescription, but such a long period of time has unfortunately led in some cases to false information being submitted to the prescription centre. The draft does not change the principle that data need not be entered immediately in the prescription centre if it is not possible to use the prescription centre for objective reasons. This provision shall enter into force one month after the date of publication in the Official Journal of the State, which should be sufficient for the pharmacy service providers to implement the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U150	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? Minister, there are no questions. Thank you! I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Yana Toomi, Vice Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U151	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs at its meeting on 10 September. a. There were hardly any questions, as the draft is simple and short. The only question related to how there will be the situation with regard to funding that the burden of administering the prescription will now be transferred to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The Minister reported that the Ministry of Social Affairs no longer bears these costs. They will be carried by the Health Insurance Fund. The daily accommodation and maintenance of servers, however, will be cheaper, as the Health Insurance Fund has hired and trained people who will take care of the server themselves. He doesn't have to buy a service from outside. At its meeting, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to present a draft for discussion at the plenary session on 19 September, to propose that the first reading be closed, that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 3 October 2012 and that Ms Toom as rapporteur. All four decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U152	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 257 amendments on 3 October 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U153	Let us move to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the Bill 262 of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Keit Pentus-Rosimitud, Minister of the Environment, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Republic and in place of the Minister for Agriculture, to present the draft Act on the ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty. Today, there was also a discussion of the international organisations to which Estonia belongs, and here is another draft law to ratify the Treaty establishing an important fund. Why has such a proposal come up, and why should we join another international organisation? Firstly, it is our Ministry of Agriculture's contribution to the achievement of Estonia's foreign policy objectives. Estonia must be able to react to changes in the world. Secondly, we see the need to be more closely linked to the more remote regions in order to ensure security. Examples include so-called food riots that destabilise the international situation in developing countries. This accession is certainly also important from the point of view of development cooperation. Development cooperation is one of the strands of foreign policy through which the country's global responsibility is also highlighted. Estonia has set its target that by 2015, our contribution to official development cooperation would be at least 0.17% of GNP, or gross national product, while the overall target of OECD countries is five times higher, i.e. 0.7%. Being a member of this fund would be one of the measures that would enable Estonia to implement official development aid, which would also contribute to achieving this target. In addition, Estonia has consistently studied how to help Estonian entrepreneurs enter new markets. Through the Fund, companies from different sectors would have the opportunity to participate in offers of goods, services and consultations launched for the implementation of the Fund's projects or programmes, which are open only to the members of the Fund. We believe that there is a wide range of experiences in Estonia and that the services and products of our companies could also be of interest to customers of global organisations. The global importance of agricultural aid has increased considerably, and in most of Estonia's development aid countries agriculture plays an important role in employment as well as in ensuring income. Estonia's experience and knowledge are certainly an excellent potential, which provides an opportunity to play a more important foreign economic policy role. We ourselves are an inspiring example for many partners, and the countries of destination have increasingly approached Estonia for help. This is, of course, positive. Another major reason for accession is to create opportunities for bi- and multilateral projects with a specific focus, where our Ministry of Agriculture sees the opportunity to have a say. We believe that many of the development challenges are most effective in solving them by pooling national knowledge and resources. The latter can be carried out most effectively through international organisations in order, among other things, to avoid duplication of activities and to ensure the contribution of each country to the area closest to it. The main content of our work is the transfer of reform experiences, which, for good reason, are most interested in the Eastern Partnership countries, but increasingly also the Balkan countries and Turkey. Good Riigikogu! The Ministry of Agriculture has planned an initial contribution of EUR 45000 to the 2012 budget. So there is a financial cover for this in the current budget. The financing of the Fund shall be effected by replenishing financial resources, which shall be decided as a general rule every three years, when the Board of the Fund may decide on the need to invite members to make additional contributions. Estonia, as a member of the Fund, would have the same opportunity to influence the size of the contributions. According to the forecasts of the Ministry of Agriculture, Estonia's annual additional contribution should remain in the same order of magnitude as the initial contribution. From next year, it is also planned to provide later contributions to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. There is also a plan to start active cooperation with its strategic partners in the framework of the Fund for the coming year. So, good Riigikogu, please support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U155	Dear Minister for the Environment, thank you. You have at least one question. Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U156	Dear Minister, What sector could businesses benefit from this merger? Who do you think has the opportunity for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U157	It's hard to predict. The question is where to draw the line. There are certainly many companies that could develop activities, especially in the Eastern Partnership target countries. But I think it's more of an appeal to everyone. There's no way to draw a very clear line and tell who specifically is fit to come and show interest. Well, I guess everyone's stuck in start-ups and entrepreneurship, and I think we have both start-ups and entrepreneurship in every sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U158	Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your presentation and your reply. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Rural Affairs Committee Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Development discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty at its meeting on 10 September. The draft was presented by the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, who was today replaced by the Minister of the Environment. Keit gave me a thorough overview, but I would like to sum up the draft once more. The purpose of the draft is to ratify the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty. The purpose of the Fund is to mobilise additional resources available to members on favourable terms for the development of agriculture. Estonia's contribution to the fund is 45000 euros, which is already in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for this year, and as we have heard, the necessary money is also planned for future periods. This does not lead to permanent large financial obligations for Estonia. At the same time, membership also gives Estonian entrepreneurs the opportunity to participate in the assistance provided if necessary. The Commission also asked which companies would benefit from it. The Minister for Agriculture replied that it is likely that companies in the IT sector in particular. The Commission was also asked about our financial contribution, which was already mentioned here. There was also an interest in who is currently part of this organization. The Minister of Agriculture replied that members are broadly divided into three groups: OECD countries which are the main payers; OPEC countries, including both payers and recipients, and the rest are mainly recipients. The committee decided by consensus to send the draft to the assembly for first reading on 19 September, to propose that the first reading be completed and to set the deadline for amendments ten working days, as provided for by the Riigikogu's law on the rules of procedure and the Rules of Procedure. The deadline for amendments is therefore 3 October at 6 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U160	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 262 amendments on 3 October at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U161	We are going to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Fisheries initiated by the Government of the Republic. Keit Pentus-Rosimannud, Minister of the Environment of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law deals with issues falling within the field of activity of the Ministry of the Environment. We want to clarify the provisions of the law already in force and bring it into line with European Union law. To sum up briefly the most important amendment to this bill, the content of the amendment is that the lives of chronic offenders in professional fisheries are getting bitterer and the penalties are tightening. If you support the draft law that we have tabled, there will be a so-called penalty point system for serious infringements of the fishing rules in the future, which means that for each infringement, penalty points will be entered on the fishing licence according to the level of infringement. The maximum penalty is that the fishing licence will be definitively revoked, i.e. it will no longer be possible to fish with this vessel. In the case of serious infringements, even 12 penalty points can be obtained at the same time, if fish are caught during a closed period, without permission and in addition do not comply with the orders of the inspectors. The fishing licence shall be definitively revoked when 90 penalty points have been obtained. This is one of the most important changes. The second important change is on a much more positive side. It should be a joy to all those who fish on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- or Pihkva. In particular, we propose that the current law be amended so that the permitted fishing capacity, i.e. the quota for fishing on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva, can be set at half a year. We have had a discussion with you in this debate, both during Question Time and in response to the question, and we will now come to you with such a proposal. If fishing is more evenly distributed over the year, this will help fishermen to secure slightly more stable fishing opportunities and a more stable income. Researchers on the basis of their recommendations to set specific catch limits have also based their recommendations on the assumption that catches will be spread evenly over the year, half of the quota being fished in the first half of the year and half in the second half of the year. This is another major change in this bill. There is also an amendment to the draft, according to which recreational fishing without a document certifying the right to fish or payment of a mobile payment for the right to fish for recreational purposes is still an infringement which leads to a fine but is no longer classified as a very serious infringement. Those infringements do not present a threat to resources such as fishing by prohibited means or in a prohibited place and at a time, resulting in infringements which are the most proportionate to a single claim for environmental damage. The draft also clarifies which fishing vessels must have a satellite tracking system. This system must be equipped with vessels fishing at sea under the fishing authorisation of a fishing vessel, but boats used for coastal fishing on the basis of a fisherman's fishing licence are not subject to this requirement as a result of a derogation from the European Union Regulation. The draft gives the Minister for the Environment the power to temporarily suspend fishing if we fail to meet the objectives of the European Union's fisheries policy, for example if some types of fish are caught more than permitted and the Commission is therefore closing the fishery. These are the major changes that this draft contains. I ask for the support of the members of the Riigikogu on this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U163	Minister, thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Please present Annely Akkermanni, member of the environmental committee of the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft on Monday, 10 September. We were briefed by Ain Finland. The Minister has already opened this draft thoroughly, and I will add a few aspects that the Minister did not mention. Within 60 days of the establishment of the fishing opportunities for the European Union, the Government may introduce a regulation on the annual catch authorised for fishing in the Baltic Sea by fishing vessel's fishing authorisation, by sea area and by county, and on the permanent population of the smaller islands with permanent residence by species of small islands caught both by fishing vessel's fishing authorisation and by fishermen's fishing licence. A few questions were raised in the Commission. The question was asked, for example, why the satellite system needs to be used only on larger fishing vessels. Ain Finland justified that there is no need to make the law stricter than the EU regulation. Small boats with no enclosed space are used for coastal fishing, the system may receive water and not function. They also asked where there was a limit to serious and other infringements. Perhaps it was not mentioned that the police authority would not only be granted the right of supervision to monitor compliance with the Fisheries Act. The committee decided that the Riigikogu Board would be invited to send the draft Fisheries Act to its first reading today, to conclude the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 3 October 2012 at 4 p.m. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U165	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 255 amendments on 3 October 2012 at 4 p.m. The first reading of the draft has been completed and the sixth item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U166	Let us move to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Economic and Monetary Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 2 March, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, which is called the Fiscal or Fiscal Stability Agreement, was signed by 25 Member States of the European Union, with the exception of the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. The main objective of the agreement is to strengthen budgetary discipline and the coordination of economic policies. Countries that have agreed to the agreement promise that the annual structural deficit of the budget will not exceed half a percent of GDP. The rule must be laid down at national level in a constitutional or other act binding on the annual budgetary process. In Estonia, the State Budget Act is suitable for this purpose. Member States still have the right to make policy choices within a balanced budget. Control of revenue and expenditure items shall not be transferred to the European Union. The agreement also provides for an obligation to reduce the level of excessive debt (more than 60% of GDP) and, in the event of non-compliance with this obligation, the excessive deficit procedure will be launched exactly as in the case of the budget deficit. An automatic correction mechanism shall be established which shall be triggered if the criteria are not met. The mechanism shall be determined by the Member State itself in accordance with the common principles underpinning the Commission's proposals. We are still developing these principles, and so is the European Commission. There is an important link between the contract and the ESM. Only those countries that have joined or at least started to enforce the Fiscal Stability Agreement will benefit from the assistance of the ESM. The agreement will enter into force on 1 January 2013, subject to ratification by at least 12 euro area countries. The budgetary balance rule must be fixed in national law within one year of its entry into force. The draft law on the state budget, which sets out the principles of the contract in our law, will be submitted to the Riigikogu in the first quarter of 2013. I would suggest that this could transform the State Budget Act into a State Financial Management Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U168	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the Soviet Union, too, the republics of the Union had their own budgets, the right to set priorities and to redefine something in the budget. Today, we too are left with this opportunity, but it is still, to a certain extent, a restriction on our financial freedom. Do you have any idea what further steps might be taken in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U170	Thank you. The comparison with the Soviet Union is certainly inappropriate. You brought this in vain. And it cannot be said that the Soviet Union's finances have ended well. Indeed, the sovereignty of the budget remains with the countries, but the rules that we have complied with voluntarily are now being established by agreement across Europe. This is extremely important to us, because it is precisely because of this loose set of rules that there is great distrust of Europe and the euro zone in the world, which discourages economic activity. Is there anything else coming? It is not excluded that some initiative, let's say, will enter a mature phase this autumn. Something will also be discussed by the Council in October. I'm not familiar with this agenda. However, the general direction is that when it comes to finance, macroeconomic policy, macroeconomic regulation and fiscal policy are subject to uniform rules. I don't see anything against it. We're only gonna win this. But in general, this structure seems more or less complete, the problem is only whether this system will be implemented forcefully. There are indications that perhaps some compromises will again be raised on the table in specific cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U171	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the structural deficit. Although this draft reduces the deficit from 1% to 0.5%, it is still a negative figure. Is it per se sustainable to allow Member States a negative structural deficit in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U173	I would point out that there was no structural deficit rule until now, the nominal deficit rule, which was set at 3% under the Maastricht Treaty. But this is an additional indicator that needs to be monitored. In nominal terms, the country may be in good shape, but hidden in deficit. We were in this situation at the time of the boom when we were hiding beyond our means. Cash flow, which is linked by all financial contracts, must also be monitored. In our case, for example, the money placed in Eesti Energia is very large and it links our reserves. Estonian Air is also very expensive. There is a lot of talk about the ESM here, but the most expensive thing for us is definitely Eesti Energia right now. On sustainability, I say so much that there is such an understanding that the state can also revive the economy at the expense of the future. That is why this compromise was reached. There are a number of influential countries in Europe that would prefer a looser monetary and fiscal policy. Well, that's what it says here to find a compromise with them. I say that we should never go into a structural minus because it does not help, especially for a small country. It's payback, it's not really a sustainable choice. The crisis has shown that all countries that have gone into structural deficits now have to regret this ex post because they are debt dependent and the interest rates on debt alone represent a very large part of their economy. That may be the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U174	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! It was mentioned here that two countries, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom, were excluded from this agreement. Can we briefly give an overview of what they had against this Treaty? Were they against any part of it or against the whole principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U176	Thank you. On the British side, I would say that this is a fundamental opposition to a great deal of what happens in continental Europe. The current government, in itself, does not think that budget discipline is necessary, but they do not want binding rules from outside. The current government has certainly worked hard on consolidation. I have no precise explanation for the Czechs. Well, as a crime, it worked back then. Even the British, who did not join this treaty, have been a little embarrassed to see whether they made a good choice. However, the Czech Republic is, as we know, one of the most Eurosceptic regions in Central Europe. It's complicated to explain, but I'm not a Czech expert. I do not think that they have very deep substantive reasons, to say the least, why stay out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U177	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It was only recently that we were happy to sit next to the British representative when we discussed economic policy issues, set ourselves on a picture, and said that we had common principles for organising things. This time is now behind us, and we have other thoughts. How far away, in a slightly transferred sense, can this agreement be the next possible agreement on the harmonisation of tax systems?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U179	Thank you. I'm saying it's a long way off. Tax systems are expected to be harmonised in terms of indirect taxes, but views on direct taxes are very different. Those who have gone on exponentially increasing taxation are, in fact, still facing problems. It is difficult to overcome this dependence, although it is clearly not good for the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U180	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will then talk about the draft law on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union 249. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its regular meeting on 11 September. a. As a representative of the initiator, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. With a few sentences, I'm going to give you some more general information about the bill. The draft will ratify the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, which aims to secure the economic basis of Economic and Monetary Union by adopting a rule to strengthen the budgetary discipline of the Member States by means of a fiscal agreement, to enhance the coordination of the economic policies of the Member States and to improve the governance of the euro area. I am talking about a couple of issues that were discussed in the Commission during the procedure on this draft. One topic was the writing of the budget balance rule into the basic law of the state budget. In presenting the draft, the Minister said that the proposed amendment should enter into force in 2013 and is currently preparing the draft at the Ministry of Finance. The draft will make the necessary changes to the basic law of the state budget. Just as in this Chamber, the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic were at issue in the Commission, which have not ratified the Treaty. They asked whether they would not be subject to the rules of the fiscal agreement. As a representative of the initiators of the draft act, the Minister provided information that they are subject to the Stability and Growth Pact and the European Union Treaties, but the fiscal treaty sanctions do not apply to these two countries. The Commission also addressed the issue of the automatic correction mechanism. We have received the answer that an automatic correction mechanism must be set up which will follow the criteria under European Union law, the medium-term budgetary objective or the adjustment path towards it. This mechanism should be activated automatically if it deviates from them. The mechanism shall be determined by the Member State, but on the basis of proposals from the European Commission and in accordance with common principles. This change in the automatic correction mechanism is under preparation at the Ministry of Finance. There was also a question of coercive mechanisms: what will happen if a Member State fails to comply with the agreement? The answer was that if the rules have not been introduced into national law (in Estonia we are currently dealing with it), the parties will refer the matter to the European Court of Justice on a proposal from the European Commission. If the rules are broken, then usually going to court will follow and fines will follow. The question in the Commission was that if a large number of countries already violate the criteria that will be approved by the countries, how they will behave in this situation or what will be done with these countries in the future. In response, it was said that most of these countries are already under the so-called procedure and that rules will be laid down that everyone must comply with. It must be agreed that debts will be reduced. This, too, will be stated in national law in the future. Here, too, sanctions are determined. There was also an interest in the difference between the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Agreement. The answer was that the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact are not set out in national law, but the rules of the Fiscal Treaty will be there. The new rules are much tougher. In this respect, the Minister gave an overview a few minutes ago that the structural deficit term, as such, would be introduced into law and the figures would also be very clearly set out. The committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 19 September, to close the first reading and to set 10 working days, or 3 October, at 6 p.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U182	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for submitting 249 amendments on 3 October 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U183	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As usual, this is a very good bill. The draft amends the Law of Obligations Act and aims to transpose into Estonian law Commission Directive 2011/90/EU of 14 November 2011 amending Part II of Annex I to Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council setting out additional assumptions for the calculation of the annual percentage rate of charge. The changes proposed by the draft act concern the calculation of the percentage of charge in consumer credit agreements. The percentage rate of charge shall be the total cost of the credit to the consumer expressed as an annual percentage of the amount of credit drawn up or the maximum amount of credit. This is an indicator aimed at providing information to the consumer on the total cost of the consumer credit agreement per year before the conclusion of the contract and at enabling the consumer to compare different consumer credit offers on the basis of their cost. The Consumer Credit Directive 2008/48/EC already establishes a regulation on the calculation of the APR. The new directive clarifies and complements the additional assumptions for the calculation of the percentage rate of charge for consumer credit when the parties do not yet know some of the parameters necessary for the calculation at the time of calculating the percentage rate of charge, such as the time when the credit was taken up, the duration of the contract, the amount of refunds or the time when they were made, etc. The general objective of the amendments is to ensure that there are clear additional assumptions for credit products of all kinds for the calculation of the percentage rate of charge. The existence of uniform and specified rules makes it possible to calculate the percentage rate of charge in a uniform and uniform manner. This means that all creditors do it in the same way in all 27 Member States of the European Union. A uniform calculation of the percentage rate of charge ensures that the percentage rate of charge is indeed comparable for the consumer, i.e. comparable indicators are compared. This will give the consumer a better chance of making a prudent decision on taking credit, which in turn means better consumer protection. The amendments concern in particular the additional terms and conditions of the percentage rate of charge applicable to credit cards. In the Estonian market, the changes proposed by the draft will affect, in particular, credit cards with a fixed refund and permanent credit cards. The draft specifies the use of the additional conditions for the calculation of the percentage rate of charge in the following aspects: It is specified that the duration of a one-year contract and the payment of the twelve equal repayments must be assumed for the purposes of calculating the percentage rate of charge, both in the case of open-ended consumer credit agreements and in the case of consumer credit agreements under which the credit is to be repaid within a certain period or after a certain period after which the credit may be re-used. It is also specified that, where the principal is to be repaid in full in one payment on each due date, the calculation of the percentage percentage shall be deemed to be used in the future and the reimbursement shall be made within one year. In addition, a new condition for determining the date of the adoption of the credit shall be created for the purposes of calculating the percentage rate of charge, if this is not yet known in the calculation of the percentage rate of charge. In such a case, the first drawdown shall be deemed to take place on the due date leading to the shortest period between the date of the drawdown and the date of the first repayment. New conditions are also created for the calculation of the percentage rate of charge for situations where the time or amount of reimbursement cannot be determined on the basis of the existing conditions. In particular, in such a case, it must be assumed that the repayment will take place on the date and on the terms and conditions indicated by the creditor. In addition to the amendments needed to transpose the Directive, the draft clarifies the meaning of repayment in order to address some of the interpretative problems encountered by creditors. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U185	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U186	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is the last sentence of your speech that I want to address in my question. This is not only the application of the directive, but an amendment has been introduced as a result of the lobby of the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations, which restricts consumers' rights. Why was it not limited to the directive and why it was introduced here, why was there no separate law on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U187	Thank you. Your question is certainly relevant. I am of the same opinion (this also follows from all the principles of good lawmaking) that, wherever possible, no such amendment to national law should be included when transposing the Euro Directives, which is very important or actually changing the direction of this draft. It's like sewing on a jacket on a button. It seems to me that this has not been done at the moment. It would just be rather strange to have a second draft to eliminate one interpretation problem. That's what the founders of the bill came from. I was still talking to officials this morning who confirmed that this had been their goal as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U188	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 266 amendments on 3 October 2012 at 4 p.m. The first reading of this draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U189	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U190	Thank you for this question. I saw that you've written a piece on the subject, or at least it was on the news. We have also received a letter on this subject from the Lilleküla Society. At least, on behalf of the authors of the bill, I dare say that this fear (this fear is expressed by the letter of the Lilleküla Society and also your question) in order for interest to be charged with additional delay, it seems to us unwarranted. It's a little unclear to us why this fear has arisen. However, we are willing to examine this issue carefully when dealing with the draft law. I believe that the Commission will also do this. If there is any basis for this fear, then there is certainly a need to seek a more consumer-friendly approach here. This is not anyone's lobbying, which would somehow have been in law by the creators of the law. I dare say that this is an amendment to the same section, § 416, and it is simply not practical to make a separate law for that purpose. That is what this consideration has been made about. But once again, if there is an alleged problem between you and the Lilleküla Society, I am absolutely sure that we will take the consumer's side on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U191	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U192	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Euro Directives are usually transposed without national additions. Can you explain how and at what stage of the procedure these additions came up here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U193	Thank you. You mentioned that many social organisations have fear, even though there should be no fear, because there is no danger here. How can you prove legally that there is no danger? Why, then, has this amendment not been agreed with the Consumer Protection Board, the Estonian Consumer Protection Association or many other institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U194	Thank you. As I said earlier, what is written in the black white text is the subject of discussion and evidence. This can also be discussed in the committee, and ultimately the legislator is a respected Riigikogu. All of this can be discussed in depth in the Commission. Once again, having spoken with the people of my ministry, I am convinced that the purpose of this bill is certainly not consumer hostility. It's a little incomprehensible to us where this problem came from. But when the questions are up, we have to explain. Perhaps'social organisations' have much to say if only one organisation, the Lilleküla Society, has sent us a letter about this, but that does not diminish the importance of answering this question. In any case, the answer must be given and the question must be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U195	Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U196	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In Estonia it is that sometimes everything that is not prohibited by law is allowed, and sometimes everything that is not permitted by law is prohibited. Can you tell me where this law says no interest on interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U197	You are referring again to this question, which we have already discussed. I believe that we can discuss this further in the Commission. I think the interpretation that Marika Tuus-Laul has used in her statements is not entirely correct. Indeed, there is no basis for this fear. But once again, in the Commission, all of this can be discussed. It's all in this very bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U198	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U199	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Eesti Pank announced that they did not have any comments on the draft, but the Association of Eesti Pank made its proposals on the draft. In this context, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, whether you can comment in any way on the different positions of Eesti Pank and the Estonian Banking Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U200	I find it very difficult to comment further on someone's position. After all, all the proposals that have been added are in the draft explanatory memorandum. If necessary, we can discuss them one by one in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U201	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This draft will be discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would rather share my fellow Members' concerns about the concept of repayment. Perhaps you will also speak briefly and in very clear language to the large hall, which will change in this sense of repayment. How is it now, and how will it be when this bill is passed as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U203	As I have explained to you, this is the same problem that your colleagues have raised. You must trust the colleagues in the committee, including Marika Tuus-Laul, with nothing left. This draft will be reviewed by the same committee. As I said, the people who wrote the text of the law do not understand where this fear comes from. But once again, all sides must be respected. If there are any questions, that is what the legislative process is for to get an answer to them. The legislator ultimately reviews the wording. I dare say that the activities of the Committee on Legal Affairs have never been sealed by political differences. The discussion of this bill certainly does not bear this seal either. We can discuss this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U204	Thank you very much. No further questions. Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U205	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its usual meeting on 10 September. Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere and advisers Carina Rikart and Linnar Liivamägi took part in the meeting. There was no Igor Gräzin. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, and Kristiina Koll, Adviser to the Department of Private Law, were present. The members of the committee were presented with the draft and the questions were answered. According to the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act, the Commission Directive amending Part II of Annex I to Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council setting out additional assumptions for the calculation of the annual percentage rate of charge is to be transposed into Estonian law. A few questions were already put to the previous speaker, and it was particularly acute where it is written in black in white that there is now no interest for late payment. I dare answer that myself. The minister didn't make a direct reference to the paragraph, I'll do it. The prohibition of late payment on interest is regulated by § 113 (6) of the Law of Obligations Act, which is not amended by this draft. Therefore, interest cannot continue to be charged for late payment. This paragraph, which is amended here, § 416, in connection with which a small question mark has arisen in the Lilleküla Society, some members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and perhaps some others, does not regulate the prohibition of late payment on interest, does not concern this issue. This section is amended, but it is not related to this issue. In that sense, fears are completely meaningless. But the Minister emphasised earlier, and we have also discussed this with Mrs Tuus-Laul, that we have nothing against it if it is further discussed in the committee and a consumer-friendly solution is reached. Indeed, no one's plot or lobbying is involved in this change. It is simply a question of harmonising the calculation of the percentage of charge. The second point you grabbed was the use of the words 'payments' and'repayments' that they are defined differently. In fact, the problems here have not been so much for the banks, but for borrowers who have interpreted these words in different ways, but in disputes they have always lost them. Now this mismatch will be eliminated and the common term'repayment' will be introduced. Its content is that a person who has debts must pay not only the principal but also the interest in order to prevent the contract from being interrupted. There used to be a little misunderstanding. Some people thought that if they paid back the principal but didn't pay interest, the contract couldn't be canceled. In fact, it's always been possible to do that. Now it's clearly written. This should avoid an uncomfortable situation for the borrower if he or she violates the contract without being aware of it. The Commission, as has been said, discussed the subject and adopted consensual decisions: to put this draft on the plenary agenda today, 19 September, to propose the completion of the first reading, to appoint Valdo Randpere as rapporteur, i.e. me, and, when the first reading is closed, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 3 October 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U206	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, this draft is, in general, a real implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Estonian legal area. This directive is a consumer protection objective. It is intended to ensure that when a person enters into a credit agreement, it is understood what obligation he assumes in the contract and that the consumer has a clear percentage rate of charge. However, in this draft, which applies a directive that protects consumers, as a result of the lobbying of the banking community, the Ministry has, in our opinion, hidden a diabolical and anti-consumer nuance which is so well hidden that it does not appear at first. The subjective amendment of the Estonian Banking Association and the Association of Estonian Leising Associations, which has no connection with the Directive, has been included in the draft. It appears from the third chapter of the explanatory memorandum that it is intended to impose retroactively a delay interest in favour of the creditor. With retroactive force, this change is because the consumer had a different understanding of this provision when concluding the contract. We consider this legislation to be contrary to the principle of legitimate expectations enshrined in the Constitution. The banking community's long-standing dream has been to claim interest in the event of late payment of interest. So far, the consumer credit agreement was only able to claim interest on the outstanding principal, since interest is generally an agreed payment for the use of the money by the consumer and ends with the termination of the contract, including the demand for repayment of the credit. We are confident that two interest rates cannot be charged at the same time, but there is a hidden possibility in the draft that there will be a possibility for the future to ask for interest on delay. Banking stakeholders consider that the concept of contribution is not unambiguous, it is not understood in the same way. It is now proposed to provide for repayment to cover both the principal and the interest, as well as the payment of other possible charges. I stress that charging interest for late interest is not in accordance with European Union law. The European Court of Justice has examined the directive on unfair terms in consumer contracts. It states that Member States must provide for adequate and effective means to put an end to unfair terms in contracts concluded with consumers by sellers or service providers. The Directive should therefore be interpreted as meaning that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of a Member State which are incompatible with it are negligible. It is clear that neither a banking union nor an association of leasing companies are interest groups representing the interests of consumers. In this sense, it is very strange that the proposal to amend the Law of Obligations Act in this way is not made in a separate draft, but in stealth, using the introduction of a European directive protecting consumers into Estonian law. We can really conclude that the government does not want its citizens ever to be freed from debt. Today, it seems that everything is being done to get people into debt even more. You can only imagine what happens to SMS loans, for example. First, interest, for example 200%, has been screamed, and then there will be interest for more interest! We believe that this is a lobby of banks and fast-lenders. The explanatory memorandum also does not refer to the analysis of the impact of the amendment, the number of debtors increasing, the proportionality of the change when looking at the relationship between 'consumer versus bank'. In fact, the interests of the banks are still protected here. It is also strange that the draft amendment has not been coordinated with the Consumer Protection Board, the Estonian Consumer Protection Association, the Financial Supervision Authority or the Competition Authority. We have learned that this was coordinated with consumer protection before this point was added.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U208	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U209	One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U210	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U211	Thank you. When I asked the Committee on Legal Affairs about the issue of late interest rates, we were convinced by the Counsellor of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice that there was no such problem in this draft. Let's see it from now on! One might ask whether the law is still being interpreted by the court in Estonia or whether it is being interpreted by a banking union and a union of leasing companies, supported by ministries and government. On the basis of the foregoing, the Centre Party Group will certainly propose an improvement. We very much hope that the Commission will take this into account. I do not think that we should agree in our decisions here in the Riigikogu with the business model of the banking community and its service and also against consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U212	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is again a very good draft, which amends quite a number of laws. The main objectives of the draft act are divided into two parts: amendments to the Commercial Code and related acts and amendments to the Land Book Act. Next, I will mention what will change in the Estonian legal order if this bill becomes a law. I will start with the major changes to the Commercial Code and related laws. As you can read in the explanatory memorandum, the introduction of new procedural software in the business register has led to changes in the part of the business register. The current business register software, with which the Court's Registry Departments regulations and entries have been made, has been written 14 years ago. As you can imagine, it has lived its time. It no longer meets today's security requirements. The new processing software will allow the full implementation of ISKE requirements for a high-security information system. The provisions on the paper register have also become obsolete and need to be adapted to suit the electronically kept register, which in turn reduces the administrative burden, accelerates the procedure and reduces the costs of keeping the register. The draft will also provide for the possibility for the registry departments to resolve entries from other departments and to make entries. This amendment will help to harmonise the workload of the registry departments. It has also made it easier to process applications for merger, division and transformation. While the registries departments are physically located in the same location and process the applications of operators in their area, the change can also lead to the division of the processing of applications into other sections of the register. The purpose of the amendment is not to make structural changes to the departments. The amendment does not affect the procedure for lodging an appeal, since under the Code of Civil Procedure, the appeal is decided by the court which issued the contested decision. The principle that the order is transmitted to the district court through the county court whose entry order is contested by the appeal remains valid. The processing of applications relating to mergers, divisions and reorganisations has also been amended. In general, several registrars had to resolve applications in the past. Under the amendment, applications are merged into one procedure and all applications are settled by one registrar. The order in which the entries are made does not change: first, the declarative, then the constitutive, and last, the deletion entry. Where necessary, the registrar of another area may make the necessary documents available to the registrar handling the applications by scanning and recording. I would also like to point out that the draft establishes, at the level of the law, the fees for accessing the data in the commercial register through the respective website. This means that the fees charged by the state for issuing the data entered in the commercial register are aligned with the requirement laid down in § 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which state taxes, charges, state fees, fines and compulsory insurance payments must be laid down in the Act. In view of the above, § 70 of the Commercial Code is specified as follows: The principle that access to data from the electronic business register, the register of non-profit organisations and foundations and the commercial pledge register is subject to a fee is clearly laid down. The rates shall be set by the Minister of Justice, which may be up to EUR 2 per query or object. The fee shall be exempt from payment by the person when he or she makes a request for himself or herself and when he or she makes a request for valid entry data. Legal persons governed by public law and other persons in need of information to carry out the public tasks provided for by law are also exempted from the payment of the fee. The person himself is also free of charge of access to the data entered in the registers, as well as to the data in force, which is not a substantive change. It is important to stress that access to the data resulting from the request will not be subject to a charge, except in the cases mentioned above where access to the data is possible without payment of a fee. So much for the changes to the business code. I also briefly stop at the amendments to the Land Book Act. As in the case of the registry departments mentioned above, the restriction on the real estate divisions, according to which the Real Estate Division may only keep a land register for properties located in its area of work, is removed. We believe that this will result in a reduction in the working and administrative burden on real estate departments. Two, three or four assistant judges are no longer required to deal with the application relating to a property located in several real estate areas, but only one. Secondly, the procedure for making entries and entry orders is specified. Legal clarity will be created, i.e. it will specify in which cases the regulation will have to be formalised and which will not be formalised. The current wording is not clear. The draft will specify this. Thirdly, at the level of the law, the fees for accessing the land register data will be established through the respective website. This means that the fees charged by the state for issuing the data entered in the land register are aligned with the requirement laid down in § 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. That's where I'm gonna end up. As the representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U214	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I ask for a co-report from Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Chair Committee on Legal Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 10 September. Marko Pomerants, chairman of the committee, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere, and advisers Carina Rikart and Linnar Liivamägi took part in the meeting. There was no Igor Gräzin. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, and councillors of the Legislative and Development Service, Berit Loog, Piret Saartee and Kristi Uibo were also invited. The draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws was presented to the members of the Commission and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. In particular, the Commission raised the question that, if this draft comes into force on 1 November, the time will be real. The members of the Committee on Legal Affairs received the reply that on the software side, 1 November is a completely real deadline, the software should be ready by then. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 19 September, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 3 October and to appoint Mr Kabrits as rapporteur. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U216	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for the adoption of the 258 amendments. a 3 October at 4 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U217	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Prisons Act, the Penal Code and the Penal Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is another good bill. As usual, I will attend my presentation first for the purpose of the bill. If you try to formulate it very briefly, you can say that the aim is to resolve the issues raised during the execution of imprisonment and in the organisation of the prison service. The amendment of the Penal Code is due to the need for better control of convicted persons subject to the supervision of the probation officer. The amendment of the Penal Care Act will correct the de facto regulation in the work of probation officers over time. The following is an overview of the main changes that are planned to be introduced into the legal order. The Penal Code is supplemented by cases where prison is required to refuse a short or long-term appointment of the prisoner. These cases are not currently laid down at the level of the law and are included in the internal rules of the prison as laid down in a ministerial regulation. However, since this is an issue concerning the rights of persons, it should be stated in the law. The draft also specifies which items are prohibited from being owned by the detainees. The possibility of applying an electronic surveillance device attached to the foot of the prisoner as an additional guarantee for the sentenced person to study and work out of prison shall be introduced. At present, all inmates in prison who carry a sentence have prison clothes. The draft provides for a regulation already in practice, according to which the prisoner wears personal clothing in ordinary prisons. In order to ensure the existence of different disciplinary sanctions, the list of disciplinary sanctions shall be supplemented by a new form of punishment, namely the prohibition of the use of personal radio, television or other electrical equipment necessary. The aim is to ensure better behaviour of detainees. The deadline of up to 45 days has been chosen analogously to the length of the penalty. The law will be supplemented by regulation on the detection of alcohol or drug use by the prisoner, which will be the same as the regulation of the Police and Border Guard Act. In order to reduce the police's workload in detecting the use of prohibited substances, it is reasonable to grant the right of inspection to the prison service as well. All the more so, the law on law enforcement, which has not yet entered into force, already provides for the possibility that the police or, in the case provided for by law, any other law enforcement body may, in the event of suspicion of a medical condition, check the presence of alcohol, narcotic or psychotropic substances or other intoxicating substances in a person's body. Inmates may also be tested with an indicator device. If the prisoner requires an evidenceal alcometer or blood test, he must pay for it himself if the analysis proves positive. The same regulation is imposed on probationers. The Prison Act is also supplemented by provisions allowing a prison service officer to respond to an offence that, although directed against the prison, is committed outside the borders of the prison. The most common example here is the case when a person tries to get prohibited articles into prison with the help of the so-called "surroundings." According to the amendment, prison officials would then also be able to detain this person by force, if necessary, and would have the right to detain him until he has been handed over to the police. In addition, the draft will make the background and health check of prison officers more specific and comprehensive. The background check will also be extended to support staff (e.g. cooks and cleaners) as well as to prison staff already in service and to the prison department of the Ministry of Justice in the future. The principles of health surveillance are made analogous to the health surveillance of police and border guards. The draft extends the scope for the provision of official support to the police. If, at the moment, only an armed unit can be used by the prison service in the form of official support, this option would extend to other prison officers and to the members of the prison department of the Ministry of Justice. The amendment aims at improving administrative cooperation and broadening the possibilities for cooperation between public authorities. In order to ensure that the victim has the right to information about the sentenced person's conduct of the sentence (e.g. taking up the sentence, executing the sentence, as well as the conduct of the probation procedure), the victim's right to be informed at any time by the prison. The Penal Care Act clarifies those provisions which give probation officers the right to verify compliance with the obligations imposed on the defendant by the court. For example, the court may determine that a convicted person should not consume alcohol during a behavioural check. In order to verify compliance with the prohibition and to ensure that the non-compliance with the prohibition is accompanied by a consequence, checks must be carried out on an ongoing basis. If the probationary refuses control, this is a failure to comply with the probationary's control, which is considered to be a breach of the control requirement. In any case, the probation worker will also have to apply for permission to leave his place of residence if he or she wishes to go abroad, regardless of the number of days. In the current law, a person does not have to ask for permission if he or she wishes to go abroad for a shorter period than 15 days. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U219	Thank you very much. Valdo Randpere has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U220	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I've read this bill, and I've also reviewed a little bit of the law in force. There has been such a change here that the perpetrators of an anti-state crime will have a restriction on communication outside prisons. This is a commendable idea in itself. At the same time, however, there are special subjects to whom the perpetrator of the anti-State crime could, in any case, meet. These are lawyers, notaries and clergymen, which are justified, but they also include a consular officer. I do not understand why the perpetrator should be able to meet with a consular officer. Is it a finger or is that the will and the request of the legislator?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U221	Thank you. This bill contains a regulation imposing certain restrictions on convicted persons for crimes against the state. I think it's appropriate. It can be debated in the Commission and elsewhere as to what these restrictions should be. The procedure for imposing these restrictions is very clear. You also briefly touched on this issue in the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is, in my opinion, a quite appropriate question. I looked it up. The prison law lacks the words 'your country' in certain places. Everyone understands that it would be extremely odd if someone betrayed the Estonian state and then met the consular officer of the country for whom he did so without any supervision. That would indeed be a mistake for the legislator. In any case, the wording must be clarified. I think that the draft must correct it; it must include the words'my country' to make the picture clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U222	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U223	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I don't mind this bill, I just want to ask you for self-esteem. The prisoner is forbidden to own and consume all kinds of drugs, alcohol, etc. But what about tobacco products? Don't you think they're among the drugs? In addition, I ask how you view cheek tobacco alongside cigarettes, pipe, and cigars.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U224	Thank you. As a doctor, I think you are saying that tobacco is generally the kind of stuff whose purposeful consumption will inevitably lead to certain results. The results are not positive for the individual, for the medical system or for the rest of the taxpayers. In prisons, smoking has actually been restricted for many years, much sooner than I became Minister of Justice. Let us say that there is also a clear and substantial correlation: if prisons are to be subjected to more stringent procedures for compliance with tobacco restrictions, there will be an immediate increase in the number of complaints. These restrictions are already very significant, there are certain boxes for smoking and cigarettes are in a separate closet. It is no longer the case that everyone has a pack of cigarettes on the table and in their pockets, and there is a huge trade. This should be over a long time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U225	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U226	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I will present you with an overview of the session of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, which discussed the same issue as the Minister has already told you, i.e. the draft law amending the Prison Act, the Penal Care Act and the Penal Code 264. The sitting was held on 10 September 2012. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, with the exception of Igor Gräzin, were present. Carina Rikart and Linnar Liivamägi were present from the councillors. Minister Kristen Michal, Minister's Adviser Madis Timpson and Adviser Einar Hillep to the Criminal Law and Procedure Service of the Ministry of Justice were also present. The Minister has already reported what this law is. In fact, this law is necessary to bring the laws broadly into line with real life. After all, imprisonment and probation move in exactly the same way as other legal relationships in time and space. What did the Commission say? Mr Randpere asked the same question in essence: why is the consular representative on the list of persons with whom contacts are not allowed to be eavesdropped? Like my good colleague Valdo, I made myself a little bit more clear. It is not even the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. It provides that a consular officer may freely communicate with a national of the sending State, who is, for example, under arrest or in custody, and have access to him, but at least in Article 36, there is no international rule that this should take place in full private. I think we could discuss this seriously next time in the Committee on Legal Affairs. My colleague Laane asked if there is such a restriction in any of our nearest countries. A representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that such a restriction exists in Great Britain. My colleague Neeme Suur asked whether laying down the requirements for the physical preparation of a prison service officer would not lead to changes in staff in detention facilities. When this law is passed, detention facilities will be subject to essentially the same requirements as police and border guards. Mr Big was just interested in whether this change concerns support service officials. We have come to the understanding that this point should also be clarified in the future procedure. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, asked about the release grant, which the draft law specifies. At present, the bill is confusing as to whether it is paid only to those arrested when they have been released, or to those who have been in remand. The bill makes a clear distinction here. For the sake of clarity, the draft clarifies only the issues relating to the release from remanding. After the debate in the committee, it was decided to consensually refer the draft law to the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 3 October. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-19_U227	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 264 amendments on 3 October 2012 at 4 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete. Together with this, the items on today's agenda have been closed. I wish everyone a beautiful evening. Closure of the sitting at 4:43 p.m.
