ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the IV session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U2	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates the Act on the Bar Association and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, We are sending an inquiry to our esteemed Minister for the Environment, Mrs Keit Pentus-Rosimitud, signed by 11 members of the Central Party Group. The topic of inquiry is related to the fire on the largest half-coke hill in the Baltics. In the spring of this year, the first signs that Kohtla-Järve's half-coke hill was burning on fire, the first burning crater appeared on the side of the hill. During the summer, a severe fire on the half-coke hill was signaled by a strong sulfur scent rising into the air. In addition to the residents, the construction company that works for the closure of the mountain is also concerned about the fire. Because of the fire, the condition of the mountain is so unstable that the construction companies no longer dare to send their technology to the mountain because the collapses are unpredictable. In this regard, we have seven questions for the Minister, which we would like to have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the bill complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on the procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the Estonian Centre Party Group. a draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act, initiated on 12 September 2004. The Governing Commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Secondly, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, launched on 13 September. The Steering Committee is the Committee on Culture. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the communication from the European Commission on the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement on the implementation of the European Earth Observation Programme (GMES) for the period 2014 to 2020 20 0 on the Commission for European Union Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 27 September at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10. We can go to the adoption of the agenda, but there is one addition. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party asks that today's agenda item No 4, namely the members of the Riigikogu Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Olga Sõtnik, Valeri Korbi and Yana Toomi, be removed from the agenda on 13 June. a request for information on school textbooks submitted (No 180). With this addition, I shall put the weekly agenda to the vote. Please vote! 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U6	Let us begin the debate on today's agenda items. First, members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Eldar Efendijev, Ester Tuiksoo, Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Kalev Kallo, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toomi on 11 June. Reporting on the future of the euro area (No 179) I would like to ask my colleague Kadri Samson of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. An inquiry into the future of the euro area was handed over to the Riigikogu in June this year. As you can note, it has been handed over before our Minister of Finance managed to say in the summer that very many decisions on the stability of the euro are quick, confidential and foreign languages and the Riigikogu has no role in them. Later on, we have reached an opinion on this statement in the various committees: to make it more visible and to protect Estonia's interests in the euro area better, the dangers of the euro zone must be discussed here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and you can discuss more. Therefore, this inquiry is very appropriate so that the Minister of Finance can explain current developments to members of the Riigikogu. As we know, the European Union was initially an economic and political union involving European countries, but over time the Union's role in financial matters has increased. As a result, a number of agreements have been concluded. In 1998, 11 European countries agreed on the conditions for adopting the single currency and introduced the euro in 1999 in cashless transactions. During the European debt crisis, it has become clear that the Maastricht criteria alone have not been sufficient to help shape public finances. It is true that a large number of countries do not comply with all the Maastricht criteria, but the European Commission nevertheless wants to push the euro area Member States further within the limits of the euro criteria. He has come up with a number of opinions on how to intervene in national budget planning or punish them by freezing Structural Funds money. In June of this year, Jean-Claude Trichet put forward the idea of creating a European Union Ministry of Finance. We all noticed that last week, in his annual speech, Mr Barroso came up with a proposal to consider the idea of a European Federation. We have five questions for the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, in connection with the rapid developments in which more and more competences are being handed over to the European Union. I am not going to read them one by one, because it will probably be easier for the Minister to answer if he himself reads the questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Please respond to the speaker, dear Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for asking me this question. I must also say right now that I cannot limit myself to the issues that are expected to be read out of me, because such enquiries are always preceded by a number of comments showing their attitude towards questionable and government. I have to answer them. First of all, about what I said on the remote. I didn't have to regret any of them. I must say that when I spoke about fast, confidential and foreign-language matters regarding the ESM and the fact that the role of the Riigikogu plenary is very difficult to find here, the Riigikogu did not find this role despite long efforts. These amendments, which were of different quality, also did not provide a solution for the plenary of the Riigikogu to discuss documents that are very technical and foreign languages, to do so very quickly and in a short time, which the nature of such decisions necessitated, however, remains unresolved at all. Language issues remained unresolved at the time of ratification, but efforts were made to increase the role of the House. Was it then increased? In fact, it was not increased because it remained so that confidential matters would not be brought to the attention of the House, which was a very sensible decision. But speed and confidentiality are totally coincident criteria. These things, which are confidential, are always urgent in our knowledge. So it's futile to make accusations. The second thing that came out of the comments of the introduction was that the Maastricht criteria were not enough, and then again it was said that countries would now be pushed into the Maastricht framework. That is, in any case, a controversial point of view. Let's say we all know that these criteria have not been enough. First of all, Maastricht criteria are criteria for entry into the euro area at all, not criteria for being there. The fact that the Stability and Growth Pact has the same numbers does not mean that it is right to talk specifically about the Maastricht criteria, but all right. To characterise them, it must be said that these are very weak criteria, that they have not been consistently verified and that the great lesson of the crisis is that, on the one hand, these numbers must be tightened up and, on the other hand, that the treatment of those who do not follow these and even tougher numbers must be tightened up. But let's try to answer questions in turn. The first question: 'What is your assessment of the creation of a euro area finance ministry? Could this help to prevent such a crisis from happening again in the future? 'It's not like there's anything more specific about this than the word. As I said at the beginning, European finances have had to be thoroughly rebuilt. We, personally, have been a fiery proponent of this, a proponent of stricter rules and stricter enforcement. I do not know whether anyone will be called the European Minister of Finance in the future. I can't tell you what the farthest part of this statement is. I do not know what kind of relationship such an official could have with a European Commissioner for Finance, who clearly has functions. I cannot tell you whether the European Minister for Finance, in the view of the person who uses this word, could have an analogy with the Minister for Finance of an average country whose ampluaa is much wider, covers a number of Commissioners' ampluaade. So I don't know how to judge this institutional side either way or the other way. I don't know what its contents are and if it's gonna happen. In any case, we have redesigned and I have been fortunate enough to participate in this framework of European fiscal and macroeconomic policy as a whole, so that budgetary issues and macro-economic imbalances do not hit people's well-being and the future of Europe. But this fall, it might get more precise content. It is known that the October Council is discussing new proposals in this area, and perhaps there is something that the finance ministers do not yet know. In general, we are the preparatory bodies of these Councils, but sometimes it turns out that the Heads of State also add something unexpected to the current process. The second question: 'How could the creation of Eurobonds affect Estonia's situation? ' I am saying that I am very critical of Eurobonds, as you obviously understand it, i.e. debt-sharing and raising money through a common bond. I do not see the possibility that such an instrument would be acceptable in the near future, because if lending is going to be cheap, building on credible economic policies in individual countries, the incentives of those countries that would like to borrow the most will weaken and, in any case, be tempted, there will be pressure on other countries, the European Commission, so that these rules are more relaxed. By creating this instrument, we know we're tempting. We do not know whether its use can be linked to the introduction of stricter conditions for countries that need strict conditions centrally, because we have set our conditions on a voluntary basis. The third question: 'How much of these issues will be discussed at all euro area finance ministers' meetings, or rather have these decisions already been agreed by the major powers? ' I don't know exactly what questions we're talking about now. However, as I mentioned earlier, there are generally no surprises for finance ministers. We're still working on the projects. This does not mean that different countries, different authorities, are not surprising in their initiatives, but projects are still being worked out in working groups, in meetings of finance ministers. Even if such an agreement or declaration is made in the Council, it will be sufficiently general, and its content will still remain in the hands of working groups and finance ministers. That has been the case so far. We are certainly not out of the question, and that is only good. In general, finance ministers are more practical people than politicians on average. And we don't improvise there either. We are based on what outlines have given to our actions by governments and parliaments. After each meeting, we will meet at ELAK, and ELAK has done its role well so far. In general, he is familiar with matters and asks practical questions. I suppose there are also the members of the ELAK who know and can confirm this. Question 4: 'How many have you had the opportunity to defend Estonia's views at a meeting of euro area finance ministers? ' Have I had the opportunity to defend Estonia's views? I don't know how to put myself and my country in a defensive position. Who am I supposed to protect them from? In this key, I would not want to deal with Estonia's relations with Europe, that we have some very separate interests and positions somewhere, and then someone is attacking them and someone is harassing us. The reality is, however, that we have been confirmed in practice, and also in theory, that a strong and well-organized Europe is in our interests. All of us who work together at European level know this. If we discuss this more excitingly, we could look for places where there are contradictions between our positions and those of Europe. There are not many such clear contradictions. I don't want to give a lot of this example, but the key to the ESM, for example. There, however, the battle was quite alone, without clear back and recommendation from home, and without understanding among finance ministers, we got our ESM key smaller. But I can't say that it was now a hundred percent pure struggle or victory of justice, because the other side also had its arguments. Why was the central bank key used in the beginning? The key to the central bank is to our advantage and, as we were rightly told, how do we suddenly want a different key in the ESM? Well, we did, but there were arguments. Still, the way in which'money printing' or the sharing of monetary income is one arises relatively easily, but to sum up taxpayers' money in a common boiler proportionally more than is part of GDP, it is a strong effort. I think it was one of the few examples where there was, more or less, a conflict between the interests of Estonia and those of the general public. But it is not good to have many such battles because they are sometimes transferred to other disputes. Luckily, there haven't been many. But speaking of a fresh impression, how would you define my behavior at last week's Friday and Saturday meeting? Three times these views were expressed. Where, then, is the interest in Estonia and where is the contradiction? One of my speeches concerned the statement by the ESM, which was requested of the Germans by the German court, i.e. that a statement is needed to say that what is stated in the ESM Treaty is written there. The German minister said that this is actually a ridiculous debate, but let us do it if the court demands it. My point of view, as I said, was that, listen, it is a little problematic when we say only about Germany. It is clear that this is an over-perpetuation of the agreed thing. We should not give the impression that this is merely a confirmation of Germany's views, but a confirmation of everyone's views. Whether there was a European interest or an Estonian interest here, I do not know. However, I do remember how you, the honorable waitress of this inquiry, made the comment on Wednesday, September 12, that the decision of the German court was a real example of how one country defends its interests. I don't know what you meant by that. So was the government defending or the Constitutional Court defending the interests of the state, or what was it like? In fact, only elementary things were confirmed. As far as this decision is concerned, there was no discovery or change compared to what is already known and agreed, so that only the parliaments can increase the state's responsibilities. There was nothing German or unexpected here. Exactly the same thing I have said in both the Supreme Court and the Riigikogu and convinced the Eurosceptics that there is no such thing that unexpectedly some higher demands than agreed ones will come in, which Parliament has not given its approval. I must admit that for a long time, we were also divided here with the Chancellor of Justice, who argued otherwise or was given such advice, let us say so. What else? Perhaps a more egotistical speech was when I told my colleagues about the entry into force of the ESM, in order to see, this is getting more and more complicated. Countries with a lower standard of living do not accept that conditions are being relaxed for countries with a higher standard of living, etc. Is my time limited?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U10	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U11	Ask me more then, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U12	Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U13	Thank you. I wanted to ask you about the last question you didn't get to. I'll ask you, then you can answer it. It is likely that the infamous Barroso speech is mentioned here today, but I am asking about something else entirely. Important officials in Europe are, as we know, preparing an institutional reform agenda. What changes would your position as Minister of Finance need to be introduced into the treaties of the European Union? Have you discussed these issues in the government yet? What is your position: are these changes so extensive that a referendum should be held in Estonia, referring here to our Supreme Court's decision that the mandate of the people in European Union matters is being exhausted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U14	Thank you. Whether he's exhausted or not, here I could also argue against, because there was no real reason to make such an assessment with regard to the ESM. This was an over-substantiated assessment, because the ESM does not change anything in principle. Of course, if someone thought that the only way to go to the European Union is to get the money and do nothing on their own, these people will be disappointed. But we have had a European referendum, we have had the knowledge that the European Union is a changing target, at the time a 'changing goal' was used. He's not ready for the thing, he's changing. The fact that as wealth grew, the state's stakes tend to increase, the people knew when he voted. We have had parliamentary elections, we have had the mandates granted by the Riigikogu, we have had a number of parliamentary debates. We have a constitution that prohibits referendums on external agreements and budgets. It's all in place. So I say that there is no risk that the nature of the European Union is changing with regard to the ESM or current decisions. As far as new initiatives are concerned, let us see what an important man will eventually put on paper or raise up. There's nothing like that officially right now. Whatever word someone uses in the European Union blows, whether it is greater federalism or whatever, it still needs to be furnished. Right now, it doesn't mean much. Finance ministers mean precisely what we have approved in very different documents, whose names are the so-called 6-pack, the 2-pack, the fiscal agreement. The whole European fiscal and macroeconomic framework is a new one, and that is exactly how we treat it. In addition, as a small solution, not as a universal solution, but simply as one of the supporting instruments EFSF and ESM, it all fits our vision. If I were to see development, it would be tougher rules and stronger apolitical sanctions, because we really need our economic environment to behave sensibly, not to go into more debt and not to stifle economic growth, economic development in general. I think we have discussed this with you in the Committee on European Union Affairs sufficiently, agreed on the positions of the government, or, say, coordinated, that is the exact wording. There's no big surprise, there's no qualitative change on the table right now. If it gets on the table and the mandate given by the people really wears off, then it needs to be renewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U15	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U16	Thank you. Honourable performer! I would like to refer once again to the decision of the German Constitutional Court. We saw that the court still imposed certain limits on the wealthy German state in terms of financial resources, so-called special conditions. If we look at Estonia now, you said that we too have restrictions ahead, that Parliament can confirm the next amount, but we know that it is quite easy to get these votes together here. Shouldn't we, as such a small, small country, have brought out more of the interests of our own people? Can it be said, however, that the European interest is fully equivalent to Estonia's interest? Perhaps the conditions of our small country should be taken into account in particular, after all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U17	Thank you. I don't know any news from the German court that would have changed what we've seen before. The only thing was that one particular paragraph had to be confirmed declaratively, it is now in the air, as I said. This is because if someone fails to fulfil their obligations, is it the case that the whole of the ESM and other countries will be subject to increasing responsibilities? We had never thought of it that way, and I said the same thing at the Supreme Court in May. I find it hard to understand why such a doubt arose. If State A fails to fulfil its obligations, this does not mean that the obligations of State B go beyond those of Parliament. It wasn't possible for me to interpret it any differently, but just in case, the German court said, "Hey, say it over." Well, we overdid it. The German court has not imposed any financial constraints on Germany. As far as I can tell, it was actually an 'initial law enforcement' in quotes, I'm not necessarily terminologically correct here. He confirmed the basic thing that I have been saying all along: beyond the mandate given by Parliament, the responsibilities of the state cannot grow. That's always been the case. Whether Estonia's interests were or not, I replied to that question. And basically, our Supreme Court decision was that yes, it limits sovereignty, the sovereignty of the Riigikogu budget, or exactly how that word was, but it is necessary. I would have left this beginning a different one. My deep conviction is that it creates more opportunities for the Riigikogu and the state when it comes to the ESM. If the ESM is effective, however, there are already clear indications that it is, then the state's finances will improve, the losses will be minimised. Collective risk mitigation is much cheaper than the efforts of everyone. And how do you even do that if the outside environment gets worse? What freedom is it if nothing depends on you? This does not seem to me to be freedom, and it also applies to financial freedom. If you only take note of what happens elsewhere and do not intervene, it is not, in my opinion, a sovereignty of any kind. But, well, when the law scientists had all worked through the sentences exactly in black white, that's how they understood it. I speak a bit more free language and say that Estonia's opportunities were not limited, but expanded. The risk of our economy falling into the black scenario has been greatly reduced, so the likelihood of new cuts and concessions has also been significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U18	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have a question about the future of the euro area. Some euro area countries, such as our northern neighbour, have been seriously discussing the so-called Plan B: to step out of the euro zone when there is a threat to X.I have a question with several sides. Have our northern neighbours, for example, discussed the dangers that we have not discussed? The other part of the question relates to the fact that maybe we are dealing with this plan B, too, in the event of an X situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U20	Thank you. It is such a popular and tempting talk that Plan B and situation X. But I can assure you that our northern neighbours have not discussed leaving the euro zone. Officials and wives who have allowed themselves to say such things have had to repent and ease them. These alleviations have also been repeated over and over again in the international press that you see, said, but look what came out. Alexander Stubb, former Finnish Minister for Foreign and Modern Euro Affairs, has been one of the strongest opponents. He has confirmed that Finland has a place in the euro zone. Similarly, Jyrki Katainen does not allow such attitudes to reproduce. And further on with the northern neighbours, my good colleague, I could say, Olli Rehn, the Commissioner for Finance, has spoken strongly in Finland that you can see that Finland has received such a sign that it is anti-Euro-poverty and is poor in cooperation. It's their inner story, I don't confirm it, but it's their own sense that they've cut their fingers with sayings like that. They haven't even thought of it the way it turns out. But the impression worries them. Although I cannot say that Finland is discussing something that Estonia will not discuss, this is plan B or C.Riske we are discussing, but there is no point in creating public speculation on the subject that we would be better off outside the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U21	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U22	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, thank you! Dear Minister, I believe that, as a country of the euro area itself, it is very important to us that the stability and credibility of the euro area be as great as possible. And in recent times, when we listen to the statements of specialists, the credibility of the euro area and the euro has increased rather than diminished. I believe that the well-being of each currency depends primarily on its credibility. I guess all the partners are working to make sure he's more and more reliable. If we analyse the last words of the President of the European Commission on the move towards the United States, there is certainly no small share of financial policy here. What can be the next steps to build credibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U23	Thank you. I may not have been able to pinpoint this reasoning precisely, but speaking of the words of the President of the European Commission, I suggest reading the last Economist. I believe this was the part where I read what the context of these sayings is. They don't say very much about the essence, but... Oh, if I could have watched exactly where you wanted to go. If you'd repeat the end of the question, maybe I could get a better idea of the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U24	Please, Mr Jüri, ask the end again!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U25	Thank you very much, President of the Riigikogu, for making such an exception! There is no provision for this possibility, but if the President of the sitting allows it, thank you. My question is: what are the next steps in creating the credibility of the euro area? If we say that the ESM is now basically done and enters into force, what could be these steps? Is this the path that the President of the Commission hinted at, or do you see any other solutions on the part of the finance ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U26	It's much clearer now. If you say it twice, the Minister will remember it. Thoughts were a little distracted. Mr Barroso spoke of a federal Europe, or what the exact word was, these words have been read in a so-and-so manner. But he didn't say anything new. We cannot deny that in certain areas centralisation is beneficial for the countries either. Finance is the brightest example, but also many things related to the internal market and competition. There are vivid examples of how a unified thing is the best thing to do and where it would be good for the economy if everyone behaved the same way. Next steps? This framework has only just been completed and has only just begun to enter into force. The most critical question is how implementation is going. There are such political retreats, the blocking of decisions by the Commission as an apolitical body, the avoidance of sanctions, the forgiveness of such playgrounds are within this whole system. Understandably, all countries want to keep their own space of sovereignty. We don't know what practice will be. I hope that credibility will be confirmed by the unflagging implementation of what has been agreed. This may be the most important thing. When I think a little bit forward, if there's any innovations coming up, I guess I tried to say before that there's nothing very specific on the table. We can work this deal out effectively, and what we can deny there is a good way to do it! The world needs to be convinced that the euro area has repaired itself and is no longer giving in, as happened with the agreement of the great powers in 2003 and 2004.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U27	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U28	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! You just said you're against buying back the bonds that the central bank is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U29	No, I didn't. Today I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U30	You don't want to buy back bonds. As is known, the German Bundestag has called on the head of the European Central Bank to report to avoid the buy-back of bonds. How can we defend our position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U31	Thank you. However, in an inquiry that I assume you have also signed, we are talking about Eurobonds, not about buying bonds on the secondary market or, by far, not on the primary market. Now, speaking of calling Mario Draghi to the Bundestag, why not? Think of it in this direction, perhaps you want to try to see if it will come to the Estonian Parliament as well. I am not quite sure what will happen if all 17 countries want to make him accountable to Parliament, because in general, there is a critical issue for the central bank that it needs to be free of political pressure. I do not believe that Parliament's procedure is already addictive. But what do I think of that? I think it is a great shame that the Governor of the German Central Bank was left entirely alone there in criticism of Mario Draghi's plan. I regret this because the German Minister of Finance will never be alone at a finance event, just as Estonia has never been left alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U32	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U33	Thank you very much. Jürgen, as a supporter of the European Union and as a supporter of this zone, I have a small remark before the question of giving and receiving it. You're stressing that we didn't go to the European Union just to get it. It's quite true. But I think there is a very big difference, you, as a liberal, should understand whether one support is for a project or action or whether it's for paying off stupidity. That's two things. But you have used a great expression like the interests of the Estonian state in your answers and speeches here. Please define the interests of the Estonian state to me, simply so that I can quote you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U34	Then let's start over. The brightest places in this speech were stories about paying off stupidity. I don't know that Estonia would have paid for some stranger's stupidity. However, I must honestly admit that the European budget is paying for fools in Estonia. Not that everything's stupid what's done for this money, but there's also stupidity. What the ESM is doing now, if I understood your clue correctly, is to impose conditions on those who do stupid things, and the condition is to change and, of course, pay for their own stupidities. That's quite the opposite. Rather, by the unrefundable means that we have gladly received here, with common joy, the ability to pay for foolishness, i.e. foolishness. Europrojects are not all completely and ultimately smart, there are things that, under no circumstances, taxpayers' money would even ask, but it seems that if there is European taxpayers' money, it is appropriate to do so. The ESM is clearly lending and under very restrictive conditions. On some considered enslaving terms, on reasonable terms, I think. Not only do countries have to pay back this money, but they also have to redesign themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U35	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! There was talk of stupidity. Stupidness is a question of position, depends on what point of view to look at, and usually a fool still thinks that everyone else is much dumber than him. Here we can discuss whether, for example, Greece has acted foolishly or wisely when it lets its public sector into debt, and whether Estonia behaves wisely or foolishly if it lets private sector debts. But in any case, you are right that the euro and the ESM have opened up huge opportunities for us, and they could be used. Since we are the founding members of the ESM, there are all opportunities now, and the state could take a lot of debt and then raise the wages of doctors, the salaries of teachers, and pump money into the public sector. Our lives would be much better and let the ESM pay for it all. Haven't you ever thought of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U37	It hasn't even occurred to me in my dreams to pay someone's wages for debts and even more for unrepayable debts. It is an absurd idea that we should start to cover our fixed costs and obligations to people on a loan. Are these people temporary? What do we do with them, do we wind up when the loan comes back? Apparently, your recipe for not paying a loan is simply a guarantee of the well-being of these people. I'm quite opposed to that. Speaking of such nonsense, I vividly remember a speech given by one of the then mayor to our group a few years ago, in which he defended one of the most important projects in the region. The cost of the project was 66 million kroons. His idea, apart from the fact that one of the hedgehogs had to be introduced, that hedgehog was, as far as I know, in private ownership, was completely incomprehensible. I didn't understand why we had to listen to it for two hours. Luckily, the project didn't work. But the beauty things that aren't really going to produce any added value are here and there all the time. There are things that are not sustainable or sustainable using a less ugly word, they are built ready and then found that there is no bad story, no money for maintenance and repair, or there are no children who come between these walls in school or kindergarten. The use of European money as an alien is also a problem in Estonia, not as great as in many other countries. Let's all try to get smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U38	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U39	Thank you. In part, you have already answered that question, but, as you mentioned, we have had a lot of stupidity with the euro money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U40	'Very much' is exaggeration.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U41	Maybe you could give me some concrete examples, or it's gonna be a little declarative. You may have made a small introduction to the answer to the previous question, but would you like to give a concrete example of what has been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U42	I don't want to open the fronts here because I'd certainly be unfair. One thing I mentioned would save people and not specify. I have said before that I think that the grants granted by EAS, which come largely from euro money, are strange, they do not provide long-term benefits. I don't understand what the benefits are of now I'm bringing a well-known example of sending someone back to the ocean for millions of dollars. What does it provide for Estonia's economic structure or long-term development? For this person, for his team, yes, but is it an economy that we must develop with the support of Europe, I do not believe. On the previous question, there was such a contrast, that who lets the country's debt, who lets the private sector debt, that the countries behave differently. Estonia has not let the private sector in debt; the private sector is letting its own debt. It is the responsibility of the States that they are the anchor that maintains overall stability. The rescue of the individual in need is ultimately behind the state's ability, and the countries are very different. In the case of Greece, if we can talk about a very small private debt, then on the other hand, it has an extremely high public debt, Italy having the same story. However, there are also examples where both the private sector and the state of Cyprus, for example, are in high debt at the same time. He has not yet fully understood what his obligations are arising because the request for help is not correctly submitted. Cyprus is falling into high official public debt, while the private sector is also in good debt. There is no such link that a small public debt would somehow generate a high level of private debt. Even that correlation doesn't exist. It can be said, though, that the example of the state helps people to act more rationally if their moods dictate. I think our country's example helped the private sector to withdraw faster than living in debt at some point. If the state had always been urging in its messages, then perhaps the situation would have been even better. But we didn't have much to do, either, in the case of the loan boom, in the open market, apart from sending messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U43	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have tried to complain consistently in your answers, not only today, but also in the past, that we want to become part of the European Union, but not in any way want to help, always forgetting one little detail: the European Union will become all the new members of the European Union, even those who are not in the euro zone, except that those who are not in the euro zone do not have to deal with the ESM right now. Take, for example, Latvia, which is not in the euro area and has been able to repay its debt in large early terms. Latvia's economic growth is now one of the fastest in the European Union. Hence my question: what would your advice to Latvia be, should it enter the euro zone and, if so, why would it do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U45	Thank you. Latvia does not need such advice from us. It is committed to meeting the euro criteria and entering the euro area. Latvia has also approved joining the ESM before us. As far as I understand this procedure, I may not be precise in the details, but basically the Latvian Parliament has approved accession to the ESM. This will not, of course, work as it did for us, but the Latvian Parliament has been much faster than the Estonian Parliament and has acted in a greater roar. Do we need to advise Latvia? Latvia has always looked at Estonia as an example; we do not need to write it separately. But if you look at the national rankings, it only confirms that their attitude is also practical. After ratifying or approving the ESM, we will be more cautious about the wording, the pace is few things where Latvia is in a better position than we are. Let's look at the common standard of living, even the price figures. If you take one period of short-term growth, one where Latvia is always behind us is the economic cycle. Our economy grew by 7.6% last year, their growth tends to be more than 5% this year. The economic cycle is always later there than ours, and at the same time their decline was much more severe in all indicators. Their boom was a more serious internal bubble than ours. We have a good understanding with Latvia, there is no need to point fingers or blame here, we work together and we understand each other. I don't feel the need to brag about it. I say it's normal cooperation. We know that Latvia has even more room for improvement than we do, and they know it by looking at the rankings. I have been there to perform and have seen comparisons, which speak all too strongly in Estonia's favour. Growth in a few percentage points does not improve Latvia's situation so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U46	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U47	Thank you. Minister of Finance! Speaking about the future of the euro area, you mentioned that centralisation is beneficial for countries in some respects. Thus, the view remained that you consider Estonia useful if the current economic and political community could become a budgetary union. I conclude that if the euro area were to be the start of a budgetary union, it would also mean tax harmonisation. I believe I do not underestimate your ability to convince you, but it seems to me that your persuasion is not enough to make it clear to the rest of the euro-zone countries that, for example, personal income tax should become like Estonia in everyone else. Rather, it still means a tax change for Estonia. Has it been said on this subject that the Estonian tax system is not European?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U48	I don't know what you mean by a budget union, but what we mean is uniform budgetary rules, basic regularity, sustainable public finances, end of debt, macroeconomic balance, risk mitigation. There's no argument here. As far as the tax system is concerned, I have talked about this before, and Europe has done so too. It harmonises indirect taxes, which are the issue of the common market. The harmonisation of indirect taxes could only take place in a situation of extreme pressure, and I have not yet seen it happen, even then. Ireland, which came to ask for aid, was under pressure to change its corporate tax system. He didn't give up. He agreed to everything, but that's not what he's doing, it's a competition issue for him. Is there harmonisation in direct taxes? Yes, it is, until recently. The crisis has gone awry. There was still a trend towards reducing the tax burden on both individuals and companies. This was, of course, particularly offset by some kind of measures aimed at the poorest, and it was precisely these higher levels. This is a very painful process because budgets depend on income tax. Once it has been lost, new stages have been built there, this is a sure way to run down the economy, to tax more skilled labour, to tax capital and to say that you are not welcome here more than what you pay to the budget. The consequence is the removal of economic development. But, as I said, in the case of indirect taxes, this harmonisation is quite regulatory. There are holes in the VAT system, but basically there are rules. Looking at crisis measures, the main crisis measure is raising VAT everywhere, just like Estonia. When I met the European Tax Commissioner for the first time as a young minister, I gave him an inspiring speech, if I may say so, over the table how the European tax system should actually be changed. He said he couldn't agree with me, but he can't, these countries here are somehow different. In economic terms, we did not have any disagreements about the abolition of VAT exemptions, the increase of VAT where necessary, the abolition of the tax burden on labour and capital. Exactly the same is said by the Swedish Minister for Finance, who is certainly one of the brightest in Europe, whose economy is one of the brightest. The last Swedish decision was to reduce corporation tax from 26% to 21%. What have we done? Decreased corporate tax from 26% to 21%. Exactly the same numbers, but the system is even cheaper. It's going hard in Sweden. There are left-wing traditions in people's minds, and thinking about the needs of the economy goes a little bit more inert, but they have evolved in the same direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U49	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U50	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U51	Oh, I'm not going on this slippery road so I can give you a one-phrase quote. If Brush Pets comes with a camera to get a quote from me, I'm definitely not going on that slippery road either. But in my presentation here above I already said: in the context of Estonia's interests versus European interests we have very little material. There are very few examples of how to build this definition. In a European context, our interest is a strong and functioning economic area, a truly influential foreign policy centre, and so on, a place of security stability. In any case, our interests and those of Europe coincide so much that, as I said at the beginning, I would not like to develop a debate in such a form that I did protect Estonia from harassment in Europe. I wouldn't want that! But that's about how you asked in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U52	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Now there's been a little misfortune. We are asking questions for answers, and the politician who supports you, Juku-Kalle Raid, asked a question that he did not receive an answer to. I repeat this question so that you can answer and quote Juku-Kalle from you. Define, please, the interests of the Estonian state!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U53	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U54	Thank you. There must have been some bitter experience in this matter, but I don't know how to get on the same page. You should be more specific! I cannot complain to Estonian officials in general. I think our office is professional and humane and does not do anything stupid. What are the methods in Finland? Just as in Finland, the words of politicians are distorted. I do not know in any particular case whether the words that appeared in the newspapers were exactly the words that the politician said. But specifically with my colleague, it has happened exactly as it has happened to me that has just been lied to. I have seen the news that I don't know if I understood Finnish exactly, that a journalist was fired for distorting the words of my colleague Jutta Urpilais. It wasn't court news, I was about to say that I went to court, but no. It was precisely the dismissal of a journalist for producing very strongly eurosceptical news. Finland is very afraid of such a reputation. He has worked himself up hard in Europe and is now worried that statements or distortions would not give him a different impression. And, of course, there's a major charge here on this detonator called indigenousism, which they sometimes try to compete with during the election.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U55	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U56	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Maybe the subject was already under discussion here today, but I was a little out of the way. Have any other countries other than Latvia made clear statements that they want to join the euro area? After all, the euro area wants to be supported by force right now. Is there some sort of behind-the- scene Swedish and Danish jam going on to raise this problem quite seriously, because there is a sort of silence in this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U57	I can say for my Swedish and Danish colleagues that they have always been Eurozone-friendly. The Danish kroon is even connected to the euro, and they feel very much responsible for Europe. But there is a clause in their accession on a referendum that cannot be over or over. Nor can the referendum be overcome in the sense that when all the fingers point towards the euro zone, they blame him, it is very difficult to convince the people. If I were to convince you, I would draw attention to these countries, leaving Sweden and Denmark aside, who on the outside have bragged about the fact that they will join the euro zone when the eurozone becomes worthy of them when it resolves its crises and is as big as they are. We look at the standard of living, we look at the price of the loan, we look at the behaviour of their national currency, we look at budgetary discipline, there is nothing to brag about. Nothing, it's clearly worse. And it has clearly won that there is one big currency in Europe. So such statements are cynical and, in fact, contrary to the European Union's accession agreements, that the euro area will be joined as soon as possible. Now it is said at home that, no, the eurozone is not worthy of us, being twice as poor as it is, on average, twice as expensive as the country's debt yield, with a greater deficit than the eurozone on average. It is, in fact, a kind of cynical place of self-prevention by pointing the finger at the euro zone, which has actually dealt with its concerns most firmly, with its budgetary and macroeconomic regulations. Latvia does not say that grapes are sour, but there are countries that are talking about sour grapes. I did not mean Sweden or Denmark here, where there are other reasons, and they are also in a different position. It is difficult to convince the people there because these countries have been extremely solidarity towards the rest of the world and are more prosperous than the European average. In any case, they have a different relationship to Estonia or Latvia in terms of betting and receiving.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U58	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Finance, for answering the questions. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Kadri Samson, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U59	I think it is appropriate to begin my speech with sincere thanks to the Minister for Finance, who has very thoroughly enlightened his views on the future of the euro zone. I think that the compliment to the Minister for Finance for his meaningful speech is that there are at least twice as many members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber as usual on Mondays. But to me it was the opinion of the Minister for Finance that if we have to define the interests of the Estonian state in the euro zone, they are not, for us, European interests. In a sense, we have already been warned on this issue by the judges of state who said that, by defining increasingly their own interests as European interests, Estonia is giving up its competences and the mandate to give away these competences is becoming exhausted. So there are probably still many debates ahead of the Riigikogu. This will help us to bring ourselves into the subject and prevent a situation where it is said that a decision must now be taken urgently by some committee, because the Minister will already have a telephone conference in two hours' time, where one or the other position must be turned down to European and Eurozone colleagues. The Minister also mentioned that it is in our interest to have tougher rules and stronger sanctions in the euro zone. In fact, these tougher rules and stronger sanctions may not make anything easier for Estonia, because the situation we have reached today has arisen precisely because there are rules, but no one is complying with them. When the Stability and Growth Pact was adopted in Amsterdam in 1997, it was intended to ensure that Member States continue their efforts to maintain financial and fiscal discipline even after the introduction of the single currency, and that means that the Maastricht criteria must be met by the country even after joining the euro area. But in reality, there is a situation in which Estonia wants to say that 12 euro-zone countries do not meet the envisaged Maastricht criterion for a 6% debt burden, but we are not talking about not meeting any of the Maastricht criteria either. For example, Estonia does not comply with the inflation rate. It has been agreed that national inflation rates should not exceed the average inflation rate of the three best performing Member States by more than 1.5% in terms of price stability. If we look at this year or last year, we see that we are breaking this agreement and no one is paying attention to it. We only met this rate in the deepest economic crisis. As we know, last year there was a prominent price increase in Estonia, and according to Statistics Estonia, it was 5%. The lowest price increases in the euro area were in Ireland (1.2%), Slovenia (2.1%) and the Netherlands (2.5%). If we add them, divide them by three and add another allowed 1.5%, then we learn that the Maastricht criterion was 3.4%, while Estonia was 5%. And the first eight months of this year say that the price increase in Estonia has been 3.8%, but this year it should have been less than 3.1% to fit into the Maastricht criterion. So we are very selective in following these rules, in which we are calling for tougher discipline and tougher sanctions, but at the same time we are not talking about any subject at all. The same seems to be true of the tax issue. We justify ourselves with Europe if there is a desire to raise VAT, but we are silent about Europe's tendency, if there is a very common tax system that makes tax relief for people on lower wages, i.e. graduated income tax. However, since it has been possible to talk about the future of the euro area in relation to a wide range of issues and to develop different issues in questions and answers, I would say that, for the future of the euro area, it is not certain that all these packages of assistance will be enough and that the ESM will be enough. One day, those who support the ESM now will also get sick of being a good European will cost too much. Therefore, it may happen that this position, which I am on today and is our group, will be reached some time later by those who are making very strong commitments to Estonia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U60	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. The Minister of Finance would also like to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U61	I'd like to make a little comment on that conclusion. General recommendation to the most prominent members of the Riigikogu: Forget this Maastricht criteria talk. Maastricht criteria are the entry criteria for the euro area and no one is throwing us out of the euro area because our inflation rate is above 3%. No one ever thought that when we were in the euro zone. However, we had to show financial stability for a certain time before accession and then comply with the rules. But the fact that we have a higher inflation rate, no one thought otherwise. No one thought that our inflation would fall exactly to the euro zone average. Everyone knew, point 1, that inflation in the euro area was better controlled than outside the euro area, and point 2, that in countries with lower prices and rapid economic growth, as is the case in Estonia, inflation is somewhat higher than the average. That's what's happened to us. In turn, inflation in different countries is influenced by a variety of factors on foreign markets. In any case, Estonia is more than eurozone on average affected by international energy and food prices. So forget about the criteria. Another thing that should be forgotten is the attitude that only party X, for example, is opposed to increasing responsibilities. I say that, for example, increasing the ESM's loan limit is always spoken out in Europe. Several countries have said that it is 500, do not expect more. Something should change very much so that this government, too, should ask the Riigikogu to raise this border. That's not likely. It's not on the horizon right now, and I don't see that this patience isn't going to be broken. That is exactly what I said in my introductory comment, or indeed it was not in the introduction, but when it was a question of whether I was defending Estonia's interests. No, I never said that European interest is exactly the same as Estonia's interest and Estonia's interest is exactly the same as European interest. I said that they're almost never in conflict. And what I didn't do until Friday, for example, I was talking about. My speech was about how the desire of countries with a lower standard of living to protect the wealthiest ends. Do not hope that in the future everything will be possible for us to accept the relaxation of conditions and new requests for help from wealthier countries. So you're not gonna answer us to yourself for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In answer to the question about our northern neighbours, it was said that some officials in the meantime turned into Eurosceptics and then became raised very quickly. You said that in a rather short time, they were told how a proper official should behave and speak. Perhaps you can tell us what methods are used in Finland if officials need to be raised in this way? Maybe we can understand why our officials sometimes act so weird and say weird things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U63	Our next question is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Eiki Nestori, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kajar Lemberi, Kalev Kotkas, Karel Rüütli, Mart Meri, Neeme Suur, Rannar Vassilyev, Rein Randver, Sven Mikeri and Urve Palo on 30 August 2012 (No 184). I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U64	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, We just finished the inflation issue, but we can't get over it or around it either. As the Ministry of Finance is obliged to negotiate with other ministries on the justification and feasibility of the draft budget and its costs, the Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi regarding public sector wages. The good Minister of Finance has said that he does not consider it his role to allow the world to raise wages, so that it is the role of ministers of expense. The good minister has also said that wages have increased more than prices. The ministers of spending referred to, i.e. the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior, have had a bit of a different opinion, particularly as regards the area of government of their own ministry. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, has said that, of course, educators, but not only, belong to those who have legitimate expectations of a higher salary. The Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, finds: 'In times of economic crisis, painful decisions and wage cuts must still be made, but now people have been doing their job for years without murmuring, and they deserve a decent salary for it. The government has to give a signal that this is the direction they're moving in. 'The Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, has made a commitment to raise the salaries of health professionals by at least 10% over three years, including 5% as early as next year. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, has said that, above all, additional funds will be requested for the next year to increase the payroll fund of the Ministry's administration. As a result of this and the contradiction between the words of other ministers and those of the Minister of Finance, the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party have put three questions to the Minister of Finance. The first concerns changes in the real wage of educational and cultural workers, police officers, rescuers, defence forces and medical personnel over the last five years. We ask for an overview of this, which should show whether wages have risen faster than there has been price increases in these areas as well. We also ask for an assessment of the justification for the desire of so-called "cost ministers" to raise the salaries of their administrative staff. Thirdly, we ask whether the commitments made by the ministers mentioned in the draft budget that will soon be passed on to us have come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U65	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. I'd like the Minister of Finance back to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U66	Before any direct answers to the three questions you have asked, I would like to make three more general observations. You are actually dealing with about three issues here. One thing is that you have read the Evening Pages in the summer, because it is the references from this page that you have built up such an excruciating questioning. I have to admit, I was working this summer and I couldn't read a lot of Nightshade. But I read the Postman and I suggest you too. A week earlier, I had denied the same logic of reproach at Postimees on 23 August. I reacted to the very personal derogatory comments on Postimees' second page and also to the cartoon, where my words were used and raised to a new subject, instead of a new context. In essence, I was mocked at how I did not know that there had been a crisis, how I did not know that energy prices had risen here, that what I was talking about at all and that nothing could be said at all. My statement was published very correctly and clearly in a sense of remorse. You must have seen it before you submitted an inquiry. The sentence that wages have increased faster than prices has been valid since the third quarter of 2011. It has been in force so far, although it was not stated in the context of a view of so long, but I reported on the economic results of the first half of this year, very precisely specifying what I am talking about and how long it can be said that wages have increased faster than prices, or real wages, have increased. The second place I've said the same is the economic forecast. The forecasters estimate that real wages will increase over the next year, and I am pleased about that. The second issue you are discussing in your inquiry is again such a very symptomatic one. A certain number of state agencies are elevated above others and are opposed to all other like worthless agencies, only asking them how they can do it. All of this is being put into this statistical mean context so that I should feel guilty that I am talking about statistics or forecasts at all. Firstly, I must say yes, Mr Vasiliev, as of 1 January 2013, if you would just listen for a moment. I am responsible for the public sector's wage policy or public service in general or how it is written in precise terms. That is why this year I have already provided the government with a proactive wage analysis. I shouldn't have done this, but I presented it in the context of the budget and rejected the view that everyone is winning each other. Still talking about rescuers, policemen, doctors, teachers! Doctors, teachers, rescuers, policemen, as if others weren't human, as if others had no need, as if they were the worst in need. That's the attitude I'm resisting. This is unfair to all other agencies that are not less important. They're not that popular, but they're not less important! I am simply saying that none of these agencies belong to my administration. If you ask, if you really want to get answers to the salaries of these particular agencies, then the most honest thing is to ask the Minister in particular and ask him this: what structural restructuring has been done for you to make wage demands better? Because wage demands are all the time, but money doesn't just flow on, but the country needs to be made more effective all the time. Speaking of socialism, the Sots had a minister and a chairman, his name is Jüri Pihl. You don't want to remember him anymore, but I say it was about pay or structural restructuring that he took the bull by the horns and dared to make unpopular decisions to make the worthwhile people pay more in the future. Internal security is clearly one of Europe's most expensive and has also been one of the most inert in the restructuring of our costs. He was one of the ministers who did it. My responsibility for all wage policy is first of all that the budget be sustainable so that there are no setbacks. We have to report to the government what the options are. The third issue was the state budget. I would not talk at all about the state budget, because it is not ready. There are procedures and disputes for this, and tomorrow we will continue to argue all day long again, there are no results at this time. But now to the questions. The first question begins with the reference to the Evening Page that wage increases are faster than price increases. It is, since the third quarter of last year. You will then ask to introduce the change in the real wage of educational and cultural workers, police officers, rescuers, defence forces and medical personnel. I'll try. I don't think I'm the main answer here. I mean, I'm telling you, there are people in this room who could complement me, but I think they're gone. One of them was the minister at the time when we let in some errors in the budget, and at least one of the heirs was also part of the so-called Crocodiles Commission, which made the necessary cuts in 2008. Well, not enough cuts, but still. According to Statistics Estonia, real wages in the public sector increased by 1% in 2011. Pay attention! I am talking about the public sector in general, not the administration of other ministers. And now, when it comes to your favorite officials, these are police and defence officers, they are historically higher than average wage increases. While the average wage of public authorities increased in 2008 compared to 2006, with an average increase of 48%, which is a clearly unsustainable rate of growth, without police and military personnel and even without prison workers falling around the same area, the total wage growth in these three activities over the two years was 78%. That's where we're supposed to look! In this sense, it is correct that you are talking about five years, indeed, so you should look at it. Where was the mistake made? In those areas where wage increases were the most intense in booming times and where the most questions were asked by à la policemen, rescuers, doctors, teachers, even the most serious mistakes were made. And when the crisis came, the most adjustment was needed in these areas. The police and the militia are most clearly distinguished here. Looking at 2011, the real wage increased by 0.3%. He did, however, increase because prices also increased, as the opposition has just said here. In any case, it was a burden on the budget and the decision to raise wages had been reduced. In the field of military defence, real wages fell by 0.1% last year. There, this guaranteed percentage of GDP produced this result: a minimum reduction in real wages, i.e. more or less keeping up with inflation. But the greatest pay drop in this company was the saviors. Their real wages decreased by 2.4%. You have justly appointed this profession, but you have harmed some others. And most of all, it is a pity that you have not mentioned social workers in your inquiry. If we also compare them with medical, educational and cultural workers, the wage levels of social workers are the lowest and their needs are obviously the greatest in our review. The purchasing power of medical, educational and cultural workers' salaries decreased in 2011, which must be acknowledged. Budgetary constraints, these mistakes that have ever been made, sit so deeply in our budget that we could not keep up with inflation, but the biggest fall was still in the social sphere. This is what you have deleted from the list of popular professions. In the case of the police and the Defence Forces, there was no reduction in real wages, but an increase. So I'd like to ask you to make a distinction between agencies if you want to show sympathy. What else can I tell you? The more even the pay during the boom, the more moderate the wage increase, the smaller the setbacks during the crisis. It was in power structures and precisely in this same hall, but also because of the government's selective approach, that these setbacks and sufferings were greater than on average. The second question: 'How reasonable and reasonable do you think it is for the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior to raise the salary of their administrative staff? ' I think this is a highly justified request. That's what we have to work for. But the main source is, of course, restructuring, especially in those areas where restructuring has not been completed the most. Here we have one very good example: this is an education area where the Minister has not only made strong statements, but has also made strong plans. In the field of education, teachers' salaries have a desire to restructure and to pay salaries in one leg. I can't say that the Ministry of the Interior doesn't have such a will for reforms, but there goes this thing a little harder and very much, with a certain disparage, that everyone is terribly tired of reforms, that we are still in another culture, that we still don't fit in with the police. It is actually not very pleasant to listen to such complaining about the wearers of uniforms, all the more so that the result of the restructuring will ultimately be a more dignified salary. People themselves, or, let's say, interest groups, even more precisely their representatives, I cannot speak on behalf of everyone, these are representatives who have gotten into the media, they could pry less and contribute more to this in order to have room for an increase in wages. That's my recommendation. Now, speaking of wishes, of course, it is not wise to speak of two figures as a percentage of growth. This time should be forgotten and such statements are only counterproductive. Let's remember, however, that our basic budget is still in deficit, he fell there because of the boom. We lived in secret debt and the withdrawal of commitments that have already been made never goes at the same rate and is not politically possible. They're always big agendas that still talk about the other way around. As I said, the desire to raise wages is justified. We have a minimum reserve for this in all ministries, most of which have been significantly reduced. Our basic budget deficit is falling next year in size minus seven minus two. But we look at the wishes for reform, the level of pay, education, social guarantees, fluidity and historical behaviour of all of this. If you'll give me some time, I'll bring you some interesting facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U67	No way, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U68	Give me this opportunity with questions, then I will describe the salaries in these areas more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U69	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U70	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. When you draw up the budget, you will surely have in your drawer a piece of paper that summarises the desire to raise wages in all areas, probably also contains some amount in millions of euros. If you look at the window from here, the parties sitting on that side will see the rise in taxes as one but perhaps as the only way to meet these salary demands. How much should income tax and value added tax, for example, be based on these two possibilities of extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U71	Thank you. I wouldn't even start thinking like that, because it's a one-day solution. The consequence would be that everyone pays more taxes, but the systems are unorganized. It would be so easy to raise taxes every year when money is missing. But that's how public finances can't work. In Europe, it has been smoothly done for decades and it has been finger-cut, and we want to do it exponentially. You could still learn from the mistakes of strangers. I say over: those who speak out the loudest, or those who speak out the most, are not in the worst position in terms of pay if we compare these favourite groups. It can be said, however, that those areas where the most talk about pay is usually the most expensive. In international comparison, our education system is relatively one of the most expensive in Europe (this is the third or fourth most expensive in terms of spending), our internal security is at the very top, culture was perhaps even the top in Europe. If national defence gets 2% of GDP next year, but they still talk about the need for extra money for wages, I think it's not adequate. In any case, these percentages are significantly higher than the average in the European Union and the euro area. All the more reason to think about restructuring as a source of wage growth. That's the deal the government has made. Before we give more money (if we give at all), by means of any additional revenue generated, we still need to clear our house properly, all kinds of ski trips and inefficient structures must be abolished. There you go. One thing I didn't mention is medicine. Medical expenditure as a ratio to GDP is not high on a European scale, but it is very efficient to use money. It's highlighted. In other countries, there is a strong criticism here. Sometimes they spend twice as much on GDP, but the results are not better, the queues are not shorter. At the same time, we can say that the monthly salaries of doctors have increased as one of the few areas, with considerable weight. Last year, in a state-funded sector, let's say, the average salary of doctors increased by over 5%. This has been the case year after year. I can't believe how much there's still to complain about by the Doctors' Association and his leader, who's in this room too. Of course, it is a question of international competition, but justice is not even for the point. In the public sector, too, there are plenty of agencies in a much worse situation. The average salary of doctors is still more than twice as high as in other areas. Any kind of wage demands and strike threats could still be within the scope of courtesy, let's put it this way. However, the situation of lower-level medical staff is more serious. True, a very good leap took place in the nurses' wages a few years ago. If I look at wage developments, I can see that, compared to 2006, development here has still been one of the most significant. In 2007, the sister's salary rose properly, and in 2008 there was a very decent wage increase. There's gonna be a line someday. It cannot be that in one area wages are rising much faster than in other areas. Regarding teachers, I have said that although it is mostly a skilled, graduate workforce, it is not polite to read them now among the worst earners. With the exception of Tallinn, they clearly earn more than average wages, they receive at least one tenth higher wages than the average in their region. It can be said that the state maintains a higher standard of living for teachers in the regions than the weighted average in the region in general. And I'm always sorry that no one protects officials. Everyone subjugates them and points their finger at them. There was some kind of indeterminate accusation here today. They don't deserve it, but they depend very much on their professionalism in the country. We often have one or two specialists in a very demanding field. If they leave, there's gonna be a problem. So sometimes you protect the officials, that's my proposal. Their salary requests have always been forgotten, which doesn't mean that even during the boom there would have been no more shoveling than needed, and more than there was strength. But ask me more. I didn't answer one question. If you ask me about it, I could answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U72	Does my colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, ask this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U73	Thank you. I will speak once again about the increase in prices. After all, it is known that in Estonia, there has been the highest price increase in Europe over a few years, and there are new price increases ahead. There is a hug in the room and electricity, which creates a new price rally for all goods and services. I understand that you feel that inflation is justified. However, if we compare Eurostat data, we will see that wages rose by around 2% in the European Union during the 2007-2010 crisis, in Poland even around 12%, in Bulgaria even more. During the same period, according to Eurostat, wages decreased by 6%. I ask you this: how patient do you think the Estonian people have been and for how long do you think there will be a mild wage rise, including an increase in the salaries of officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U74	I don't know what the 6% drop you're talking about. During the crisis, public sector wages decreased by severalteen per cent, wage costs decreased by 17% or 13%. I was talking about the big ups, too. These major increases are very often preparation for a major decline in the public sector, and the same problem is everywhere. We should not point out anyone for unreasonable wage increases, but since you mentioned Bulgaria, I say that the nominal growth there is in the order of magnitude that we have. How they can raise severalteen percent of wages in the public sector, I don't know that. There must be some kind of correlation. However, it cannot be excluded that in Bulgaria tax collection has significantly improved. The state still does not establish well-being, the state organises society and creates prerequisites for prosperity to grow or to survive in worse times. Once again, the pay drop has been a fact. On the other hand, when it comes to wage increases, I bring out a figure that I just saw. There has been a very random flow of years and data, but I can tell you that in Estonia, wages have increased almost 4.5 times in the last 15 years. This shows that the development model we have chosen has still significantly improved prosperity in all respects. We have nothing to be ashamed of or disparage. At the same time, prices have increased by over half. Real wage growth has been more than twofold.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U75	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! My question is about wage negotiations. Do you know whether, at the moment, some wage negotiations with professional associations or trade unions dealing with different sectors and sectors have been concluded? And if so, which areas will be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U77	It is not my job to conduct any such negotiations. I would argue that such collective national wage negotiations could already have exhausted themselves. European practice has been, over and over again, the recommendations that have been made to countries that are in trouble because of public spending: not to rigidise the pay system with either laws or collective agreements. The conditions are very different. It is not the case that we simply establish prosperity and raise wages, and we believe that finance and the economy do not run away at one point. Yes, they are. I think that a model of such gradual improvement of well-being could all be accepted. In today's world, just two-digit growth rates are not possible, at least not in the developed world. There's no more money if someone decides to corner someone. I do not agree with the sentence I have read in the paper that a strike is not the best solution. The strike in the state sector is what it is. This is not a solution at all, it hides the problems and only creates conflict. It's not a solution. Everybody's suffering. We do not live in the 19th century if it really was exploitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U78	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U79	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! You said a lot about justice. I know this is not your area of expertise and you are not responsible for this area. But I ask: how fair is it if 15% is added to the salary of the manager of RMK of EUR 6000?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U80	Thank you. I don't know if this 15% is correct, but it's not fair. I have already spoken on this subject. I have instructed my representative not to accept at least this initial increase. I don't know the end result, I've been gone. Like I said, it's not fair. I do not think that this is nuclear physics, where a much higher salary should be paid than for the heads of state. I have no reproach for the human being. I think that our views on wages in these areas should become more critical. There are a number of state companies where there is no competition and there is no need for a special fantasy, but the money is received not only from members of the Riigikogu but also from the President much more. I don't think that's fair. At the same time, there are state companies where responsibility is very high and international competition is very strong. So it doesn't apply to all wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U81	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U82	Thank you. Dear Minister, You named the officials listed in the inquiry as the favorite officials of the Social Democrats. In fact, these are the officials that your colleagues, members of the Government of the Republic, have responded to more direct or indirect promises about the expected wage increase. That is why they were specifically mentioned in the inquiry. As Minister of the Interior of his former Chairman, Jüri Pihl, the Social Democrats recall in a very good word. For example, he achieved such results in reducing road deaths that it was difficult for his offspring to maintain the level achieved. Your compliments on the structural reforms he has carried out are certainly welcome as Social Democrats. But I'm asking you about the Minister of Defence and Social Affairs. One of you says there is money waiting for a raise, and the other says there are social workers, whose legitimate expectations have been overlooked, and medical workers who are complaining. Why do you believe that your colleagues in these areas have failed to make the expected and necessary structural changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U83	Oh, that's a lot of talk! It's like I'm trying to take care of everything. I'm talking about whining about a doctor's representative. Look at his state, look at his tone! He always behaves the same, regardless of the situation and the subject. I'm sure it's a medical problem, but the medical problem isn't solved that way when you come up with tens and tens of percent salary demands. That doesn't make any sense. I can say that the Health Insurance Fund has, in general, imposed structural changes, but this policy could be a little more robust. But I guess every policy has its own counter-policy. It's not that easy to reorganize this area. We all know that regions also have their needs. In your questioning, you chose only to ask for your salary, you put together your list on the basis of the press. You have chosen ministers who have decided to say something in the media, and these have not always been perfect statements. I have read such a sentence from the Minister of Defence that there is still a need to discuss whether the money for salary increases comes from the defence budget. What am I gonna do with that comment? I'll forget it. It was either a journalist's mistake or a ministerial inexperience. I also know what is behind the statements made by the Minister for Education. There's an ambition to pry away the inertia of the system. Not all of which I disagree with him, but I certainly support his efforts to redistribute money for the benefit of teachers and to reform structurally. We may have more disagreements in higher education, but there are hardly any in secondary education. He's more of an authority for me here. What else? The Minister of Social Affairs said nothing but what he decided with me on the board of the Health Insurance Fund (also my hand is in the game). It is not worth evaluating politicians or politics through such journalistic blunders, otherwise we all look like villains. Let's be source-critical!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U84	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U85	Thank you. I also ask about one organisation, namely the budget negotiations of Estonian National Broadcasting, including wage negotiations. I am not asking how you feel about the increase in pay for broadcasters, because you will certainly say that this is the competence of the Council. You're right, that's what the Council does. Instead, I am asking about the negotiations as a process. The Estonian National Broadcasting Act provides that the broadcasting budget is protected by the Chairman of the Broadcasting Council and by the Minister of Finance. But when the chairman of the council, Agu Uudelepp, asked you for an audience, you refused for some reason. I have heard the explanations of one of the parties, the chairman of the Council, about how it was. I thought I'd ask you as a direct source how the story really was when Uudelepp wanted to come to the negotiations, but you didn't accept him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U86	Thank you. If you think I'm a soulless person in this sense, that I don't understand salary requests, I'm trying to disprove that opinion. Whether it's a teacher, a doctor or a journalist, I'm really sorry they earn so little. I've been talking to the press about this before last week. I just talked to one of the editors-in-chiefs. I find it extremely regrettable that the salaries of journalists have gone down and that it has been cut. It also affects the general tone of the press. Sometimes it's hard for them to overcome personal pain and a little bit of readers, let's say, to tune positively. As far as Agu Uudeleppa is concerned, he turned down a plea in the press, I think, Delfis, that I didn't accept him. I have it in writing. He hasn't caused such a story. Agu Uudelepp has not asked me to have an audience, if that's what you might call it. If I'd known that Agu Uudelepp wanted to meet me, I'd certainly have been looking for time. But I didn't know he wanted to meet. There, of course, is one of the problems of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act. It is somewhat ambiguously worded, as if the National Broadcasting Council were to represent national broadcasting in the budget negotiations. But at the same time, the law of the Government of the Republic states with whom the Minister of Finance negotiates. It's a '51 vote' law, a constitutional law. This law says that the Minister of Finance negotiates with ministers and constitutional institutions. It would be crazy if I were to negotiate, I don't know, with the plant protection inspection, the defence forces and the national broadcasting, and then the ministers should eat this soup, but I'd just talk it through and pat it on the shoulder, so right, I'll back you up. You can't, you just can't. I think Agu Uudelepp is of the same opinion. There's a little problem with the wording of the law. I know what the Minister of Culture thinks of this. He thinks it's a serious problem. I think this is not a serious problem, but we could still eliminate it so that it does not look like the Minister of Culture could not represent the national broadcasting. That's the problem. He can and he will, and I've put it on him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U87	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary of Finance. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank considers that the salaries of teachers and medical staff can be increased through the unification of the clumsy state apparatus. Those are his words. Do you, Minister, support Jaan Männik's proposal? If not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Whoever you talk to in the last two or three years, if the talk lasts more than a quarter of an hour, it will be discussed who has left Estonia, where he works and what kind of salary he receives from his relatives, friends or co-workers. There are too many people working abroad who have actually gone away forever, too many, you could say. If you are discussing wages in the government or in the ministry, will you also analyse the structure of the labour market? Saving the salary may result in a situation where there will soon be no more people to pay the salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U90	Thank you. It cannot be said that among the thousands of items discussed by the government, the issue of pay would be a very large part. Although, according to newspaper headlines, I believe some other ministers are talking about the raise, I am probably talking about it the most, because I am also talking to other ministers on this issue. It is not that I want to keep my wages competitive in my administration, but that I also need to talk to other ministers. So we talk about wages all the time, but not just wages. Let me give you an example. In 2007, a fresh coalition agreement was drawn up, which said that wage growth in the public sector should not exceed the nominal rate of growth in the economy. There was some kind of prognosis that this nominal return would be 14%. This was before 2008, i.e. the year of the crisis, which is why it now sounds ironic, but this is how experts appreciated it at the time. I was present in the cabinet, then as a member of the Riigikogu. My party raised the question that if there is such a point in the coalition agreement, but the wage increase is 20% and 30%, how is that possible? What was the answer? The answer was quite unanimous: we cannot cope with it, we do not have data, we are not going to deal with it, the budget is already here and we are not going to chew through this question, but the budget needs to be submitted. No one really knew that answer that time. Since then, heavy water has flowed into the sea, and attitudes have changed. The current situation is characterised by the fact that we have central personnel accounting, we know how people move in administrative areas, the turnover of workers and the level of wages. We have already had this debate in the government. So who are the best and the worst? Are those who receive the most media and political attention the worst? No, it's not. It makes no sense to look at the worst situation in the list of favorites. The worst salaries are certainly for social workers and cultural workers, not for those who speak most and make their voices. That's a problem. We should all adjust our attitude a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U91	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U92	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Personal behavior is the best example. After that, the example can be extended to other sectors. Can people in your administration count on a small wage increase next year and, if so, on what account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U93	Thank you. Not all of them. As I said, we have worked very hard to eliminate the consequences of the boom and the crisis. We have reduced the basic budget deficit and the number of employees. Inevitably, the Ministry of Finance set an example for others. Wage costs fell by about one fifth during the crisis, with fewer employees. But I don't send those messages in public like that. It is largely the choice of the chancellor who could count on something from his employees. In the case of performance fees, I may have imposed some of my proposals on the chancellor, but not on the wage movements between us. In my opinion, the Tax and Customs Board could serve as an example in the administration. There is a reorganized management structure, the middle level has been lost, the structures have been substantially modified. As a result, the wage increase is said to be 5% or 10%. These are real numbers and reorganization. No special money has been asked for. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board has asked for separate money and received money from the government after a long fight, but to hire more controllers. It is a separate project, it means nothing in the context of structural restructuring, but the result is tens of millions of direct tax revenues, which can be measured in euro, and much better insight into tax fraud. Investing in the Revidents is an exceptionally effective allocation of funds for public finances and fair competition in the economy. All disciplines can breathe more easily because we have contributed to fair tax payments, let's say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U94	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U95	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U96	Thank you. I hate construction like "through something." I'm sorry, I'm starting again! That is, of course, what we are trying to do with the clumsy machine. Clumsy elimination is the main source of wage increases. But I don't think Jaan Männik's statement (I saw the title of this article) is based on anything. I didn't even open that article. He has no knowledge or analysis of this. It's a convenient position that may have been innovative a few years ago, but right now it's just a routine opinion that they live too well out there and there's too many of them out there. No, it's not that simple. At the same time, however, all sectors have been tasked with eliminating clumsy and inefficiencies and channelling resources for wage increases. As can be seen, statistics confirm that real wages have made progress in one area and another; they have started to grow at times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U97	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U98	Thank you. By 1 October, we should have a draft state budget from the government. The third question of the inquiry sought to know whether or not the promises and wishes of the ministers mentioned in this inquiry would materialise. Are there any indications already that those whose expectations have been screwed up by ministers have a chance of getting paid more?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U99	I have already said that we are talking about an increase in real wages or a minimum reduction this year, in circumstances where the price increase has been higher than expected and wages have been moving in the same direction in the public sector as well. In most cases, when I talk about it, I talk about macro-level, statistical reporting or economic forecast, but if you look at it, average wages, sometimes real wages have already been on the rise. All ministers received this task, and the majority already anticipated some wage increases in the draft budget, either as a percentage or as a percentage of two. We can say that in the initial negotiations, the percentage is that order of magnitude that can be added with easy effort, a higher percentage already requires more effort. If additional sources of revenue are found to meet painful wishes, it cannot be excluded that some areas will receive extra support. I say this cannot be ruled out, but I promise nothing. As I said, it is not my role to make promises. I'm still talking about the budget and its possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of your reply, you said that you were responsible for the public service from 1 January 2013. § 65 of the Government Act states that the government of the Ministry of Finance is governed by the development of public service. The website of the Ministry of Finance states that the role of the Ministry of Finance is to develop the public service and all activities from there. It's all been written so far. Do you have a few words to clarify the change in the role of the Ministry of Finance in the organisation of the public service? So what's going to happen next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U101	This general obligation requires fitting out. I'd rather not be clear about this right now. People in this area are just getting into the subject. We can also imagine something from what the State Chancellery has done, but the role of the Ministry of Finance is likely to be more diverse. I am not ready to report at this point on what will happen to us only in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U102	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You will tell us the success story of Estonia as a percentage. You are talking about spending on health care being 5.1% of GDP, with a European average of 6.5%. It's more or less the same size and everything is very good and beautiful. However, in financial terms, health care expenditure in Estonia is three times lower than in Finland, for example, four times lower than in Sweden and six times smaller than in Germany. This is exactly what happens to our salaries. We can talk about percentages here, but people don't eat percentages, people eat potatoes and some even potato peels. Speaking of the minister's salary, the Minister of Finance gets as much pay as a nurse in Germany. Is your job really worth the same? When can we still talk about real money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U104	Thank you. There's no more real than the percentages in statistics. It's one of the best trends ever. Absolute numbers must be put in a separate context. This way, in a naked situation, they show little or no development at all. The percentage is put in context, it's already some derivative and some estimate. I suggest you try chewing more of these percentages than you said, even if you didn't eat them. We have increased health expenditure in percentage terms. Looks like 5.1% is a slightly reduced proportion. I remember the time when that percentage was close to four, right now I'm saying that 5.1% is a little modest. But that's the area that's probably the closest to your soul. This is almost the only sensitive area that you have, and have highlighted several Riigikogu formations at all, where we spend a little less in the European dimension, again in percentage terms. We take internal security, culture, national defence, education everywhere we spend more than others, despite our moderate tax burden. Still, try chewing through these percentages and saying that we can do well and effectively as a country. I would add that the place where we spend many times less than the others is interest on loans. If you put it in the context of health expenditure, as you wish, it can be said that Europe spends almost half of its health expenditure on servicing loans, only to pay interest. This is our powerful reserve, with which we can keep up spending on culture, internal defence, education, national defence. Sometimes it is worth not taking the example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U105	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U106	Thank you. Dear Minister, Apart from the Ministry of Finance, according to you, every ministry has a reserve that can raise wages and a 1% increase is as if certain. Has this reserve simply increased by this amount, or will the reserve increase by redistributing internal resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U107	Thank you. I didn't say it was a reserve. I said that in the draft budget, despite frozen operating costs, the ministries have already increased their contribution to wages by 11⁄2 per cent, because precisely as the issues have shown, people cannot suffer indefinitely because our finances were lost during the booming season. They still feel that life has to get better every year. But we have agreed in the government this additional inventory, we do not see for sure 1%, but we see that 1% can be achieved with less effort. Whether the greater efforts will bring anything else, I don't know, and I don't know whether there will be any leftovers in the end, or whether there will be some additional revenue that can be transferred to wages. But all this is the result of our basic budget being taken to a serious disadvantage with excessive wage demands and excessive concessions in 2006 and 2007, but especially in 2008. Then, in some jobs, there was an increase in wages of more than ten percent, and at the same time the crisis began. It's such a heavy wound that it won't come together in a year. It takes five years, but maybe more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U108	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U109	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to explain to you why I asked my question. The National Audit Office's audit of the performance contracts of higher education institutions was discussed today in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. This audit included a graph based on Eurostat data. It shocked me very deeply. Its title was the forecast of the population of Estonia aged 15 to 34 until 2030. The data will start there in 2010. To sum up the four age groups that were included there, there were 384000 people in these groups in 2010. If you look at what Eurostat is forecasting for Estonia, who, we have to admit, knows his business, then in 2030, 278000 people are expected in these age groups. This means that a solid organisation such as Eurostat claims that within 20 years (now only 18 years remain) the number of people of a certain age will decrease by 106000. If extended to the entire population, the coefficient could be 3 to 4, which means that in 2030 there will be less than one million of us, the people living in Estonia. We are adding work migration to this, because people are really leaving mass where wages allow people to live. Imagine a situation when there are 900,000 or less of us. Pensioners are not going anywhere because they have nowhere to go, and this is about half a million pensioners among these 900000 or fewer people. That is why I asked whether migration would be taken into account when determining the remuneration policy. There is already a risk that in 18 years' time or before, as the process dynamically changes, the number of people aged 15 to 34 will be more or less 280000 from around 2025. Then there are simply no people who would pay social tax, but can pay pensions, social benefits, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U110	Thank you very much. In the round of negotiations, I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U111	It is interesting that you have brought this table precisely in the context of pay, because demographic processes are much longer-term, and the hope of simply turning them into wage decisions is almost non-existent. The salary can still be paid as much as the rate of return on society. Knowledge of demographic truths would in any case be necessary for anyone who has not yet learned them. I can still refer to historical circumstances. At the time of Estonia's release, there were two factors. On the one hand, there was immense optimism and a certain baby boom, on the other hand, immigration was one of the causes of all this change. For decades, the labour force that was imported far from here created enormous existential fear and dissatisfaction in Estonians. Unfortunately, this factor turned. On the one hand, emotional problems arose, which were demographically reflected among non-Estonians. First, there was a great emigration, and second, (it still applies) an unaccustomed new situation and a very low level of growth. This is a problem that I think the representatives of the Russian electorate in particular should think about. They should encourage their national counterparts to view Estonia as their home and to see Estonia's development in a positive light. Only the creation of confidence will enable people to settle down, realize themselves at home and have children. It's not just that the pay is low, it's also a feeling that this is a strange place. If politicians are still instigating and raising all kinds of language and education conflicts, the situation will only get worse. It is known that the transition to a market economy and social changes created a huge demographic gap among Estonians in the 1990s. It's passing on. Today, this deep gap has been overcome, but it is certainly not the same. We do not have the immigration of young people that will sustain the ivet, and the opportunities of the world have opened up. When it is said that this is somehow solved by wage policy, we are simply paying more wages than in England, it must be answered, I am sorry, that it is, however, impractical. It will have a much greater and stronger impact if we create a more positive reputation for Estonia and help voters overcome their shortcomings in their competitiveness. I may be critical, for example, of the transition to education in Estonian, because I am not sure whether it will be pushed too hard or quickly. But first of all, I very much agree that languagelessness is a key factor that undermines the competitiveness of the Russian-speaking person in the labour market. Secondly, there are exceptionally good examples of how this transition without disparage will also bring enormous added value to schools' competitiveness. So encourage your voters! Let's encourage all voters! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U112	Minister, thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U113	Let's move on to the next question. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, responds to the inquiry. Please contact Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U114	Mr President! Dear Minister for Education and Science, I'm going to read you a little paragraph of the questioning text so that the audience can have an idea of what we're talking about here at all. But taking advantage of the opportunity, and already on this floor, I cannot fail to state how skinny may sometimes be the position of a representative of the government. To sum up what just came out of the Minister for Finance means that Eurostat predicts a rather sad demographic situation for us is responsible for Stalnukhin and what it tells its voters. In fact, the minister, contrary to the constitution, divides the voters into yours and ours. It's just amazing. But that's it. Let's get to the question. The subject is the level of education of Estonian students. The story is that the learning performance of Estonian schoolchildren has been measured in a number of international studies, such as PISA studies. The overall performance of Estonian students was high in the 2009 PISA survey. Estonia's good place is explained by the fact that most of our students have achieved a decent level of basic skills and that there are much fewer very weak students compared to other countries. However, it should be noted that the proportion of weak and very weak students has increased in Estonia compared to the 2006 survey. A similar line is also seen in the results of the average talented students at the international mathematics chaos lympiad. The Estonian team took part in this event for the first time in 1993, achieving 56th place among 72 participants. After that, the number of participants started to increase and the place of the Estonian team started to rise. For more than ten years, Estonia was the fifth or fourth tenth. The highlight was in 2001, when the Estonian team reached 37th place. Unfortunately, the situation has changed in recent years. The biggest fall came in 2008, when the Estonian team remained 73th among the 90 participants. It has to be said that 14 of the 15 republics of the former Soviet Union took part in this Olympiad and there were either one country or at most two countries behind Estonia, I do not know exactly. But I looked at it, and it really is. Both Kazakhstan and Belarus were ahead of us, which really had very good results, but also Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzia. The results of the 10th grade of the cross-Estonian mathematical chaos lympiad in April are worrying. In fact, even when less than half of the possible points were collected, there was a chance to win. In two years' time, however, these young people will be required to pass the state mathematics examination. That's our problem. 12 members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry. We are going to ask the Minister five questions. In terms of time savings, I'm not going to read the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U115	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to answer no 175 for the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U116	Hello! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good listeners and questioners! The day must have gotten tired of the questioners, let alone the answer. However, let me answer the honourable questioners. I'll start with a more general attitude. The introduction to the inquiry gives rise to the idea that there is something very serious going on with the Estonian education system, so it should be deeply worried about it. An inappropriate comparison with the former Soviet Union gives me the impression that some people's nostalgia has not diminished in any way despite 20 years of independence. International comparisons, made mainly for graduates of Estonian primary schools, have generally produced quite good results. Following the PISA 2009 test, the OECD identified Estonia among the world's most successful education systems with Japan, Hong Kong, Finland, Sweden and Iceland. This must be welcomed, but it is true that there are a number of factors that also emerge from these international comparisons and force the existing education system to modernise and try to improve it. The conclusions drawn by the Ministry of Education and Research on the basis of both international studies and other analytical works have been substantially summarised in the draft law that we are currently working on in the government under the modernization label of the educational organisation and which hopefully will arrive at the tables of the Riigikogu shortly. The keywords of the draft are increasing the autonomy of schools, increasing freedom of decision, less bureaucracy, more creativity and many others. The motivation of the teacher and the student is certainly not lacking in the keywords, and the salary is an important part of the teacher. So I think that, on a broad scale, international comparisons, including those at the Olympics, could be considered positive, but it is quite clear that they can do better. We have a very good opportunity to compare ourselves with our northern neighbour, who has indeed managed to get out of Estonia with a better education system. Now I will answer specific questions. Question 1: 'Has the Ministry of Education and Research analysed Estonia's results in various studies and olympiads, and what conclusions would you make of the analyses? ' As has already been said, we have done so. Most of these analyses, together with the conclusions, are available to interested parties on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research. So if the interest is deeper, you can get to know these materials there. What would I say here in short? Our elementary school provides a good basic education. The principle of 'University School' works well with other countries. The gap between the results of Estonian and Russian-speaking schools is narrowing. The existence of a number of weak schools is a cause for concern. However, there is a tendency to increase gaps between schools, by which we also understand that both the selection system and part of the funding system have led to segregation among schools. Many of the smaller primary schools are in a poorer economic situation because the money they receive is directed towards maintaining unsustainable upper secondary schools, thus reducing the quality of basic education and access to it. We, too, have noticed that the results of the international Olympics could be better, despite the extreme volatility or hypnosis of these results, which makes it difficult to draw conclusions from the results for one or even a few years. But we must take into account the fact that many countries are training their teams with determination and specialism for international Olympics, taking these students out of the ordinary school and subjecting them to years of special preparation. In the vast majority, it is characterised by totalitarian, semi-otalitarian or inclined states. I myself have encountered it in the Soviet Union in my own time, I know what that means, and I am convinced that the use of such methods in the free Republic of Estonia does not justify itself. That is why the Ministry of Education and Research has not planned any special efforts to achieve excellence in the Olympics. Rather, we have seen it as a voluntary and free self-development activity, not as much as a system of bringing medals to the state and party, which, unfortunately, it is in some countries. Question 2: 'The results of the PISA study show that Estonia had fewer top performers than the OECD average. What is the reason for the weaker level of Estonian students at higher levels of achievement? ' This problem is probably greater than a statistical error and therefore points to a certain systemic problem. This observation is correlated with other observations concerning the creative approach to education, the development of creativity, the ability to create more complex links, the provision of less attention to factual and knowledge-based learning. We are trying to influence both the practical implementation of the curriculum in schools and to change the external evaluation system, which, like the PISA test, should concentrate not on the control of knowledge, but on the development of learning outcomes, certain competences, competence. So such an observation is appropriate. For this, the Ministry of Education and Research is working with other partners. Let us hope that this work will bear fruit in time. Question three: '2009. The results of the 2009 PISA study showed an increase in the proportion of weak pupils in the population compared to the previous study. What is your assessment as a minister, for what reasons have the percentage of these students increased? ' This is a change within the limits of statistical error, and therefore very serious conclusions should not be drawn from it, although the possibility of such development must be borne in mind as a sign. However, in general terms, Estonia is one of the few European Union countries alongside Finland, the Netherlands and Belgium, where the share of students with weak knowledge and skills in reading, mathematics and science is lower than the European Union's benchmark of basic skills by 2015, i.e. 15%. So the proportion of students who are unable to meet this minimum level in three areas is still relatively small, but the increase in this percentage certainly deserves attention if it proves to be greater than a statistical error. Question 4: How does the Ministry of Education and Research support the development of more talented children than average and the preparation of schools for the Olympics? ' The Olympiad system and the continuing training of talent, as it has been organised in Estonia, are more of an example for many countries. It is true that this system has been designed during the Soviet era and still bears this seal. At the same time, it has been developed in a free Estonia. The University of Tartu School of Science, together with the programmes aimed at talented children at Tallinn University of Technology and Tallinn University, bears the greatest difficulty here. However, this activity is quite substantial in comparison with other countries, even those that are much richer than we are. In addition, there is the National Research Competition, the Young Inventors Competition, the Students' Scientific Society, the International Programmes of GLOBE and PSP, the Information Me programme and TEME projects, and a number of other projects, which I think could be more, but certainly not little. Once again, I stress that the achievement of the top results of the Olympics alone should not be and should not be an end in itself. Greater support for talented children in many areas of life, however, is certainly worth further development. Question 5: 'Matematically particularly talented children may have shortcomings in other substances. What support structures do special children need, and how many are available today? ' Special talent is a special talent and is considered by the Estonian educational paradigm, as it now looks, as a special educational need. Therefore, greater attention must be paid to the needs of such children in all schools. In addition to the programmes already referred to, which seek to develop a specific talent, we have also provided a service that could be provided through the development of teaching counselling services in the network of regional teaching advisory centres, where children with various special needs, including talented children, are supported, because these special needs may not, as they say, be their strength, but may also be their weakness. It is important that it is probably worth paying more attention to the wider development of scientific children's identification and advisory services, so that these talents, if they can be called such, can be found at an early stage and maybe also be found among children who do not show talent, who need to be systematically prepared at the level of teachers and school support staff. This programme has been launched in the framework of the ESF project at the University of Tartu School of Science. That was the general answer. I would stress once again, as in the introduction, that it is difficult to read alarm trends or very problematic developments from both international comparison and the results of the Olympiads. We'd rather be above average level. We know where our strengths are, and we also hope to pay attention to our weaknesses. As has already been said, the modernisation of education arrangements, along with a complex set of measures, is based on these observations and expert advice in an important part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U117	Minister, thank you. There's a question for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! How many children went to Estonian schools this September 1st?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U119	We can quite accurately figure out this figure when the data is received by the Ministry of Education and Research, but the correct number could be over 13,000 and less than 14,000. Unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that the overview of local governments' compliance with school obligations still leaves something to be desired, especially in larger cities, including the capital city of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U120	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U121	Mr President! I asked for more time just in case. Sometimes it wonders with what anger those who, during Soviet rule, received all the apartments, outdoors, high wages, ranks, medals, and orders Especially a simple boy like me, who, at the time of Estonia's independence, turned 30 years old, and 26 of these years had lived in a utility apartment, a barracks or a dorm, had worked as a charger and freight forwarder in a manufacturer and had earned a crown because he could not get away with it, etc. I think it may be entirely in solidarity with the writer Sergei Dovlatov, who wrote in one of his books that he hates anti-communists more than the communists. The point was that usually these anti-communists are ex-communists. There is no point in commenting on the answers to the questions asked in the inquiry after we heard the sentence that the countries ahead of Estonia in the mathematical champs achieve good results, because they are mostly totalitarian countries. Oh, my God. The Minister could not answer the only question either. I asked how many children went to Estonian schools on 1 September. I didn't ask how many kids went to first grade. However, I would like to remind you once again in the final speech of the inquiry that at the beginning of this century, 208000 children studied in Estonian schools, and ten years later there were 138000 or 70,000 fewer. We were promised that, after a certain time, the number of children in schools would increase, because this was supposed to be the case with parental pay. That was promised seven years ago. I remember very well this article, where it was calculated that this year, this academic year, in the autumn of 2012, the number of students in Estonian schools should increase again and this should be 142000. In fact, I read last week from a large weekly newspaper that in September of this year 134,700 students went to Estonian schools. This is despite the fact that children are now born in this generation, which is the greatest. It includes people who were born in the second half of the 1980s, when 23000 - 25,000 children were born each year in Estonia during the singing revolution. Despite the fact that parental pay had to work in some way, there are fewer and fewer children in schools. I understand why the minister is doing what he's doing with his ministry and why he's so nervous. I just want to point out that this is our common problem. In the previous question, I spoke about Eurostat's forecast; I am talking about schools now. If this continues, in seven or eight years' time, there will be a little over a hundred thousand children in our schools, and then there will be no longer a long wait if this figure decreases further. It's a real tragedy. In order for this process to be stopped, we must all work together. However disgusting it may be, we still need to talk to each other and make the right decisions. A great poet once said, "I don't believe those who say: I know how to do it. " We should actually consult. Including the teaching of mathematics, the fate of the Russian upper secondary school, the school network and the school system. As long as one, two or three men take the right to decide for the entire nation, everything is actually going downhill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U122	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U123	Let us move on to the next question, which is the fourth item on today's agenda. This is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu to introduce the inquiry to the public! Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, thank you very much. We made an inquiry into the effects of the opening of the electricity market on the domestic consumer 16 weeks ago. In a sense, it is quite sad to note that in 16 weeks the question is not outdated. There are still many questions about the opening of the electricity market for domestic consumers. On 1 January 2013, the Estonian electricity market will open to the full. This means that households also need to start buying electricity on the free market. On the one hand, it is clear that, despite the possibility of choosing the price of electricity for the consumer after the end of the electricity supplier and Eesti Energia monopoly, the price of electricity is increasing, as the price of Nord Pool Spot's power exchange is higher than the price of the closed price. On the other hand, opening up the electricity market will cause a lot of confusion for the consumer. Under the Electricity Market Act, the consumer will have the opportunity to change the electricity provider every month from next year. This option will ensure full competition in the electricity market and the consumer will always be able to choose the most advantageous electricity provider. Eesti Energia, who has so far enjoyed the almost monopoly status of the Estonian electricity market, is considering offering a fixed-price package to the consumer from next year, which obliges the customer to buy electricity from Eesti Energia for at least six months and forces the customer to waive the right to enter into a contract with a competing electricity seller. Moreover, the customer is forced to pay a contractual penalty for early termination of a monopoly contract. The communication manager of Eesti Energia has justified the imposition of such a fine in such a way that if the customer decides to terminate the contract before the deadline, it will cause the company difficulties in selling the electricity booked to the customer again on the market and may therefore damage the company. It makes it look like electricity is a commodity standing on a shelf in a warehouse somewhere. We have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. More information about the opening of the electricity market is likely to come in the coming weeks. Already today, Postimees had a thorough piece of writing on it. In the coming weeks, electricity providers active on the Estonian market should come out with their price offers. I'm not going to read these four questions. The Minister is more comfortable to answer so that he can read the questions himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U125	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'How is it ensured that domestic consumers are informed impartially about the opening up of the electricity market? What is the budget for the information campaign? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs, together with its partners, is organising an information campaign on the opening of the electricity market. We have the right number of partners there, including public authorities, but also companies. As much as possible, we will involve civil society organisations and non-profit organisations most involved in the subject. All consumers' mailboxes have been published to promote market opening. The website www.avatud2013.ee is open for information. The bilingual telephone number 6160160 is also open. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has organised an information day in all counties. A good faith agreement on market opening was concluded with electricity market participants in March. The market participants who signed the agreement committed themselves to providing consumers with comprehensive and honest information in order to contribute to the smooth opening of the electricity market on 1 January 2013. This cooperation agreement has been signed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the electricity system manager Elering, Eesti Energia, Latvenergo, Baltic Energy Services, Nordic Power Management, Eesti Energia Distribution Network, the network operator Ramsi Turvas, Kuusalu Energia, VKG Elektrivõrgud, EPT Energia, Elveso, Maardu Elekter, Estonian Electric Industry Association. In addition, Imatra Elekter, Sagro Elekter and Livilla have announced their accession to the agreement. The document will continue to be open. We have informed municipalities and business organisations and, of course, repeatedly introduced the issue of the electricity market to journalists. A special edition for housing companies has been issued together with partners. In addition, large factsheets are published between newspapers in the autumn, and there will be another direct post with practical information for all consumers. There is an advertising campaign on market opening. The maximum planned cost of the information campaign is EUR 300000. How much money really goes into this depends on corporate campaigns. We're assessing the situation. If necessary, we monitor people's awareness in sociological terms and assess which target groups need to be informed more than surveys show this need. Question 2: "How are fixed-term contracts planned by Eesti Energia in accordance with the principles of the open market? ' The use of different forms of contract, both open-ended and fixed-term contracts, gives consumers greater freedom of choice in an open market. In an open market, electricity can be consumed both on the basis of a constantly changing stock exchange price and at a fixed price for an agreed period. Eesti Energia has announced that it will start selling electricity on the open market on 26 September. The company then also discloses its price packages. It is quite likely that a somewhat more favourable electricity price will be offered to the consumer in the event of a fixed-term contract. As in the case of a fixed-term contract, the seller assumes part of the market risks, the fixed-term contract will have its own costs before expiry of the term. In this respect, the electricity market is not different from that of other services. In the case of other services, it is common for a service provider to offer a more favourable price to the consumer by concluding a long-term contract, in exchange for certainty that the service will be consumed by the consumer within the term of the contract. Such contracts are quite common for communications services, for example. The third question: 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has offered various forecasts of rising electricity prices. What is the projected increase in electricity prices for households on 1 January 2013 on the basis of the latest data? " The Ministry of Economic Affairs does not predict the price of electricity in an open market. I have also pointed out, in the past, the price of electricity on the stock market during different periods, which have been higher than the regulated price, but sometimes also lower. As electricity sellers will soon enter into contracts with consumers next year, we will soon all be able to see specific offers as consumers and the picture of fixed-price contracts will become clearer. Two things should be highlighted. Firstly, in an open market, the actual price paid for electricity in the future depends not only on exchange prices but also on the consumer's own choices, whether it prefers a fixed price contract for a period or whether it wants to buy electricity according to what the market price is. Therefore, no single price for all consumers can be predicted as a single figure, even if we knew in advance the average market price for the following year. Secondly, it is worth repeating that electricity represents a third of the average household electricity bill. The change in the price of electricity cannot therefore be compared to the total change in the electricity bill. The fourth question: 'Those consumers who do not wish or cannot choose an electricity seller before 2013 buy electricity after the opening of the market in the framework of the general service. How does the designation of the electricity provider for the general service take place? " According to § 761 of the Electricity Market Act, a general service to a small customer is provided by a network operator whose network is connected to its electrical installation. If the system operator does not sell the electricity itself, it shall appoint a licensed seller to provide the general service. This means that the network operator is obliged to enter into a contract with a seller for the provision of the general service. For information, there are more than 30 such network operators in Estonia. This is not just one company, as we often think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U127	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U128	Thank you, Minister. You mentioned that you have personally introduced the problems arising from the opening of the electricity market to the representatives of the municipalities. I have heard that municipalities are facing a serious problem with the opening up of the electricity market, because they have not yet received offers from network operators. At the same time, municipalities are obliged to tender to find a supplier on an open market. Due to the design of public procurement, there will inevitably be a time-consuming process, as there is a time-limit for the announcement and there is also a time-limit for the challenge. They're in trouble with it. Are you aware of this problem, and what advice do you give to local government leaders to get them out of this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U129	Thank you. Municipalities have participated in county information days, for example. If there are any current problems, we are ready to discuss them, and if the solution depends on the country, we are certainly willing to do so. The fact that public procurement must be organised and that public procurement has its time limits cannot be news to any local government leader. However, we could expect more professionalism from local government leaders here than from ordinary citizens. The opening of the electricity market was decided in 2002. If you refer to some kind of competition that could cause public procurement to fail, then this risk will exist for each procurement, but I hope that it will not materialise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U130	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have no idea how much electricity will rise next year. 13% or 17% have been through the press. I'm also asking if you can tell me if anything changes in periodicity. At what time will the next price increases be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U132	Thank you. From 1 January 2013, we cannot talk about any periodicity with regard to electricity prices. In the future, the price will be on the market, with Nord Pool Spot as one of the important and transparent tools. We can all monitor it online, we know its monitoring system. Of course, our authorities, including the system operator, are standing by for a real stock exchange to act as a tool. I can't imagine any periodicity. What is the market situation in the electricity generation market, which is a very fundamental issue. We know that our market is also opening up physically. Estlink 2 should be available in 2014, which means the possibility to trade in two directions and a much larger amount of electricity. It will certainly have an impact on the price that will develop in this area of the stock market. We know that third countries have an interest in coming here to provide their electricity. We know that we are making a number of investments in electricity generation, both larger and smaller. All of this together, in one way or another, will certainly have an impact on the consumer price, which we are talking about. Just in case, I repeat: this system, which will operate here in Estonia, is relatively familiar in Nordic Finland and Sweden. Looking at the developments there for ten years, we can see that the price of electricity has sometimes been very consumer-friendly, even far more friendly than the regulated price we paid, but in many cases, such as cold winters or other circumstances, prices have been quite harsh. We're kind of entering a new period. It is perfectly understandable to me that consumers are cautious. This is always the case with such changes. I think that a reasonable discussion here and outside this hall, for example in counties, is appropriate. In the introduction, the interviewer's representative pointed out that in 160 days, since you submitted an inquiry (you have been resting in the meantime), this issue has not lost any topicality. I would have wondered if this had happened, because the topicality of this subject is approaching its peak. I think that this issue will be very topical for about another year or so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U133	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U134	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'm going to expand the subject a little bit. As has already been said, only one third of the electricity bill is the price of electricity and three-quarters is the part controlled by the State through the price of network services, electricity excise duty, renewable energy tax and VAT. Now that we are facing a huge price increase, is the country planning to meet the consumer a little bit and review taxes and other charges so that the price of electricity can at least go down by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U135	Thank you. I can talk about the renewable energy charge here. We very much hope that we will arrive at the Riigikogu in the near future with this bill. We have reached a certain compromise agreement with existing renewable energy producers, which will immediately relieve the consumer. In the longer term, this relief will even increase. When we get to the Riigikogu with this bill, we can talk details. I think it will certainly bring relief, but the condition is that we can enforce this bill from the beginning of next year. I'm doing everything I can to make this happen. Right now, this bill is being co-ordinated by the Justice Department, and then it's going to go to the government, and then it's coming here. It's a real thing. We've exchanged views on electric excise. We have different views. Here, it's like any indirect tax. Suppose your understanding is that this excise should be abolished or reduced. This would result in savings for everyone, including your despised rich people, and for middle class people like me. It would make more sense to provide subsistence allowances if necessary for those who are less able to cope. The exceptions to electricity excise duty help consumers relatively little, it seems to me. You can bang that drum, but it's just like that. As far as network charges are concerned, I believe that the Competition Authority must ensure that matters are governed by law and that all the costs of monopolies are controlled and justified. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U136	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Mr Kadri asked how local authorities can make public procurements if they do not have what to do with the packages and they do not have time to do with it. But the state budget must meet soon, and it must come to Parliament at the end of the month. How has the state budget taken into account the future electricity costs of public authorities, whether higher costs have been taken into account and therefore revenue has been increased? You gotta be ready for that. How has the increase in electricity prices been taken into account for public authorities since 1 January 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U138	I believe that, by public authorities, this has been presented in a relatively different way in the draft budget. That is why it is also an issue for the debate on the cabinet. The Ministry of Finance should summarise whether, for example, an additional request for management costs has been substantiated by an increase in electricity prices by one or the other public authority. I think that those who have done so have probably based their assessment of the price of electricity generation in the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. Whether it happens or not, it's hard for me to confirm. The forecast by the Ministry of Finance is just as reliable in this respect as the forecast used by the Ministry of Finance to base the price level on the world oil market. It is the basis for budgeting, but what really happens is demonstrated by real life. There could always be some problems in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U139	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U140	Thank you. Mr. Minister! How do you predict whether the open electricity market will improve or worsen the economic performance of Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U141	As far as a particular company is concerned, the company's budget for the following year has not yet been approved. That is a very serious question. For the company, the result depends on how much it can grow market share, the changes in our southern neighbours and the possible impact on our northern neighbours. I think it is certainly more difficult to draw up a company's budget than it was before. This question can actually be answered by the company. I know that the budget for next year is not yet in place for this company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U142	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You answered about the consumer price that you are dealing with renewable energy taxes and said that there is no point in talking about excise duty, because it is such a marginal matter, but you did not deal with VAT. It actually has a very large proportion, the VAT will be the last to be put to the end of everything, and it will be 20%. In the government or in the ministry, is it intended that certain poorer groups, not ministers or anyone like that, should be given a discount here? I'm not asking for jokes. I'm serious. Where is the lever for the government or Riigikogu to meet people and make certain changes to VAT when it gets drastic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U144	The answer is quite similar to what I said about electric excise, because it is essentially the same thing. The government has not specifically addressed this issue, no exceptions to the value added tax (VAT) on electricity. The Riigikogu can certainly decide that. But if we make an exception for all consumers, it will result in us eating up teachers' salaries and rising pensions. This must be considered by the government. We want to raise pensions, teachers, rescue officers, police and prison officials' salaries next year. We basically want to raise the wages of all the good Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U145	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have heard for a few years that opening up the electricity market will lead to competition. Do you think that this competitive element already exists in the electricity market, or will it only take effect from the beginning of next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U147	I believe that we should look at this process in time for up to three years and beyond. A real supplier of electricity power may not occur overnight, who has an interest in entering the Estonian retail market immediately, i.e. to deal with the so-called end-users, who are known to have hundreds of thousands in Estonia. But I think that a number of changes and market opening will certainly lead to new entrants, including those who will work with retail clients. On electricity, I say once again that, in fact, we currently have overcapacity in the region, particularly in third countries, for which we have separate regulations. I think the situation on the power exchange will change dramatically when Estlink 2 is completed. This situation must change in one direction or another. As a result, the situation of consumers is certainly better than it has been so far. This competitive situation and the market situation will certainly not arise overnight. I think the changes are about to happen, but the new reality is about three years from now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U148	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, We heard that opening up the electricity market could create a new reality in a three-year perspective, but opening up the electricity market initially still means an increase in prices for domestic consumers. This price increase should not be so high, it could be softened through several components of the electricity price. After all, it is known that the household electricity bill consists of five parts and four of them can be directly influenced by the State. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications said here that it is not reasonable to lower VAT and it is not reasonable to lower excise duty. At the same time, they account for quite a significant part of the bill together with the network charges. The fact that, if electricity becomes more expensive, the state will receive more value added tax on electricity and pay the salaries of teachers, kindergarten workers and rescuers is, in my opinion, a promise of the future. We have not seen how much wage increases are promised. At present, 2% or 3% are allowed and it is said to be acceptable. But let's see what's happened on the electricity market before we open the market. We can see that the biggest price increase engine has recently been housing costs. These are the costs that cannot be saved, especially during the period when energy is needed to survive. According to recent data from Statistics Estonia, housing costs have increased by 8.2%. True, something gets cheaper too, like a communications service. But if communications can be saved, the cost of housing is inevitable. As we read the Statistical Office's press release, we learn that the consumer price index, or inflation, was most affected by housing costs, which accounted for more than 40% of the total price increase compared to last year. Three quarters of this, in turn, accounted for 17.7% of the increase in heat energy compared to a year ago, 13.7% of the increase in electricity and 11.7% of the increase in gas. These are double-digit price increases. Probably not going to be any less modest than this next year's electricity price increase. At the same time, we are talking about a few percent increase in wages. The government should not give up and say that there is no way to soften the price increase. The possibility of mitigating price increases should be used, which will also help people who do not expect a higher level of income from the country, such as beneficiaries of income support. It has not been said that children's benefits will be increased for all children or that all beneficiaries of income support will be counted equally in the household. But the price increases that are served to us as inevitable have the greatest impact on these people. These price increases can be hindered by a country's tax policy, which could be based, for example, on European perceptions. In European countries, electricity excise duty is probably five times cheaper than ours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U150	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U151	Let's move on to the fifth question. This is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U152	I knew that this question was about Elering and I did not mention in the debate on the previous question network charges, which represent a pretty large part of the electricity bill. That question is about Elering's expenses. Elering exceeded the news threshold in the summer by submitting a request to the Competition Authority to increase network charges again, and next year she wants to raise the fee by 13.6%. Another two-digit price increase! Inquiries who submitted an inquiry before Elering filed an application for an increase in prices have wanted to know the following: Elering is known to be an independent and independent Estonian electricity system operator whose main task is to ensure high-quality electricity supply to Estonian consumers at all times. To ensure security of supply as a vital service, Elering maintains and develops a national transmission network and external connections. The operation of the transmission network is financed by a network charge, which is fixed annually by the Competition Authority. For these investments, an increase in network charges is now being sought. As the change in Elering's tariff affects the costs of other network operators, the Competition Authority will also adjust their network charges on a flat-rate basis. In total, there are about 35 network operators in Estonia, the largest of them is Elektrilevi OÜ. If the price increase is confirmed by the Competition Authority, the household consumer's electricity bill will also increase. We pay the network fee to make the network connection better. On 11 June, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir drew the Riigikogu's attention to the fact that Elering also came to the picture in connection with the draft natural gas law. Auditor General Mihkel Oviir said that Elering ordered the first Estonian-based analysis of the draft Natural Gas Act, who was set up and set up to take care of the electricity network instead. Later, when this bill was already in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, two more studies were prepared as a matter of urgency, which was also commissioned by Elering. The Auditor General pointed out that such studies must be commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in order to ensure the objectivity of the studies. Inquiries also believe that Elering is not designed to fund gas research. Thus, he has spent the money of all electricity billers on a non-target basis. Since this is a company under the direction of Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, which is run by Taavi Veskimägi, we want answers to four questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U153	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! I will answer your four questions. The first question: 'How much did the three studies mentioned above cost? ' First of all, I say the names, operators and prices of research on the development of the Estonian gas market ordered by AS Elering: 'Gas market liberalisation in Estonia', Pöyry Management Consulting, 191000 euros; 'Gas transmission network ownership unbundling', AS PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisors, 8000 euros; 'Political and supply security risks related to the separation of the Estonian natural gas network', Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy, 2000 euros. All studies were commissioned under the Public Procurement Act and the Procurement Procedure and all studies are public and available on Elering's website. The second question: 'Why did not the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications directly order these studies, whose task and competence it should be? ' The short answer is that these studies are not only policy-driven, but the starting point for these studies is to a considerable extent linked to the business view of the issues related to the development of the gas market. Because we need such an impartial view as a country, the government decided on 4 November 2010 to task Elering with developing the competence of gas in order to explore the prerequisites, opportunities and effects of developing the Estonian natural gas market, taking into account the objectives set out in the European Union's Natural Gas Directive for the creation of a single European gas market and, accordingly, to plan activities in the development of the Estonian gas market. The use of external experts and the commissioning of studies on developments in the Estonian gas market were also part of the creation of this competence. So both these and future studies, if further research is needed and done by Elering, are primarily entrepreneurship views. But in order not to order double research, the Minister for Economic Affairs, by decree of 27 April 2011, is the Committee on the Liberalisation of the Gas Market, whose main objective is to coordinate the transposition of the European Union's Natural Gas Directive and the development of a genuine gas market in Estonia. This committee includes representatives of the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Competition Authority. If a country has an interest in setting its own baseline targets for research, they will be coordinated with the Commission for the liberalisation of the gas market. The third question: 'How was it ensured that the studies would be impartial if they were commissioned by a company that was interested in managing the gas networks itself? " Elering is acting in the public interest, as stated above, on the basis of a government decision, which provides for the expansion of Elering's activities as an option. As a remark, the extension of the sector has not been definitively decided, but it cannot be ruled out. This decision has been taken by the Government and has been supported by a general meeting with its guideline. These studies, as I have pointed out, and usually the initial tasks, will be examined by the Committee on the Liberalisation of Natural Gas in order to ensure impartiality. For the sake of transparency throughout the process and in order to ensure the impartiality of the studies, Elering coordinated the initial tasks of the studies you mentioned with the Gas Market Liberalisation Commission. So far, there has been no reason to doubt that the objectivity of these studies would not be ensured. These studies were also repeatedly referred to by Eesti Gaas in the discussions prior to the adoption of the Act amending the Natural Gas Act, which should prove the high professional level and objectivity of the studies. Of course, researchers are internationally highly accepted in this area. Question 4: 'AS Elering will be paid the network fee for the maintenance of the transmission networks. Is it not a non-targeted use of money when the company uses this money to deal with gas research? "The Competition Authority will verify that non-transmission costs are not included in network charges. All costs not related to the provision of the electricity network service are financed by the company's net profit, i.e. the owner's income. None of these costs can be included in the price due to the verification of the reasonableness of the costs incurred by the Competition Authority. Elering develops gas competence on the basis of the decision of the sole member of Elering on 23 November 2010 and the strategy and budgets approved by the Elering Council on account of the owner's income. This means that gas market research is not carried out on the basis of electricity grid charges, but on the basis of owner's income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U155	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U156	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to start with a reply from another ministry. Namely, national broadcasting made millions of investments in the construction of a new house, with several people on the payroll for several years. The expenses were made, and then they said that nothing would work and no one would be responsible for the money spent. You say that Elering has been given the task of developing gas competence, but it has not yet been decided that this competence will be exercised in this company. Can you tell me how much has been spent on developing gas competence, which is not currently Elering's targeted activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U157	Thank you. I just wanted to say that no investment decisions have been made. I understand you're not sure if any investment decisions will ever be made. That's what life shows. If it is possible to achieve real access to alternative gas sources for Estonian consumers and to achieve equal treatment for all gas supply and sales companies, for example, it is reasonable for a state company to make an investment, it must do so. Perhaps it is wise to do so by involving other investors, not public undertakings. I think both options are seriously under consideration. This all depends very much on developments in the coming years. I do not dare compare this activity with the construction of a house for national broadcasting because I am not familiar with the details. As far as other costs are concerned, there are. I am ready to report regularly to you on Elering's gas market expenditure and I also ask Elering for a separate section of the annual report, which you can read online. But we can meet here every month, and I'll give you an accurate overview. This is public information. I believe that we are doing things that are important from the point of view of the state and Estonian consumers. I want to hope that we will achieve a result within a reasonable period of time. But it is quite clear that if the current situation on the gas market is considered to be ideal, then it is a chatter for the blue-eyed. It is worth listening to a number of sources and looking at developments and trying to follow them. I don't think there's anything unintended here. On the contrary, these activities are very necessary and I think there may be more. But making an investment decision is something completely different. Perhaps we can invest in such a way that we achieve a good, real situation in the gas market and do not have to invest public funds directly. That would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U158	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U159	Thank you. The network service is more expensive than the electricity itself, despite the fact that when there is a stronger storm, people are still without electricity. The online service is more expensive than in Finland. There is another price increase ahead and we cannot choose the service provider. Why would the Estonian electricity consumer pay for research into the liberalisation of the gas market? You say you don't pay, and it comes out of profit. So where does the profit come from? Do you agree with the National Audit Office's conclusion that the money has not been used in a targeted way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U160	If you accurately quoted this conclusion of the National Audit Office, I do not agree with it. The National Audit Office must have raised the same question, which was also in the question of whether it is quite correct. I was trying to explain my purpose to you. Yeah, it's the government's clear decision. We need a company that deals with preparation issues. I think this company must be completely under state control at this stage. Given the wider interests of the country in the field of energy, we are not going to order these studies from a company that has completely different interests. In answer to the second question, this is not exactly the case. I understand that money is the same as money, but it still does not fall within the costs of the Competition Authority, as regulator, setting the tariff for the core network. Whoever manages this core network, whether a wholly state-owned company or a private company such as Finland in many parts, such regulated-price economic activities must not only have a reasonable profit because of the legislation and the rules of the European electricity market, but also because of everyday economic practices. That's what the Competition Authority has to take into account. It's possible to take the ownership dividend if that's what you want. We have not taken it because the core network is facing very difficult and large-scale investments, which are already being done. However, this is not a direct cost for the electricity consumer. It's not right to say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U161	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Can't be satisfied with that answer. I guess, in the end, Elering's only revenue is network charges, and we have to ask for the next question in order to find out how the Competition Authority has so loosely coordinated these prices that there will be so much revenue that it can engage in all kinds of ancillary activities that are not related to the statutory activities. But my particular question is: if the government decided to put this task on Elering and order these studies, why didn't the government give her the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U163	Thank you. If you're following your leadership logic, you should play a zero sum game: we could take a certain amount of dividends from Elering and give it back to him for EUR 190000 so he can do this research. But it doesn't make any sense at the same time. The Government's decision should still be seen as a acceptance that the business may expand in the future. Of course, when we come to an investment decision, it requires a change in the company's statute, etc. The company is not in any static state that it cannot develop activities in one way or another through the income it earns. But to put it mildly, it is saddening that you are writing this amount on the back of electricity consumers. This is not economically correct. An Estonian person is not stupid enough to be told such a story. He understands what profit is and what's written on it. That's one. Secondly, we must also look at the proportion of costs. We're talking today, I don't want to say the number in my head, probably a very small part of Elering's cost. But, of course, you have to count every penny. In this sense, you must be honored that you are investigating these matters. Once again, it is not written on the back of consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U164	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U165	Thank you. Dear Minister, The National Audit Office has pointed out that such studies must be ordered in the future by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Before these studies, did you and Elering have any arrangements, were you having a conversation or was there some kind of competition between us to order these studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U166	Thank you for your question. I do not understand where the National Audit Office takes the view that this study must be prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That's quite a bold position for a enlightening monarch. In my opinion, these studies, on the contrary, must be carried out by the company, because if these studies are not carried out by the company, then the starting point is probably a relatively long business distance. The thing that interests us most from the point of view of these studies is that we are commercially on the ground with two legs. There is no need to make any general, abstract, political analysis documents. In particular, the two studies you referred to in your inquiry have focused specifically on creating investment potential. It still invests in the end. It's important. I am not quite familiar with the thinking of the National Audit Office; I do not know how they came to this conclusion. There are many other areas (airport, ports, railways) where state-owned companies carry out market research. How can it be said that the Ministry should do this if it is the real entrepreneurship perspective that matters? However, these are different starting points. But we have to admit that we are entering a new situation in some form on the gas market. I referred in my replies to the inter-agency committee on the gas market, which has examined the initial tasks. It has usually been monitored that there are issues directly relevant to the state, government or ministry, such as broader policy analyses and impacts. It would be very strange to talk about some kind of competition. If the government gave such a mandate, then what we are competing for here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U167	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. One sentence in your reply to Mr Luigas's question set out everything. You said you were not familiar with the thinking of the National Audit Office. That explains this conversation pretty well. Are you still going to read the audit of the National Audit Office regarding the company you manage or curate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U169	Thank you. If I am not mistaken now, perhaps I have overlooked something, it can never be ruled out, it is not an audit, but you refer to one letter from the National Audit Office. There's a big difference. Look, when I say I'm not familiar with the reasoning, I don't mean one sentence. This statement should be backed up by clear arguments so that it can be concluded that some kind of study.. imagine that there is a study monopoly that must be done by the Ministry, and if this is done by one wholly state-owned company, and this is a very specific study, then the stories are actually bad-bad. What a position! I certainly follow what the National Audit Office writes in general, but I am just talking about the course of thought. Nonsense views, frankly, what do they give? What difference does it make who's doing this research? I have tried to highlight this view of the company, which is sometimes quite different from what is obtained when the study is commissioned by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U170	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U171	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You spoke very much about the company and the principles of doing business. But is it customary for the Government of the Republic to intervene in the management of the company and give the company the task of ordering a study?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U172	Thank you. I dare say, in my practice, that this is not normal. However, it must be borne in mind that this issue has not arisen from where, but we have been dealing with the so-called third package of the Gas Market Directive since 2007. This directive reached its adoption in 2009. Our government was faced with the task of implementing this directive. There were, of course, certain issues that needed to be resolved. We had to resolve the question of which company will do the necessary work if the government needs it, in particular, in view of the objectives of the Gas Market Directive. It's a relatively unique situation. I do not remember that there was much of this happening with other companies. But the uniqueness is precisely the result of the changes that took place in this area in 2009-2010 and are currently taking place in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U173	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Good fellows! Would you like to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U174	Let's move on to the next question, which is sixth today. The heirs have submitted an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. I ask the public to introduce Viktor Vassilyev to the Riigikogu's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U175	Mr President! Dear Minister, The World Health Organisation has set a target that in 2015, alcohol consumption in any country should not exceed six litres of pure alcohol per capita per year and should be close to zero among under 15-year-olds. In countries with high levels of alcohol consumption, intervention at population level is considered the most cost-effective and evidence-based strategy. Such measures include high tax rates, banning alcohol advertising, reducing the availability of alcohol and random checks on drivers. According to Emor's analysis, last year Estonians drank 11% more alcohol than before, which means that the consumption of absolute alcohol by one resident amounted to 10.6 litres. The problem is that young people consume too much alcohol. In 2010, 14% of girls and 12% of boys and 30% and 25% of 15-year-olds had alcohol consumption monthly among 13-year-old school students in Estonia. This is much more than the World Health Organisation has set its target for 2015. There is also concern that the majority, or almost half, of the absolute alcohol consumed, is strong alcohol, which has increased in proportion compared to last year. The need to reduce the number of alcohol users as a matter of urgency shows the number of people who died from alcohol - related diseases. While alcohol-induced diseases in Estonia result in the death of just over fifty people per one hundred thousand inhabitants aged 15 years and older, in Sweden and Norway this figure is within the limits of ten deaths. In relation to the above, we have the following questions for you. How do you assess the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs to combat alcohol abuse, when last year's consumption increased by as much as 11%? What is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to do to reduce the consumption of alcohol by young people? How will the WHO target for 2015 be achieved? In countries with high levels of alcohol consumption, banning alcohol advertising is considered effective. How high must alcohol consumption in Estonia increase so that the Ministry of Social Affairs is prepared to ban alcohol advertising? According to the Director of the Institute for Health Development, the increasing trend in alcohol consumption should be responded immediately, e.g. by reducing the strength of beer or the size of beer packaging and by controlling the availability of alcohol. As a minister, how do you assess the above proposals? Is it possible to implement them and when? That is the question that we, seven members of the Central Party Group, submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U176	Thank you! Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! It is always a pleasure to stand before you and discuss matters of interest to you. As the representative of the interviewees read all the questions, I will go straight to the answers. Answer to the first question. I would like to draw your attention first of all to the fact that, when comparing trends in alcohol consumption, it would be reasonable to compare the results of comparable studies. In fact, we have considered it right that trends in alcohol consumption have always been studied by the Estonian Institute of Conjuncture, using the same method. The Ministry of Agriculture ordered, true, a study from Emor in 2011, but since the methods were different, we asked the Estonian Conjuncture Institute to assess the consumption of alcohol in Estonia using the same method as in previous years. The results are not very different, but somewhat different. The result of this study was 10.2 litres, indicating a 7% increase. But it was just an introduction. Looking at the trend in alcohol consumption in ten years, we are now more or less on the same level as we were ten years ago. When the economy started to grow significantly faster, in 2004, 2005, 2006 and in particular in 2007, there was also an increase in alcohol consumption. It is recalled that more than 12 litres of absolute alcohol per person was consumed in 2007. In this sense, the last three years, 2009-2011, have been stable, all of these three years have been around 10 litres. Rather, it is positive that there is some stability, but of course we cannot be satisfied with it. Consumption must decrease. If you look at the measures, of course, as you yourself said when you read your own questions, the most important part is the price of alcohol. Alcohol duty was increased even twice in 2008, by 20% and 10%, and by a further 10% in 2010. Further increases have been agreed in the same way. What affects people most is also decided. As the data show, alcohol consumption is clearly influenced by people's wallets. Consumption 2008?2010. There was a significant decrease in 2009. Unfortunately, in 2011 and 2012, when the average income of people has started to rise again, it is evident that people are also drinking more alcohol. When it comes to drinking among young people, or to answering another question, many other questions are also very clear. I'm sure the inquisitors know, if not all of them, then at least the representative of the inquisitors knows that we have an emerging concept document on alcohol policy. We also remember asking the political groups represented in the Riigikogu to contribute to this work. The representatives of the Group of the IRL and Reform Party have been quite busy there, but we would have expected more active participation from the respondents. You only attended the opening meeting. If you had been more involved, you would probably have fewer questions about measures. The measures are currently being negotiated in working groups. We'll try to get this thing together by the end of this year. Then perhaps it makes sense to be a little more specific about these measures. In addition to the Green Paper that I mentioned, the Institute for Health Development will introduce a new Community-based prevention programme in schools. It's meant for young people. We have taken the example of a long-term programme that has been tried and achieved good results in Sweden. It provides for activities for children and parents as well as for school staff. We hope that the Institute for Health Development will be successful in implementing this programme and the results will soon be visible. It is worth recalling that much more attention has been paid to public health, including alcohol consumption, in the new curriculum. The third question concerned the WHO objective. Here, I'd like to make you more specific. The WHO objective you spoke about dates back to 1999. It was formulated in Health 21. Since then, a number of programmes have been reviewed and clarified by the WHO Member States. The last, valid programme dates back to 2011 - last September. The Member States of the WHO European region have endorsed the European Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy. This strategy, which you mentioned, was renewed in 2008. Looking at global strategies and the European agenda, both have abandoned the setting of numerical targets for all countries and, above all, put emphasis on taking effective action. All these measures suit us. We are not allowed to drive any kind of drink, alcohol is strictly controlled, retail is limited at night, there are health warnings, information campaigns, etc. In many ways, we have implemented all the recommendations that the WHO shares. As far as our own objectives are concerned, we are trying to set a very ambitious target of 8 litres of absolute alcohol per person per year. I remind you, we're at 10 liters right now. Therefore, this target represents a 20% reduction in consumption. We all have a lot of work to do to achieve this. The fourth question was about alcohol advertising. I would not like to comment on this further until all the measures of the Green Paper have been examined as a whole and we can look them in the eye together. However, I would like to draw your attention, starting with the following question, to the research of the Institute of Economics, according to which 70% of the Estonian population think that they drink little or do not drink at all. 70%! At the same time, 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per person are consumed. When people were asked who should be dealing with the alcohol problem, more than half of the respondents said that people were themselves. It gives some kind of guidance on what people think: I don't think I'm drinking, but I should take care of that. The fifth question concerned the proposals made by the Director of R&D&I. Of course, as far as the various proposals are concerned, they are mostly dealt with in this very framework concept of alcohol. Of course, when it comes to the strength of beer, we must take into account the single European Union market. We will certainly also be discussing whether the Green Paper on alcohol could propose to the European Commission to discuss Europe-wide alcohol restrictions, whether or not the strength of beer produced. If we regulate it even within Estonia, there is nothing to prevent merchants from bringing stronger alcohol into Estonia, or the consumer would still have more strong alcohol available. Such effects must be taken into account in the same way. Of course, in addition to the fact that people say that they must act themselves, it is very important that we have so far had quite good cooperation with producers and intermediaries. Self-regulation should not be underestimated. Alcohol producers have agreed, for example, on additional restrictions on advertising. In any case, when it comes to volume limits in terms of absolute percentage of alcohol, the example of alcohol producers themselves would be very positive. Some examples (I do not mention any specific ones) that alcohol producers have reduced volumes can already be seen on beer counters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U178	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a draft law which provides for an increase in alcohol duty of around 5% each year over the next four years was discussed, with a total of 21.55% in four years. An argument arose, which would be more important to prevent young people from alcoholism, whether to increase excise duty on cider-like alcohol-containing beverages, beers, etc., or on strong drinks. What do you think young people are starting to drink from, and what would be more important if they were to be prevented by excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U180	Thank you. I may be a bit of a lousy associate, because I don't drink every day. Even when I was young, I didn't have the honor. But what's happening around here doesn't go unnoticed. Studies, such as the same research by the Institute of Economic Research and several researches on R&D&I, have also shown that young people start drinking alcohol with "long drinks" and sweetened drinks. Speaking of an increase in excise duty, it is reasonable, in any case, that excise duty should be increased. It is very reasonable that a signal is given to the market that excise duty will be increased for several years in a row. The clearer the multiannual perspective, the better the next steps to combat alcohol consumption, especially among young people. I do recommend that Parliament adopt this draft as a law as soon as possible. If it is possible for you to complete it, or there is a consensus in the Chamber that it should be supplemented in some way, please! The increase in alcohol duty is, in my opinion, one of the most effective measures in the fight against alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U181	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U182	Thank you. Good minister! In some poll, 70% of people confirmed that they drink very little or no alcohol at all. One particular feature of alcoholism is that a person claims that he does not drink too much. So a lot of that 70%, I believe, lied. But it's not about old drunks at all, but it's dangerous that 30% of 15-year-olds drink alcohol at least once a month, and girls do it more than boys do. There is plenty of advertising for them, especially young people, because the old drunk does not have a big impact on the old drunk. When we discussed a bill banning alcohol advertising in this room, it didn't work. But what is your personal opinion on banning alcohol advertising or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U183	Thank you. I certainly agree that the provisions on alcohol advertising should also be reviewed in relation to this framework document. Such proposals, as I know, will come. What should we do? Let me give you a specific example. At the moment, if we detect illegal advertising, for example, a minor has been used in alcohol advertising or there has been some other advertising that does not comply with the advertising law, then supervision has the possibility and right to challenge the use of such advertising. In fact, it should be right to take that commercial off the air immediately. This opportunity, as far as I know, is not present, although this problem has been on the agenda several times. In any case, the advertiser shall receive his advertising minute and shall pay the fine which is imposed on him afterwards. In this respect, monitoring has not achieved its objective. This would be achieved if this advertising were immediately taken off the air if an infringement were detected and the infringement was further processed. This type of regulation in relation to advertising must also be incorporated into the law in this Chamber once we have reached a consensus on these proposals. In other respects, as I said, it is very reasonable that alcohol producers themselves will set an example. Last year, an agreement was made to avoid using one of the loopholes in the law. In fact, the situation was that if the cartoon lasted more than ten o'clock in the evening, but it started at 5:30 a.m., it was possible to show alcohol advertising during this film, which is totally unacceptable. These things are over for today. Such individual issues need to be corrected very specifically and forcefully in the law so that advertisers do not have the opportunity to shift.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U184	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U185	Thank you. Minister of Social Affairs! I come back to the debate on raising excise duties on alcohol in the Committee on Monetary Affairs today. As we know, low-alcohol excise is now lower than strong alcohol. The debate gave the impression that the former Minister for Social Affairs, Eiki Nestor, has a very clear understanding of which type of alcohol should be made more accessible by excise policy and which is not. Does the Minister of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs know whether studies on whether lemonade-flavoured alcoholic beverages should be made even more unattractive by excise duty? If so, did you make any suggestions on the draft excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U186	Thank you. I owe you an answer. As I recall, the National Institute for Health Development has studied alcohol use among young people. Viktor Vassilyev raised the question of what are these channels? We can track down this research on R&D&I, there's definitely some kind of support for these debates. But as I recall, we didn't make any additions to the bill submitted by the Ministry of Finance. I can review it, but if there are no additions to the documents that are in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I assume they are not. My personal opinion, aside from the official position of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Ministry, my position as a parent is that sweetened drinks are far more attractive to children and young people than strong drinks and therefore certainly deserve a higher price. When we look at young people's drinking habits, the price component is the most effective factor there. In general, we see in different product groups that the price determines the consumer's choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U187	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I think that alcohol is too easily available in Estonia. I read some materials and found that we have 43 times more alcohol stores per hundred thousand people compared to Sweden. As a representative of the government, how do you comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U189	Thank you. If we look at Finland alongside Sweden, the ratio is relatively the same. However, when it comes to drinking alcohol, Finns consume as much of absolute alcohol as we do. We can argue about what is more effective, whether to influence the consumer through price or availability. There are different plus and minus arguments. We know that the volume of alcohol purchased at night increased significantly, especially on weekends, as a result of restricting the sale of alcohol at night. People knew they had to buy, and once the alcohol was bought, it was probably consumed. These effects, which relate to points of sale, cannot be taken into account as one-off, cannot be expected to automatically reduce alcohol consumption if the number of points of sale is limited. It may not do that. It should be borne in mind, however, that in such a case, alcohol is driven further, sometimes by drunkenness, so that the effects of road accidents must also be taken into account in the assessment. These are the arguments that need to be taken into account for points of sale. But if we compare Estonia with Finland or Sweden, there are fewer outlets in the Nordic countries, but when we look at alcohol consumption in a purely statistical way, we see that these quantities are equal in Finland and Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U190	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U191	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have discussed alcohol policy with us here many times. In your previous speeches, you have agreed with the proposal to eliminate alcohol-containing drinks from filling stations. I would very much like you to have coal tablets or aspirin on sale in petrol filling stations, but alcoholic beverages would not be sold there. How far is it in the Government of the Republic to prepare a bill to end this disorder in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U192	Thank you. I wouldn't say we have a mess somewhere. In my opinion, sales of different product groups at different points of sale are regulated. There's no mishap. The question is, what are the choices which type of goods can be bought in one place or another? As I said, we could wait another few months and then send this issue to a wider debate. At present, there are recent disputes within the working group on measures. There's been a lot of action. I have the original version with me. There's still a lot of pages here. The subject has been approached in a complex way, with recommendations for municipalities, event organisers, etc. I am absolutely sure that when it comes to the public, we will be able to discuss this issue several more times and discuss whether one or the other measure is the right one or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U193	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U194	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, For a long time now, all of us in the Riigikogu and the entire institution have been called a rubber stamp. We're just saying what's decided somewhere. That is indeed the case, and it is so deeply in people that even the deeply respected Minister of Social Affairs himself does not even notice what he is saying, and he is saying very strange things. After talking about how excise duty has increased in recent years, he said that further increases in excise duty have been agreed and a decision has been made. I would remind you that, as a rule, excises are not raised anywhere in the hallway, these decisions are not made at Stenbock's house or, I don't know, Livikos or anywhere else. This decision will be taken here in the Riigikogu. However, we are told directly to the face that everything has already been decided about this draft, which has not even passed the first reading. We can sit here, talk, come up with an opinion, but it's a deal and a decision has been made. I don't mind excise duty. The higher it is, the more it prevents drinking, and that's right. I came here to remind you of that sentence. Sometimes we are told the truth in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U195	Thank you. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U196	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have no wish to say anything to you. I represent the Government of the Republic here. Yeah, it's agreed at the Government level. As far as your right to withdraw something from that bill is concerned, of course, if that is what you want, you have the right to do so. Make that suggestion. The clear proposal of the Government of the Republic to Parliament, which has been agreed in the government and which I am here to represent before you, is that alcohol excise duty will rise in the next four years. It is, yes, agreed in the Government of the Republic, not here. If you want to table amendments to this proposal and then vote on it, it is your right as a member of the Riigikogu. If you want to reduce the excise duty, it is your right, if you want to make it bigger, then it is your right too. I represent the Government of the Republic, and I am proud that we have presented a bill that provides that excise duty on alcohol will rise for four years in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U197	Minister, thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U198	Good fellows! Now everyone has the opportunity to register for a performance in a free microphone after a hammer hit. I ask everyone who wishes to take this opportunity! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U199	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Some time ago, this year was perhaps the most important event in the history of the progressive reaction of mankind, a punk group Pussy Riot concert in an Orthodox church in Moscow. After that, our colleague Raid organised an event to support this punk group ( President Ilves also took part in it) where this group was supported, because it is art, it is politics, it is democracy, and so on. After that, the Narva people were accused of, as if they did not understand what they were fighting for, that it was actually a struggle for democracy. I think it is necessary, however, to clarify this further, because I do not know whether you are aware of it or not for Pussy Riot, this was far from the first such artistic event. For example, if you write 'Pussy Riot' in Google's search system and add the word 'Biological Museum' in Russian, the system will throw a whole package of pictures on your screen. In fact, some time before the concert in the church, members of this punk band, along with their loved ones, came to the Biology Museum. They took off their clothes completely, and then they arranged what they'd call it... It was pure pornography. The three couples did so in a traditional way, who, on the back, the fourth couple showed that not all the possibilities were exhausted, but also other ways. All of this took place in the presence of the children and their teacher who came to the museum on a field trip. You can see it all in the pictures. I think that if the Rai were to do something like this, take off their clothes, invite guests, and organize such a support action, it would be more popular than a concert somewhere on the street. Before this event, Pussy Rio had been hanged by five people in a large Moscow store. It was symbolic. One lesbian, one gay, and three migrant workers from Uzbekistan or Turkmenistan were hanged. This is a very topical issue. If the Raid had arranged something like this in Selver or Prisma, it might have found support, including among the Narva. Democracy simply needs to be popularised, too little is done to popularise it. My time is up. I can only tell one more story. There's been another artistic action. Now, I'm sorry, but there's even a video on this event. When you write 'Pussy Riot' in Google and the Russian word 'crime', which means 'chicken', you can admire this video with your own eyes. One of Pussy Riot's girls went to the grocery store and stuffed the frozen chicken she took off the counter in her vagina. He did it with music, and the political slogans were all around. It was all videotaped. This had to mean that there would be a cultural event and a high-level political event. The end was great. Besides, he stole that chicken and shook it out on the street where people were moving around. I'm saying that if our colleague Raid were to arrange something like this... We understand he doesn't have much of this chicken to stick in, but he could take it in his mouth and take it out of the store.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U200	Good co-worker, let's stay, please, within the bounds of courtesy!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U201	I'm trying. I'm trying to be more polite than the people who supported this punk band in the presence of the president. In my opinion, they could also pay attention to other events organised by the same punk band and show us what they are really capable of defending democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U202	Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U203	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a problem, too, and I want to share that concern with you. Too bad there's no one in the hall with coalition partners. But I'm still talking. The problem is that the activities of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board on the southeast border are worrying me and many other citizens of the Republic of Estonia. Since June, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board started a reinforced inspection of all passenger cars, which bring a tank of fuel from Russia to Estonia, forcing drivers to pay customs duties and other taxes. We have spoken in this Chamber that border trade is the kind of trade that has been and will remain. The Prime Minister has also said that this is a neutral and acceptable trade. Because of the activities of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, this border trade has literally become smuggling, as the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has not considered it necessary to comply with certain laws precisely. I submitted inquiries to the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of Justice this summer. The Minister of Finance already replied, the Chancellor of Justice took some time to reply. But I want to give you a few examples of how the Tax and Customs Board complies with the law. For example, A drives from Estonia to Russia, the driver takes care of his business, and the car comes back with a full tank of fuel. The customs officer blinks and the car goes to its destination. Then the car B will travel from Estonia to Russia, the driver will take care of his business there, and the car will come to Estonia with a full tank of fuel. The customs officer takes the car down, the person who doesn't know the law pays all the taxes, and the car and the owner drives on. Case three. Car C travels from Estonia to Russia, the driver has a business visa, he takes care of his business and comes back from Russia with a full tank of fuel. The car is sealed, it travels to its destination, the seal is removed and the amount of fuel in the tank is looked at. There's half the House. The IRS doesn't make any precepts, but sends the driver away with the car. The fourth case. Car D travels from Estonia to Russia, the driver takes care of his business, refuels fuel, comes to the border crossing point. Estonian customs do not allow a citizen of the Republic of Estonia to travel to Estonia because he has petrol above the norm in the tank. Since the citizen has no cash to pay all taxes, the citizen of the Republic of Estonia will be sent to Russia to drive 20 litres of petrol and return with half a tank to customs control again. A lot of people who have met me have been telling these stories, tearing their own eyes. We still live in the rule of law. This behaviour by the Tax and Customs Board is unacceptable. I agree that the Tax and Customs Board must do its job, that it must, by law, inspect cars, comply with the law, but that it must not make random choices. It's unacceptable how they do it. There are already talk about the work of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, about why some cars are allowed across borders and when they have to cross borders, and there are also talk about bribery. I'm very sad to say this, but this is the situation at the Koidula border crossing and in Luhamaa. I very much look forward to the reply of the Chancellor of Justice, and in the near future I will certainly make a new inquiry to the Ministry of Finance to clarify whether tax and customs officials are still doing their work with a sense of responsibility. I repeat, this behaviour of the Tax and Customs Board at the border is completely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-17_U204	Thank you. Good colleagues, no more calls. The free microphone is finished. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 19.21 a.m.
