ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 39 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 62 are missing. The following members of the Government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister Kristen Michal, Minister for Justice, and Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U2	Let's start by answering questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have seven registered questions today, I will be able to ask each of them, in addition to two on-the-spot questions. Mr Vakra, what is the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U3	Mr President, I have a procedural question due to the Rules of Procedure and also to the time when I asked my question. On what basis has the Bureau drawn up the order of the questions that the question of Estonian Air in the role of Prime Minister Urmas Reinsalu, the Minister of Defence, has been put to the last? In view of the fact that Question Time is more an opportunity for opposition representatives, why, for example, as the fifth, Rein Aidma is asking who, as far as I know at least today, is a coalition ambassador. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U4	Yeah, I can explain that to you. First of all, we have good practice that the first answer is either the Prime Minister or the person in the prime minister's responsibilities. Usually, then, the questioner is also the chairman of the group, who is given the privilege. Then we will try to make sure that all ministers can respond. The order we agreed on yesterday in the Bureau is this, and this decision was consensual. Yeah, sometimes that's how it turns out. Rein Aidma is really a coalition agent, but the Minister of Justice Michal can answer back then. I hope, at least, that there will be time for that if there are no more procedural questions. But let's start now. Please, Mr Simson, the question to Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U5	Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu! At the end of October, you made a radical statement at the agricultural conference in Tartu that until Estonia is given the appropriate level of direct payments, our government will not approve the new budget plan for the European Union. You made a promise that the government would veto the budget of the European Union if the level of direct payments did not increase to what our farmers wanted. You are here today for the Prime Minister's duties and the right to veto that is the Prime Minister's. Can you tell me how this vetoing is happening at national level? And does Prime Minister Andrus Ansip share your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U6	Honourable questioner! As far as the European Union's financial framework is concerned, it is a very important issue for the Estonian state and also for government policy. The government has defined in the negotiations its priorities for applying for a higher overall ceiling for cohesion policy funds in the next financial perspective, as well as for achieving faster harmonisation of direct payments under the CAP, i.e. under the common agricultural policy, than is proposed by the European Commission. I can assure you, this is a very fundamental question. It is a question of equal treatment; it is a question of our farmers not being in a worse competitive situation. The government has shaped its negotiating position and the Prime Minister is going to the meeting of the European Council on 22 November with the position confirmed by the Estonian Government. However, this financial perspective requires the support of all Member States, as well as the support of the majority in the European Parliament. The question is not whether we are vetoing anything in advance. The question is that we must stand up for Estonia's position and for the European Union's financial perspective to meet the objectives of the European Union, and also for the money allocated to the Estonian state. Estonia's position meets these objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U7	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U8	Thank you! The European Commission has now offered Estonia the solution that direct payments for Estonian farmers will increase to 58% of the EU average by 2017, which is not equal treatment. What, in your opinion, is the specific level of direct payments with which Estonia is satisfied and for which Estonia will not block the European Union's budgetary plan? Does equal treatment mean that support for Estonian farmers would be equal to that of old Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U9	As regards direct payments to farmers in the European Union, the current rate, when we are talking about 2013, is 42% compared to the European Union average for Estonian farmers. It is obvious that this is a very small rate which, in terms of equal treatment, in terms of fair play, in terms of fair rules, in terms of financial discipline, we cannot agree at all. The European Commission has supported in a rhetoric that direct payments should be equalised. As you said, the European Commission has proposed to move towards an equalisation of 1/3 within the next financial perspective, which would be 58% of the average rate of direct payments in the European Union. The aim of the position confirmed by the Government of the Republic this year is to try to achieve equality at a faster pace. The position of the Government of the Republic, on the basis of which negotiations have been conducted and on the basis of which our position has been explained to the other Member States, will be 90% of the European Union average in the next perspective. The European Parliament rapporteur has proposed an intermediate percentage of 77%. One thing is what our application is like, as I said, we want to achieve 90% of the average rate during the next financial perspective. The other thing is what our practical outcome is. Our practical result must certainly be such that there is real convergence in the level of subsidies, and this is a clear priority for the Government of the Republic of Estonia. We do not have to like everyone in these negotiations; we do not require more or less than equal treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U10	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U11	Mr. Secretary of Defense! I didn't understand what equal treatment was. You were talking about 90%. Is what you are asking for and what your party's Minister for Agriculture means when talking about an uncompromising fight? 90%? If support is allowed below 90% of the average, will you promise that the Estonian government will veto the budget of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U12	The aim of the Estonian Government is to approve the new financial perspective of the European Union. This financial perspective is undoubtedly a matter of very strongly contrasting interests with those of Member States whose major shares can be divided into net contributors and net recipients. On the one hand, there is an interest in increasing the financial volume of the next financial perspective of the European Union, and this is also Estonia's position as regards cohesion policy, as well as the common agricultural policy, as important priorities. On the other hand, net contributors want to reduce the volume of the financial perspective and this is also the Presidency's proposal for the next debate. The position of the Estonian government is clear: to apply for an increase in the rate of direct payments to Estonian farmers, so the direction is to equalise direct payments. That's the perspective we're talking about. The European Commission published the year 2028. The view of the Member States, including Estonia, is that this is clearly too far-reaching. We are seeking equalisation at such a rate as to reach 90% in the next financial perspective. At the same time, it is clear that compromises are needed to enforce the financial perspective. However, this compromise must be preceded by the clear position of the Estonian government that we are seeking. The government is seeking equal treatment for our farmers. This is in the interests of ensuring a level playing field and the government stands for it. Our aim is to gain consideration for our position; our aim is not to veto. But it is clear that these negotiations will be tense. The pressure, as I said, is two-way: on the one hand, to reduce the budget and, on the other hand, to increase it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U13	Now two issues registered on the spot. Starts with colleague Tarmo Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U14	On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Reinsalu! The real Prime Minister said in Beijing a day ago that for Estonia and for the outermost regions of Europe at all it is very important to have connections. Virtual connections exist and contractual links exist, but physical connections are very poor in Estonia. Given that Estonian Air is currently in the process of closing the search, there may be such a situation in Estonia that if we want to go to Europe, we have to vote somewhere. What is the position of the Republic of Estonia and what is the state of play with regard to Rail Baltic? In the press, articles with headlines that sound like cry for help have appeared that Cyprus, with its 50 billion dollars, will draw us on the water and the cohesion funds will decrease. Is the Government of the Republic of Estonia as resolute on Rail Baltic as on agricultural subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U15	As regards the financing of the Rail Baltic project during the next financial period, the position of the government is very clear and unambiguous. This project is one of the priorities of our negotiations, it is important and sensible, and it responds to the interests of developing better infrastructure throughout the European Union. The Government therefore supports the financing of the Rail Baltic project from the Connecting Europe Facility. I would like to say once again that, for the government, the positions concerning priorities, cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, and also the guarantee of the Connecting Europe Facility in the next financial perspective, are not in any order or in contrast. For all of us, we have very clear rules on the basis of which we apply for our share of the European Union budget. As far as interconnections are concerned, the Government is working to ensure that they are provided in air transport as well as elsewhere. Passengers can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U16	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U17	Mr. Secretary of Defense! According to my memory, you were talking about vetoing in Tartu in quite a certain way, and now you are a little softer. I wanted to ask what reaction this statement of yours from Europe has come. It seems to me that you had a sincere and good goal, but perhaps too robustly worded, reminded me of the statements you made during the Georgian elections. Has there been any feedback or complaint? How has the European authorities reacted to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U18	As Minister of Defence, I can betray the secret of war: Estonia is also Europe. So how do we react to Estonia's positions? Estonia's positions are part of the positions of the countries of the European Union, which form part of the negotiations. However, I would like to say unequivocally that my speech in Tartu, which has been referred to, did not contain the word'veto'. My point was very clear. As we know, agriculture ministers decide by qualified majority on common agricultural policy issues. For Estonia, it is important that these fundamental questions, which also concern the position of the Baltic States, be dealt with at the Council meeting, where the issues are decided by consensus by the Heads of Government. It is very important that during the Council's debate on the financial perspective, a priority theme such as the CAP can also be reflected for us. Our position is clear: the Member States have their own positions and their own interests and there is nothing to be ashamed of to protect them. On the contrary. But what matters is whether we can make an honest and understandable argument about our positions and whether our arguments are compelling. In the area of the CAP and cohesion policy, which are Estonia's priorities, our views are understandable. We do not apply for more or less than equal treatment and fair play rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U19	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U20	Let's go to the next question. My colleague Neeme the Great has a question for Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U21	Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the government's aim is to concentrate an important part of health care services in larger centres: family doctors in family medicine centres, hospital care centres in the region. However, when we talk about access to medical care, an ambulance may be the only way to get help within a reasonable time. In any case, the importance of emergency medicine is increasing. However, from next year's draft state budget, we will see that the money planned for the purchase of ambulance services will be reduced compared to last year. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U22	We're gonna have to take a look at the bill together. The funding of ambulances next year is definitely planned at least in the same amount as this year's emergency aid brigades. If we are looking at the agreement that we have just concluded between health workers and the Hospitals Association, then there will be additional resources for the ambulance. We are also trying to find ways to cover the cost of fuel and other day-to-day maintenance costs for the ambulance. So now we are doing the relevant calculations and hopefully the Riigikogu will also discuss the allocation of an additional amount to the ambulance as a result of this strike agreement. In total, as far as I can remember, it's in the size of 1.7 million more for an ambulance. So it may be quite calm that the ambulance brigades at least continue to do so this year. If you look forward to next year, there is a plan to create more ambulance brigades in the country as a whole, not to reduce them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U23	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U24	Maybe we should do a little more research on that bill. However, if we look at the costs of the Health Board for the purchase of ambulance services mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act and compare this year and the amount of the previous year, the amount of this year is EUR 130000 less than that of the previous year. Probably there has been some mistake in drawing up the state budget, or there are some separate things, but in such a way that it is not possible to monitor the amounts. The Minister of Finance has said from this point of view that basically there is a wage increase in the ambulance and that a specific percentage of the budget has been taken into account. If we look at the budget, we won't see that amount there. If there is an agreement on an increase in the salaries of health care workers, what is the cost of increasing the remuneration of doctors, nurses and ambulance technicians working in public emergency services?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U25	I looked up the figures just in case. The exact change related to the increase in minimum rates and the increase in electricity and fuel prices that comes to the Riigikogu during the budgetary process is EUR 1749098 in addition. If you look at the total budget for 2013, after these necessary changes, it will be EUR 28,735 million on the ambulance line. This amount is 7.5% higher than this year. In this sense, you can be quite carefree with these changes prepared in the coalition, these changes are certainly being made in the state budget process and all ambulance workers can be quite calm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U26	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U27	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. But I'm gonna ask you for more details. We talked about the number of ambulance brigades, do planned changes allow this number to be increased, and how much will the economic and human resources costs increase? Does this change cover all these costs, or is it perhaps the intention to reduce the number of ambulance crews?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U28	Twice already I tried to tell you clearly that the ambulance service in Estonia will certainly not decrease, rather we are looking for ways to increase the number of ambulance brigades. There are different ways. One way is just to give more money, the other way is to look around the EMTs a little bit. If we look at the ambulance more widely, we now have 90 brigades, 63 of which are nursing brigades, 21 medical brigades and 6 cell phone brigades. When analysing the content of emergency calls, it might be wise to consider perhaps making a doctor's brigade an extra brigade and increasing the availability of ambulances in Estonia. But I believe that these changes are certainly not a matter of 1 January or 1 March. As far as I am concerned, the Health Board is currently conducting very close negotiations with the Estonian Ambulance Association in order to discuss all these changes to detail and analyse the size of the area to be served by a medical team and the extent to which we can ensure the availability of a nurse's team. All of this is currently the subject of negotiations between the parties. But once again, to reassure you, all Estonians at all: the number of ambulance brigades next year will certainly not fall below the current 90. Ambulance crews will receive sufficient additional funding for the next year to fulfil their obligation to raise the salaries of health care professionals and there will be an opportunity to cover additional costs due to price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U29	A question registered on the spot, Mr Pikhof, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U30	I'm glad to hear that. I know that you have pledged EUR 3.5 million to doctors-sisters working in an ambulance, or more to the ambulance as a whole. But the question is that we are discussing the state budget. Where do you get that money if it's not in the state budget? There is always a question to the opposition about where you will take this money if we make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U31	Don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said! I have never said that an ambulance will receive EUR 3.5 million. I have said that 3.5 million are the costs that arise in order to comply with the advance agreement on a collective agreement between health care workers and the Estonian Association of Hospitals, which concerns all health workers who are paid from the state budget. That's what I said. Please stay sharp! As for where this money is taken, you have usually offered to raise income tax or to introduce progressive income tax or something like that. We are, of course, looking for opportunities from within the existing budget. One of the most real opportunities is certainly the prospect that I have already mentioned that the increase in unemployment benefits is not as rapid as planned for next year. Unemployment benefits will increase, but less. I believe that this will make it possible to ensure in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu that the salaries of health care workers are rising and, on the other hand, to ensure that unemployment benefits are even increasing. The increase in unemployment benefits is not just as rapid as the draft state budget has now proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U32	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U33	The next question is from my colleague, Yana Toomi, to the Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U34	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, I asked Jürgen Ligi about the budget, and he suggested that we turn to you. This recommendation was well-founded. In fact, we are all used to knowing that our defence costs represent 2% of GDP, which is a decent amount of money. It seems to the common man that the defence force should not suffer from a lack of money. The draft budget for next year, if memory doesn't fool me, will have a 22% increase on the line of the Defence Forces, and that's the cost of human resources. But have you applied for any extra money to get military equipment? At all, are you satisfied with the level of military equipment? I am thinking of weapons as well as all kinds of so-called assistive devices, such as flashlights, socks, gloves, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U35	Thank you, Mrs Toom, this question is a conditioner for my soul! These are important issues and important issues. As far as defence expenditure next year is concerned, indeed, next year will be the second year in which we will maintain 2% of GDP. This is a very sensible decision, and I hope that Parliament will support this government proposal when dealing with the state budget. However, the procurement of equipment for both military and military personnel in active service will be one of the priorities for providing military equipment next year. In total, some €100 million and more than €9 million will go to special defence equipment, including individual equipment. By personal equipment, I mean uniforms, harnesses and other items that are in the personal use of a military officer in addition to weapons. Another serious priority, set aside by the equipment, is the living conditions of conscripts. Next year, EUR 9 million will be allocated to the training centres for conscripts to build new barracks. The aim is for us to reach a good living conditions for all conscripts across Estonia by the autumn of 2014. To do this, we need to create 1,200 barracks, which we intend to do next and the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U36	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U37	Good minister! I don't want to betray my age, but unfortunately, I'm from this generation where almost all the young men in the army served my numerous classmates and so on. Right now, I have a son in the army. His last visit was that we went to the store with a small list, and I bought him two pairs of gloves, machine oil, five pairs of socks and a head lamp. Two weeks before that, I had to buy him a knife because the knife they gave him won't cut him and the flashlight because his isn't on fire. They say it's pretty much a mass phenomenon. Since I have four sons, the social network behind them is quite large. I know this isn't a single unit or a single problem. Let me get this straight. This problem can be solved. It's not that I'm sorry about the money, but it's kind of weird that there aren't enough socks for our conscripts to spend so much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U38	As far as the personal equipment of conscripts is concerned, there are requirements. Both this year and the following year's budget have been established on the basis of an estimate that suitable equipment must be guaranteed in the prescribed individual volume. With regard specifically to the service of the people involved with you, I would first like to express my appreciation. The fact that your son is in military service is good news. That's very reasonable. As far as personal equipment is concerned, I assume these things are in order. And to modernise the equipment, the Department of Defense plans to allocate money next year. As far as these specific socks and flashlights are concerned, I can assure you that the defence forces only acquire working flashlights through their logistics system. And the holes come in the socks, i.e. only for non-target purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U39	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U40	Dear Minister, I'm sorry, I'm not asking for spite, I really don't understand! I got a text message last week, so I'm sorry, personal experience. The boys were sent to the woods for five days, and they were given chocolate, which had been "best before" four months ago. Do you know such facts, and have you received complaints with such content? Believe me, this is not an isolated incident. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U41	With regard to the equipment, living environment and training conditions of active service, including foreign missioners and conscripts, when I am travelling in units and talking elsewhere with conscripts, veterans, defence forces on foreign mission, I am always interested in these questions. I am not going to deny at all that there have always been a variety of proposals. There are criticisms and observations, but I would like to stress that the defence forces are subject to their own procedures, a general routine of how proposals to improve equipment reach and are taken into consideration. The development of supply procurement and of the logistics system at all is, I do not deny it, one of the possible future changes in the structure of the Defence Forces. As regards the specific fact that conscripts have been given "best before" food, under the rules in force, under no circumstances should conscripts and members of the armed forces in active service be allowed to provide food for which the time for realization is over. This clear rule applies, and if it is violated, it is already a matter of disciplinary procedure. But I would like to stress once again that the Estonian Defence Forces are the defence forces of a democratic state where criticism must not be suppressed, but it is possible for everyone to make their proposals, both close and conscripts and members of the Defence Forces in active service, both to the Ministry and to their units. You can also turn to a lawyer in the Defence Forces if something seems to have been done wrong or unfairly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U42	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U43	I'd tell Yana Toom that I was forced to go to the Soviet army, and that's where we ate cans that didn't have the "best before" sign, but we've gotten it all worked out so far. So there's nothing wrong with this chocolate. But I'd like to change the subject now. There's actually a big problem in the Defence Forces that young officers tend to leave. It is known from certain sources, such as job search companies, that ten people per month want to leave. They bring their statements that they want to go to work at a security company or somewhere else. Urmas, I ask you, are you aware of this problem, and if you are aware, have you examined the reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U44	The Ministry of Defence also has one of the most critical areas of government in terms of voluntary departure, according to the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The percentage of voluntary departure is 13. The most critical is the state of affairs in two groups: firstly, senior officers (these are the men and women who are the true teachers of our conscripts) and secondly, junior officers, or the actual follow-up of our officers. According to human resources surveys, in almost two thirds of cases, the main problem is wage conditions. Therefore, the draft budget submitted by the Government for the following year envisages an increase in staff costs partly at the cost of cutting economic costs and, on the other hand, through the additional resources provided for national defence. In addition, additional formations are foreseen in the priority areas of national defence, namely the Special Operations Group, the Scoutsbattalion and the technical composition of the Ämari air base. So I can say that next year, there will be a wage increase in the Defence Forces and, in the case of this wage increase, the priority will be those groups that are under the strongest exit pressure and where it is necessary to ensure that people are motivated so that the money they contribute, their training, their education and experience are not lost to the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U45	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U46	Minister, thank you very much. You spoke at length about the timing and the term "best before" of feeding the Defence Forces. In my opinion, it is equally important that an Estonian soldier eats Estonian food. That is why I am asking you the following question. When handing over the Farmer of the Year Prize yesterday, Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves said that in order to harmonise direct payments for agriculture, a court should be held if necessary. Do you think the Estonian Government will go to court with this? And if you weren't the Prime Minister alone, but the Prime Minister too, would your answer sound different?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U47	First of all, I support the president's thinking. But to go to court, I'll point out, get a final settlement. In fact, the presumption of going to court would be that the next financial perspective was adopted in such a way that this equal treatment could not be achieved. As far as the specific question is concerned, yesterday I had a conversation with the Minister for Agriculture, with whom we agreed that the Ministry of Agriculture would analyse this issue seriously. This has also been done before, it is intended that which legal entity should then refer the matter to the Court of Justice and which is the subject-matter of the application. But once again, this can be an option after the negotiations are over. The assumption would be what I would not like to take as a basis today that the financial perspective is one that does not meet the requests for equal treatment with which the Government of the Republic went to negotiations. As regards offering Estonian food to Estonian Defence Forces, I fully support this policy. The supply of the entire defence force, which also concerns our defence industry policy, is a very important element of our national economy. The Ministry of Defence also offers cooperation to Estonian farmers and processors in order to actively participate in and win the procurement of food supplies for defence forces organised by other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U48	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U49	The next question is from Mr Viktor Vassilyev to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U50	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. When the health care professional strike was stopped, one of the conditions was that patients' own participation fees would not increase. The Working Group on the Future of Health that you have convened, which is currently drawing up a goodwill document and where one of the parties is your representative, the Ministry of Social Affairs, also confirmed that your participation must not increase. But it's still increasing. We are talking about the money that is currently missing, which would be needed for the fees paid by the state budget, for the services financed from it. But the funds from the health insurance fund are actually in the health insurance fund. However, why is the own contribution fee being increased in the absence of all agreements, and why exactly twice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U51	So let's talk first about what this own contribution is. Own contribution is a broad concept. When we talk about measuring own contribution as a percentage, that is how much patients have spent on healthcare. The size of patients' spending has been compared to the amount spent in health care, and this is how the mysterious patient's own contribution is obtained, which in 2006, for example, was 25.1% in Estonia. 25% is considered to be a very, very marginal sign, of which the patient's own participation should under no circumstances transcend. If we look at the last three years, I am happy to announce that you do not know that in 2009 the proportion of patients was 20.3%, 18.6% in 2010 and 17.6% last year. If you look at this time series, you will understand that patients' own holdings have been permanently reduced. I recall once again: in 2006 it was 25.1% and last year it was 17.6%. There are very clear reasons for this. These relate primarily to the fact that, for example, ten years in Estonia, the participation in prescription medicines had not decreased, but if we look at the last three years, then surprise-surprise! In the price of prescription medicines, their participation has decreased from 36.9% to 33.7%. Medicinal products and dental care play a key role in the participation of 17.6% of the patients mentioned above. Thus, very effective work has been done on the price of medicines. The good Riigikogu adopted a legislative amendment according to which, from 1 October, the maximum amount of compensation for 50%-advantaged medicinal products was abolished by 12.79 euros. All these steps have led to the result that patients' own contributions have actually been reduced all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U52	Since there are no more heirs, I will stop dealing with this issue. Viktor Vassilyev, please! Why are you so slow?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U53	I'm sorry, I'm trying to be faster! Mr. Minister of Social Affairs, when I was talking about double the price increase, I naturally meant the patient's visit fee and the bed-day fee. These figures have been compiled, these figures are growing twice. How do they grow twice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U54	Please don't mislead the audience! All of you who listen in your homes, and all of you who listen in this hall, will not grow twice! This debate is certainly still ahead of us in the Riigikogu Hall, but if we look at the proposal of the Estonian Association of Hospitals, it is well-founded. Pursuant to the Health Insurance Act of 1 October 2002, the visit fee and the bed-day fee were set at the Riigikogu levels at 50 kroons and the bed-day fee 25 kroons. After the changeover, it was confirmed that these charges were 3.20 and 1.60 respectively. Similarly, the Health Insurance Act establishes that all ministers are obliged to increase visitation and bedday fees in line with changes in the consumer price index. This has not been considered necessary, whatever these reasons have been. I cannot explain the considerations of previous ministers, but I can say that the Estonian Hospitals Association has indeed addressed the Minister in this letter, where, referring to the rise in consumer prices, they have proposed to set the visit fee at EUR 5 and the bed fee at EUR 2 and 50 cents. This is not a double increase, but let's leave this argument, whether double or multiple increases of one comma of something, that doesn't matter. It is important to analyse what is behind this rise. If we compare, for example, the relationship between the visit fee and the average salary or average pension in 2002 and the relationship now offered by the Estonian Hospital Association, then surely the comparison is in favour of the latter. The general standard of living of people has increased considerably more. If we look at the reasons for this proposal, they are very simple: hospitals need somewhere to get money to raise workers' wages, plus heating and electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U55	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U56	Minister of Social Affairs! Hasn't the Hospitals Association led you into a mistake? In 2011, a number of laws were amended precisely in relation to the specific fees that were fixed in kroons. In 2011, they were fixed in euro and consequently the price index of the tabija can be increased by the day-to-day and visit fees fixed in 2011. So one year's change in the consumer price index, no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U57	That is exactly why I gave my first comment on this letter with a very clear message that a legal analysis should be carried out. The Hospitals Association has approached the Ministry. Of course you're right. The Riigikogu made mechanical calculations during the changeover to the euro and as a result the fees were really fixed 3.20 and 1.60. When we look at the Health Insurance Act, which came into force in 2002, the meaning and content of this law was something else. And that is why I am saying: at least as far as I am concerned, I am very confident that the Minister cannot alone decide on the increase in visitation and bed-day fees in the amount proposed by the Hospitals Association. I do think that the request for an association of hospitals is justified, in view of the increase in electricity, heating and food prices that took place in just ten years' time, but I have the feeling that it is precisely because of this argument that the great hall of the Riigikogu must discuss the increase in the visit fee and the bed pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U58	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U59	Dear Minister, We have also spoken in the Committee on Monetary Affairs about the current unresolved situation when uninsured people need medical care and go to a family doctor. You have also said yourself that it is up to the family doctor to accept them. But if the visit fee goes up, then family doctors will lose part of their income either to cover their salary or to cover economic expenses. What is the future perspective here: will the state in some respects also compensate the family doctors for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U60	Now I'm confused about how family doctors are gonna miss out on something. Family doctors are currently not entitled to a visit fee, and since this is the case, yes, it is true that the GMP agency has discussed with the Ministry whether there should be a visit fee at the first level. So far, the Ministry has considered that the primary level has been exempted from the visit fee. All people who need to contact a doctor must first contact a family doctor, which is free of charge. And when a family doctor directs you to an outpatient specialist, a person can go there. If there's no need, he won't go. I don't see a problem in that sense. As far as the family doctor's bounty is concerned, we have bounty-based funding for family doctors, the disputes involved are annual. If we look at the next year, the family doctors will have a bounty growing, at least for those family doctors who have completed their quality instructions so much that they will have the right to hire another family nurse. And hiring this other family nurse is also compensated for by family practice. But I'd like to keep these disputes separate from the problem of outpatient special medical care pay and inpatient bed-day pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U61	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Tarmo Tamm, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I ask you this: do you need an increase in the daily and visit fees to raise the salaries of doctors, nurses and care workers next year, or is there something else to cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U63	It's definitely a partial cover for the Hospitals Association. In the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, it was also proposed, in its original form, to increase the impact of the change in the consumer price index in the price components. Not as much as consumer prices have increased in recent years, but at 1 to 2%. During the negotiations with doctors and while remaining within the budget framework of the Health Insurance Fund, it was agreed with the Hospitals Association and the Health Insurance Fund Board that the impact of the consumer price index will be zero in the price components next year and this money will be used to cover wage increases. The Hospital Association had the opportunity to renegotiate the decision and to submit an application to the Ministry concerning the daily bed and visit fees. They have. If one sentence is answered, yes, the adjustments to the bed and visit fees are naturally linked to the objective of complying with the wage agreement for health care workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U64	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U65	The next question is for Mr Michal, Minister for Justice, Mr Rein Aidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President. It is a pleasure to note that, as a member of the coalition, equal treatment can also be obtained in Question Time. But, honourable Minister of Justice, I want to ask you this. A number of state agencies have been planned to move to Ida-Virumaa. One of the plans regarding the Prisons Agency must have become quite specific. In this respect, I would like to ask: what are the concrete plans to be implemented in the next year, 2013 in view of the transfer of these officials to Ida-Virumaa and their social guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U67	We have dealt with this issue before with the honourable questioner. As an elected ambassador from Ida-Viru County, you have paid attention to this. This attention has probably also been such a pleasant and useful means of pressure for the government to still complete its programme in Ida-Virumaa. If you recall, the last major investment and move to Ida-Virumaa was a prison with over 440 employees. There is now a rather logical continuation of this: we are moving to Ida-Virumaa, the central administration of prisons. This is the first central authority in the Republic of Estonia to go to Ida-Virumaa. It will be operational on 2 January 2013. We're working with the RKAS, and that's what they've found. There are 32 jobs there and about a quarter of the employees are planned to be employed. Right now, its preparation is going according to plan. I am very pleased that the government's action programme is not just a paper, but a clear plan that the government is following in Ida-Virumaa. As far as social guarantees are concerned, there has been some positive news in recent times. In general, the Estonian state has taken the view that no new special pensions will be introduced, but in the field of internal security or in the area of security in general, the police and the defence forces have special pensions and this has led to the movement of prison officials there. However, starting next year, more senior officials in prison service for more than ten years will be paid the third pension pillar payments. I think that this is quite a fundamental change, both from the point of view of the Treasury and from the point of view of a general philosophical approach. This will probably prove to be a good experience and maybe it will encourage other reforms to be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U68	Please, Mr Rein Aidma, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U69	Good Minister of Justice! As I close to the end of your answer, I ask the following question: does the government intend to extend social guarantees to move from the current special pension system to the payment of the third pillar pension, not only in your administration, but also in other areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U70	In fact, this issue is primarily for the Minister for Social Affairs, who is carrying this reform of special pensions. I can talk about my administration. We were based on the fact that, first of all, we were doing our reform and giving greater social guarantees to prison officials, namely that this is an area where there are quite the same working conditions as the police and the defence forces and where there are physical requirements. A person must until a certain time be able to meet these physical requirements, if he cannot do so, then he must resign. This has resulted in prison officials leaving to other spheres, either the police, the police, or somewhere else. This is perfectly natural in the area of internal security. If I look to the future, I dare to assume that this solution, which has been made possible by law a year ago, I am thinking of the possibility of paying the third pillar of employees' payments, could be the way of the future. This gives people confidence and in the future there is no need to predict that if a person retires, what these payments will be. The person receives these payments into the third pillar of his or her pension and the way he or she uses the money is already decided with his or her pension manager. I think that's a very reasonable way to go. And this will also make people more competitive in the labour market, as they will be able to choose more freely. Their future is secure in prison service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U71	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U72	The next question is from my colleague, Helmen Hunt, to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U73	Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! I am very pleased that, using both the European Union and national funds, new and very suitable family houses are opening up all over Estonia. An example is an open complex in Läänemaa yesterday. At the same time, such a service is generally used by people who are already in care but live in poor conditions. The overall order extends to several hundreds. As of this morning, for example, there were 334 people in the 24-hour maintenance order. My question is: does the 2013 budget take account of the increase in the bounty and, if so, does this increase in the bounty concern not only public authorities but also private institutions, such as Katikodu? And does the budget also take into account the need to shorten the queues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U74	It's rude to answer in one word, but, yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U75	So, please, the first question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U76	It's very nice to have all this taken into account. An unambiguous answer is also sufficient. The next question is this. It is known that a number of institutions providing special care services, such as the Haraka Home, are required to provide the service, submit projects and apply for money. They're not like public funding objects. Do you not think that, in the course of the reform, the state of affairs could also be analysed from the point of view that if, according to the rehabilitation plan, a special care service is provided for a person, this right will accompany him as a bounty. If there is an institution that provides this service, the person will receive it. As of this morning, 1008 people were waiting for special care, 428 of them 24 hours a day, one even on the basis of a court order. Although Estonia is the rule of law and the court order provides it with this service, this person had not received it until this morning at least.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U77	This issue is very serious. The order is really uncomfortable, especially when a person needs 24 hours of care. When we planned next year's budget for the government, it was on the table as an additional request. It is clear that we will not be able to close the entire order in one year. Next year we will really have the opportunity to reduce the order of special care over a multi-session year. How much this reduction is, these calculations are currently underway. We have to consider a few simple nuances here. Caregivers work in special care, and when carers pay very many percent, it puts a strong seal on special care. I certainly do not believe that we should create a situation in which special care carers run away, but at the same time the Ministry does not have the capacity to raise the salaries of special care carers in the current state budget as much as the wages of carers in hospitals. With this additional money, we need to be able to reduce the queues and increase the bounty in order to raise the pay of carers. You're saying the patient should have a bounty and then we wouldn't have a queue. However, we do have a limit on the financial resources, and that means that there is still a queue for 24-hour care, for example. However, I am now of the opinion that we will first increase the bounty and reduce the queues and then we will be able to discuss the major changes together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U78	Thank you, Minister. Since our time is up, I will stop dealing with this issue. Thank you, members of the Riigikogu, for asking questions. Many thanks for replying to the members of the government! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U79	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U80	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. And secondly, the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U81	Thank you. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 16 members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. This concerns the feasibility of the use of money by our People at the Integration and Migration Foundation. As we know, the foundation established by MISA is the aim of which is to promote integration in Estonian society. Various competitions will be organised to carry out this task. Last year, MISA organised a call for proposals aimed at supporting media projects promoting integration. Such activities should provide a clear relief to the problem and integration of the so-called various information fields. At the end of last year, MILA announced the winners of the contest, with a total of 12 organisations supported with more than EUR 541000. Among others, nearly EUR 77000 was supported by a project that provided for the production and display of a series of short films in Russian "Known and Unknown Estonia" on TV3+. The films were supposed to introduce Estonian traditions to the Russian-speaking auditorium of Estonia. The fact is that in more than half of the films produced, politicians who belong exclusively to the Reform Party are introducing traditions. In the lists, we find headlines such as "Political Mati Raidma and taming fire," "Andrei Korobenik from electronic Estonia," "Kristiina Ojuland in the countryside, underground and at sea," "The Minister of the Environment of Nature and Nature of Beauty." In addition, we also find the politicians of the Reform Party belonging to the local government as the main characters of these films. We have four questions for the Auditor General in this regard. I also mention that since 2011 the Chairman of the Management Board of MISA is a former member of the Riigikogu Tatjana Muravjova and Chairman of the Supervisory Board Laine Randjärv, Vice-President of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U83	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U84	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I submit to the proceedings under the name of the bill "Law amending § 177 (8) of the Labour Contract Act." The draft aims to amend the implementation provision of the Employment Contracts Act, which amends the minimum daily unemployment allowance rate laid down in the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. The exact daily rate of annual unemployment benefit is established by the Riigikogu State Budget Act. The draft State Budget Act 2013 currently pending in the Riigikogu has been prepared on the basis that the daily unemployment benefit rate is at least 50% of the minimum wage, i.e. 145 euros per month. The draft is due to the need to find a source of cover for 3.5 million euros, which is not provided for in the draft State Budget Act 2013 submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu, but which is necessary to find an increase in the remuneration of emergency and other health care workers financed from the state budget, as agreed in October 2012 as a result of the health care workers' strike. The daily unemployment allowance rate in 2012 is EUR 2,11; the daily rate is 31 times the product of EUR 65,4 representing 22,6% of the minimum monthly fee. As a result of the amendment to the draft, the daily rate of unemployment benefit would increase from the current level of 22.6% to 35% of the minimum rate of pay. The 2013 State Budget Act could set the daily unemployment allowance at 3.27 euros, or 101.5 euros per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U85	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. And if an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'll give you the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs, initiated on 5 November, the Governing Commission; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Environmental Charges Act, initiated on 5 November, commission of the Environment Committee; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Local Government Organisation Act, initiated on 5 November, Senior Committee on Finance; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo" submitted on 5 November, lead committee in the National Defence Committee; fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Afghanistan" submitted on 5 November, lead committee just the National Defence Committee; sixth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria" submitted on 5 November, lead committee a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of NATO's response forces," presented on 5 November, is a leading committee of the National Defence Committee; eighth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta," presented on 5 November, the leading committee of the National Defence Committee; ninth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the international military headquarters of the European Union," presented on 5 November, the leading committee of the National Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U86	Colleagues, let us begin the debate on the points on today's agenda. Yesterday we missed the vote at the first reading of § 245 of the draft Act supplementing the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Inara Luigas and Rainer Vakra. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 245 at first reading. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal by the commission to reject it at first reading. Please vote! 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 245 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U87	The third reading of the draft law on the protection of ambient air and the amendment of the law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote draft law 267 amending the Law on ambient air protection and the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U88	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mrs Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U89	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act 266 even at two meetings of the Commission. The first meeting took place on 8 October, attended by Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere, Linnar Liivamägi, Raini Laide and a few others from the Ministry of Justice. The Commission examined the proposed amendments. There was one and this was made by the Estonian Central Party faction. The Commission decided not to accept this amendment. The Commission also stated, in part, in the light of this amendment and the discussion that has arisen, that in fact there are not so many problems with the section of the Code and its specific Law of Obligations Act, but that many people taking consumer credit are not able to understand the law correctly and, as a result, cannot defend their rights competently. We decided to ask the Ministry of Justice to write a proper and comprehensive explanatory statement to this bill, which would also help to avoid ambiguities in practice. The Commission met for a second time on 18 October to review and evaluate this explanatory memorandum. Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere and Linnar Liivamägi took part in this meeting. We reviewed the amendments made to this explanatory memorandum and made some procedural decisions. We decided to put this draft law on the agenda of the plenary sitting by today, 7 November, we proposed that the second reading be stopped by 4; against 1, there were no neutral points; and to send the draft to the third reading when the second one is closed, on 14 November 2012. He also voted in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U90	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U91	A good performer, perhaps you'll introduce, what were the reasons that the Centre Party's very good proposal was not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U92	The Central Party, as you said, made a very good proposal to amend this very good draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act. This very good amendment, however, would have made the entire draft amendment of this law pointless. In short, the discussion actually arose from changing some terms. This is to a large extent a technical question of whether to use the terms "payment" and "repayment" alternately or to harmonise the whole law so as to use the term "repayment" in the future. Your proposal suggested not to make this change and to let it be as it is, i.e. that there are sometimes'repayments' and sometimes 'payments'. However, this is the very concept that has largely caused problems in practice and, unfortunately, it has to be said at the Commission meeting that people's ignorance has been exploited by some financial institutions. In order to avoid this problem in the future, we think it would be useful for the draft law to use the same terms throughout and, as has been said, a very comprehensive, simple and unambiguous explanatory memorandum to the draft has been drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U93	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As has been said, one of the amendments has been tabled, it is from the Group of the Estonian Central Party, and the commission has ignored it. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U94	Mr President of the Riigikogu, the Central Party Group would like this very good proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U95	I'd love to! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on an amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been neglected by the commission. Please vote! 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 266 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U96	The second reading of the draft Act 248 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I call on my colleague, Helmen Hunt, from the Social Affairs Committee, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U97	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic s. a The draft Act 248 on the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act initiated on 11 June and the related amendment of other laws was at first reading in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu on 19 September this year, when the first reading was completed. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 3 October. The political groups and members of the Riigikogu did not propose any amendments to the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft law at its two meetings, which took place on 22 October and 5 November. Lidia Soontak, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Rene Lauk, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kristiina Räälk, Head of Pension Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission made 22 amendments to the draft on the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and during discussions. Of these proposals Nos 1, 2, 8, 9 and 21 are linguistic and specific in nature, the terms and wording are specified. Amendment 3 however leads to a fundamental change in relation to the draft that has been initiated. According to this, the draft regulation regulates the transition from disability pension to early retirement if the person has already received an early retirement pension. The draft suggested that the amount of early retirement pension for such a person should be re-calculated after the end of the period of incapacity for work and depend on the time of early retirement. However, the planned change could have led to situations where the disability pension of a person who had switched from an early retirement pension to a disability pension ends before the age of the old-age pension and then the person would be able to submit an application for early retirement as soon as he or she is in employment, because if he or she is working until the age of the old-age pension, the early pension would not be paid. The Social Affairs Committee therefore addressed the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion. According to the opinion received, the proposed regulation in the draft is provided for by an infringement of the principle of equality. This issue was discussed very thoroughly at the meeting on 5 November. There was also a vote on this point. In favour of 4, against 2, abstentions 1 remained in favour of the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The Commission did not vote on any further points on this issue. Amendments 4 to 7, 10 to 16, 17 to 20 and 22 amend the regulatory provisions. For example, the obligation to set up panels to resolve disputes will be removed. Any appeal addressed to the Social Insurance Board shall be handled there by another employee or other expert invited from elsewhere, not by the person who made the decision. The possibility of involving experts is important. So far, committees to resolve disputes included, for example, representatives of disabled people's organisations. However, if the committees are no longer set up, it must be possible to invite experts to assist. When it comes to people with special needs, they too should be able to say the word. Amendment 17 repeals Section 7 (1) (2) of the State Death Allowance Act, which eliminates the conflict in the Population Register Act and the Civil Status Act. This concerns the presentation of evidence necessary for the funeral allowance if death is registered in Estonia and if death is registered outside Estonia. There is no need for such regulation. In accordance with § 4 of the State Death Allowance Act, the local government can require the funeral allowance if it organises the funeral and bears the costs. At its meeting on 5 November, the Commission adopted the following decisions: to propose a bill 248 to be submitted to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading today and to conclude the second reading. These decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are 22 amendments to the draft law, and we will start reviewing them. Proposal No 1 is presented by the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 2 and 3 are from the lead committee; they have also been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 are also from the commission and have been fully taken into account. The second reading of bill 248 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U99	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the presentation, I would like to ask my colleague, Yana Toomi, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U100	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft, which is today in this Chamber entitled 'Law amending the Law on Mobility, the Law on Public Health and the Law on Medicines'. The draft 257 came into being with a second title, which was "the law amending the law on medicine." The first reading of the draft act was held on 19 September 2012 and was discussed by the Commission at its meetings on 16 and 22 October and 5 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took part in these meetings. On the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and during the debate, the Commission proposed four amendments to the draft. The first amendment proposes changing the title of the law and calling it a law to amend the Traffic Act, the Public Health Act and the Pharmaceutical Act instead of the Pharmaceutical Act, because it is not a norm technical amendment, but a change to the three laws. The second proposal concerns the amendment of the provisions implementing the Road Traffic Act. The draft stipulates that the medical certificate of the applicant for the right to drive must be transmitted to the Public Road Administration in real time through the Health Information System. The Committee on Traffic Medicine wants to postpone the entry into force of this provision by one calendar year, as it is not technically feasible in the past. Amendment 3 concerns the intention to change the principle of data transmission and to give healthcare providers the choice of whether data are transmitted digitally to the database via the Health Information System or digitally via another data exchange channel or in paper form. The fourth amendment concerns the provision implementing the Road Traffic Act: its amendment should enter into force on 19 January 2013. All the amendments were supported by consensus by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There are no requests, we are not opening negotiations. Let us examine the amendments, four of them. All proposals have been presented by the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 257 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U102	We will begin the first reading of the Bill 242 on Amending and Supplementing the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Urve Palo, member of the Riigikogu, will present a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U103	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, With this bill, the Social Democrats have been before you over the years to look at their tens of times. I am fortunate to present the bill for the second time, but in a very short time. The last time we talked about this issue in May, and then the discussion here had the impression that it was still quite good ideas and that, after some changes that would make the draft even better, it could also find support on the right side of the hall, or on the coalition side. I have been in the Riigikogu for quite a while, I still have enough naivety to believe that your desire to accept this bill in a good way as a modern one really exists. So I made changes to those points that were criticised in the spring and I re-submitted the draft at the end of May. I very much hope that the man and woman from the word, the bull from the horn, or what they say. If this bill were to be adopted and implemented, what would happen? As a result, the investments made by the employer in the health, health promotion and sports activities of EUR 400 per calendar year would change again: in the calendar year! A tax-free, i.e. a special tax-free. Many of you have worked in the private sector and you may have experienced how difficult it is to go through this gauntlet when a company has to apply for a special tax exemption for the health check of its employees. This system is very complex and it is really very difficult for companies to prove that a proper heart, lung and kidney are necessary for working. I am sure that many companies would allow workers at their own expense to have a thorough health check if the state were to exempt it from the special preferential tax. After all, we know that a healthy person is of great value to the company, and ultimately it is cheaper for the company and the employee to prevent the disease and to start treatment at the right time, both for themselves and for society as a whole. Alas, a person does not tend to control his own health. It always seems there's something more important to do and something more important to use money for. If employers had the opportunity to invest tax-free in the health surveillance of their workers, it would certainly be used more. It's the same with sports. At present, paying the employees' room bills costs the employer nearly 70% more than the amount shown on the bill. After all, this money could be used to its fullest extent in the interests of human health. I am convinced that if companies could tax-free support for employee sport, in the end, there would be a lot more people doing sport. I am especially concerned about those whose wages are low. After all, we know that more than half of the employees in Estonia receive lower than the average wage in the country, and these people have total income for their children's education, transport, home and family support. A large part of the sport of health and exercise in general must be abandoned. You can see today's weather outside in this weather doesn't tend to run into the woods, but it could be bad for your health. This includes vaccination against influenza or tick bites, as well as dental care. The current situation is that, while the employer may invest in machinery and equipment in his company without special tax exemption and without limit, if money is to be allocated for the benefit of people, workers, the state will immediately completely cut the taxes. But it is the 21st century, and somewhere, a logic error has been made, we know that, ultimately, healthy people are giving a competitive advantage to the company and to the economy as a whole. Speaking of sport, the studies have established that only 21% of people are currently regularly engaged in sports in Estonia, 2 to 3 times a week. And unfortunately, half of Estonian adults are either overweight or obese. After all, we can say that all of this is man's own doing and that health is in man's own hands and so on. That's right on the one hand. But on the other hand, there's always something else to do. If the employer, if the state does not direct the person to maintain and strengthen his or her health, this is not reasonable. What are the possibilities for the state to have a positive influence on the behaviour of people and businesses? It is precisely through the tax system that the greatest opportunities are available. There aren't many levers. Yes, the National Institute for Health Development occasionally makes campaigns and talks about what is, of course, also important. But it would also have a serious impact if the state, through the tax system, showed that this was an important area and that the state favored investment in it in every way. I would point out here that this does not mean that these EUR 400 per year, or EUR 33 per employee per month, would be the money that the state gives to entrepreneurs to invest in people. It's not like that! This money must be found by the company itself, invested by itself, it is the company's money. But an entrepreneur would rather do so if he did not have to pay an additional tax on that amount. Finally, I would like to call on everyone to support this bill. I would like to thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs wholeheartedly, where this was the subject of the debate. I would like to thank Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for his support from the coalition, as well as the committee's facilitator of this draft. You could say, "Man of the word, bull of the horn!" I very much hope that today we are in favour of continuing the debate on this draft and will not traditionally reject it. Then it will not disappear into a bottomless Commission drawer, but will remain visible on the table. I am sure you will also make good suggestions on how to make this bill even better - there is always something that can be made better. I dare say that we, myself and the other Social Democrats, are very flexible and are waiting for your proposals on how to make the bill even better. Good thoughts are all welcome! It is still important that businesses can, at one time, invest a certain amount in promoting the health of their workers in a tax-free way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U104	Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! This bill is undoubtedly supportive and promoting sport and healthy movement at all. But I'm going to be more specific about these questions. First of all, on the amendment of § 48, supplemented by paragraph 10. Point 1 of this section refers to the acquisition of medical aids. I want to know what tools are meant. Secondly, point 2 of that same paragraph states the wording "coverage of rental costs related to the use of a sports facility, including membership fees for sports clubs and access to sports facilities'. Do you think these are the only options for a health sport, or do you think there are other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U106	Thanks for the questions. I'll start with the first one. The first point of this paragraph does indeed refer to the payment for healthcare, including the purchase of medical aids. What is health care anyway? This is well explained in the Health Services Act. It says this: "Health care is a health care professional's activity in preventing, diagnosing and treating illness, injury, or poisoning with the aim of alleviating a person's distress, preventing a worsening of his or her health or an exacerbation of his or her illness, and restoring his or her health. The list of health services shall be established by the Minister of Social Affairs. " So we don't have to start inventing this on our own. The same is true with medical aids, and this cannot be decided by the head of the company whether a device is a medical aid or not. It's very clearly regulated. Now the second question: is this the final list in point 2 of this paragraph, which talks about covering the rental costs of sports facilities and tickets and membership fees? Is there anything final in life? Everything can always be improved and improved, and this is now one of the wording options. It is meant that an entrepreneur makes a decision, for example, to pay rent if his employees, for example, swim once or twice a week or play basketball, or whatever the collective teamwork could be. But the entrepreneur can also make a very democratic decision and let each person choose whether he or she will give a swimming pool or gym pass, or whether he or she will attend some other training. There are many different trainings and people also have very different desires. In this sense, I personally am in favour of a company being able to choose whether to support it with a rent or by paying part of the tickets. If there are good proposals to include here, if something very important is missing, I think that after the first reading we will have time to discuss new proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U107	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U108	Honourable waitress! I have here a letter from the Ministry of Finance from 2009, which is a statement of opinion on a draft of 478. Indeed, its content, as is the case today, has been dealt with dozens of times. At the time, this was a draft initiated by the Centre Party. This statement has been signed by Minister Ivari Padar. He said: "The concept of health promotion is inappropriate for the Income Tax Act. " He claimed that budget revenue was decreasing and that the indirect impact on wage growth made it very difficult to estimate the amount of this expenditure. And thirdly, the Government Union does not foresee any new tax incentives, nor does it provide for special incentives, because they are not justified. I ask: now that the pressure of the Riigikogu to provide additional tax distinctions has increased, do these wise words of Ivari Padar not take on much importance? I would like to emphasise them specifically on your draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U109	Now I should quote the classics, and that is the current Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, who would answer such a question that he did not understand the question. What exactly did you ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U110	Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U111	Good waitress! I would like to ask why you are holding back some of the people's desire to engage in health sports with this bill. In particular, you want to compensate for certain costs associated with covering the rental costs of the facilities, while those who could run freely under the forest are excluded from it. You're giving a signal not to go into the woods, but to go somewhere else. Talking about sometimes the weather is bad or the weather is always what it is, maybe you just don't know how to choose sports clothes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U112	Good questioner, I'm sure they don't want to leave anyone out of this. As I said, this is not a commitment either for an entrepreneur or for a person. It is merely an opportunity and an indication of the direction that promoting health is an important area on which the state wishes to pay attention. But if a person really loves a forest run, regardless of the weather, then I think he may need to fix his teeth from time to time, for example. So he's using the discount to go to the dentist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U113	Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U114	Dear colleague, I will continue with Kalev Lillo's question. Suppose this bill becomes a law. I have been an entrepreneur myself for a long time. I, as an entrepreneur, would have a lot of questions. I would like, on the one hand, to be law-abiding, but on the other hand, to make the most of the opportunities afforded by the law. Our entrepreneurs are resourceful. I created a word like health sports into Google. The first thing that opened was a spa commercial. By reading the law, it seems perfectly legitimate to rent a spa sauna complex and go there to refresh health with the whole group. However, one later article by Google says that health sports is a exercise that aims to maintain or improve health status and that there are different opportunities for health sports: walking, running, cycling, roller skating and swimming. Reading this bill gives the impression that these costs cannot be reimbursed. How do you define the word "health sport"? Without any irony.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U115	But I haven't written a word like health sports into this bill. That's not why it's very hard to define. There has been a very specific talk here about paying for healthcare. What are the health services, it is stated in the Health Services Organisation Act. There is also talk of covering the rental costs related to the use of sports facilities, including membership fees for sports clubs and access to sports facilities. There is no mention of direct health sports costs. But as an entrepreneur, I would say that if people bring me any checks, for example, EUR 33 per month is the amount of the company's willingness to pay for the health promotion costs of its employees. As an entrepreneur, my interest is not to pay for anything. It's my expense, after all, it's an investment in a person, but it's a cost for a company. My interest is that a person would really promote his health for this money and be healthy, not just going to the sauna. I think it is not possible to regulate everything to the end in life. We must believe in the common sense of entrepreneurs and business leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U116	Please, Mr Jüri Jaanson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U117	To comment on this, health sports actually have a very simple and clear definition. But if we're talking about sports and sports in the first place, what's the end of this bill? Sport in the wider sense also includes extreme sports, which are actually very damaging. How this would benefit the state or the employer is a question of its own. You have identified many indirect reasons for supporting this draft. One of them was the fight against obesity. But now I ask you, do you think the fight against obesity is more about changing eating habits or sports?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U118	After your comment, I would say that, indeed, compensation for the health port costs of employees is not considered as a special advantage. But this is specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 below. As far as extreme sport is concerned, I say as before to the previous questioner: the employer has no obligation, for example, to pay EUR 33 per month. His interest is that if he pays the money, the person's health is likely to improve or to remain in order. If the employer pays for extreme sports, he must really consider that this could lead to injury. Accidents can, of course, happen anywhere, even on the street, but, in my opinion, if it is really an extreme sport, a reasonable entrepreneur would not pay the bill. But what did you ask? I forgot the other half. About obesity, huh? The issue of obesity, of course, is also a medical issue. I'm not a doctor to answer that question, but usually a combination of healthy eating and a healthy lifestyle helps against obesity at all. It also requires exercise. But I'm definitely not going to lecture you on how to fight obesity right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U119	Please, Mr Sõerd, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U120	Honourable waitress! I'll try to ask you again, maybe this time it's understandable. Once Minister Ivari Padar says in his opinion letter on an analogous draft that the term "promotion of health" is inappropriate for the purposes of the Income Tax Act because of its excessive spread. Secondly, as a result of this change, the revenue from the state budget is reduced and the indirect impact on wage growth is difficult to predict. Thirdly, it is not appropriate at all to introduce new tax incentives, tax differentiations. I absolutely agree with those wise thoughts of Ivar Padari. If you don't agree with them, please tell me, what's wrong with Ivar Padar?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U121	I do not consider it right to comment on the views of former finance ministers. You have once been Minister of Finance, and you have the right to have a different view today, this is your democratic right. As far as income foregone is concerned, it is estimated to be less than EUR 1 million per year. These are not the very large amounts that we are talking about. As we know, every euro or crown or any other currency put in the process of promoting human health, according to WHO, three units return the same money. In the long term, this is in any case a good investment. Perhaps employers are now expected to reduce their employees' salaries by around EUR 33 per month. This is not to say that workers agree that wages are being reduced. So it could still be an additional opportunity. I believe that many employers are going along with this, not afraid, but I very much hope so. That is the aim, after all, that there should be as many entrepreneurs as possible willing to pay EUR 33 per month to promote the health of every worker. Of course, their interest is to ensure that this EUR 33 is used in a targeted way, for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is necessary to know whether the extra cost has gone to the right place to maintain human health and, secondly, that the tax administration will later check the company's accounts and also these receipts. It is believed that most companies do not want to deal with tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U122	Colleagues Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U123	Good waitress! First of all, I would like to say that this is a very good bill, and there is nothing wrong with part of the health sports pay being paid to employees. But there are two questions. This takes place emphatically through the entrepreneur, and perhaps there may be a problem that the entrepreneur rents halls and swimming pools, but only two of his 40 employees go there and the money goes like the Lord's flock. Maybe we could approach the other way around: we each have EUR 33 in our pockets every month and we spend, we take the checks and we keep them, and if we declare our income tax, we get our income tax back. This is how we win two things: there will be no social tax left over and we will just get the tax back.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U124	That's one way. As regards the fact that there is a swimming pool and only two people go there, since the entrepreneur has to pay for it, he will probably end it sooner or later. Why does he have to pay for a swimming pool for 40 people, for example, in the interests of two people? It's too expensive for him, and it's not practical. Businessman, believe me, he can handle his money. As regards the second proposal that a person makes this cost, later declares and receives income tax back, for example, in Finland, this option is at least used and, as far as I know, it is still being used, that if people renovate their houses, they will receive a certain amount of income tax back a year if the house's thermal insulation has been increased. It's one way to go, but there's one way to go. It is a fact that a person still has to come up with this 33 euros every month. He needs to know to himself that health is important, and I'm gonna make that money. It'll be 400 euros a year, and one day, in a year, I'll get that money back. It can work for some, and it's definitely better than nothing. However, most may think that I need this EUR 33 right now. I'll buy food, pay for electricity, whatever. I am afraid that, for that reason, this solution would not serve its purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U125	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U126	Good waitress! With this draft, you want to introduce additional income tax-free income and introduce it from 1 January next year. In the explanatory memorandum, you say very nicely that this will result in revenue to the state budget amounting to 1.4 million social tax and income tax almost 0.9 million, a total of 2.3 million. Maybe it's a small number for you, but how do you cover it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U127	Thank you. Good questioner! First of all, this amount, which you have mentioned, in total, 2.3 million euros, means all of these amounts, for example, premiums, which are paid not only in the field of health, but also other expenses paid for people, which are subject to special preferential tax. This includes business lunches, representation costs, company parties, etc. It can be expected that businesses will not miss business lunches or company parties, that part will remain. How much of this 2.3 million really is part of the special health promotion tax, you can't say. But I myself have also paid sports costs as an entrepreneur, and I have talked to other entrepreneurs about this. It is estimated that, in any case, the share of sport costs is well below half, the majority being representation costs. As a result, we are still talking about income losses of less than EUR 1 million. I don't mean to upset you, but I am very tempted to say that less than a million euros we will still find, so much crying you will definitely have. I hear you're about to pay some unplanned revenue to the state budget, so we'll find less than a million euros for the gang.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U128	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U129	Dear waitress, Unfortunately, I have to start by saying that I think this is a bad bill that is not a good draft. It is not a good draft because, according to the proposed plan, the benefits in both health care and pension funds will decrease and consequently the corresponding opportunities. At the same time, the opportunities for wealthier people to withdraw tax-free money from their businesses would increase. The examples in your previous reply are actually all very good. After all, what makes up half today is going to be even greater. Not to mention that occupational health opportunities are already in place in a favourable way, without a special preferential tax. In my opinion, it would be socially very responsible for the employee to decide for himself what kind of health sport he is doing and whether he is doing anything at all. And if he decides to do sports, he'd do it for the money he gets paid. What's your problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U130	Good questioner! I don't think you were in the hall when I gave the speech. Then I will repeat my thoughts on this subject. You see, the point is that most people in Estonia have a relatively small income, most receive below the average wage in Estonia. Life has become more expensive. It is quite understandable that if a person has to decide whether, for example, EUR 33 is going to promote his or her health, or if he or she pays the cost of education for a child or buying food, then the decision tends to favour them and his or her health is left behind. The country is able to direct people to stand up for their health more, but there are not many of these opportunities. The fact that everyone can go to a sports club and swimming pool for free, just as it was in the Soviet era, doesn't have to dream. It's gonna cost a lot of money. It is through tax policy that the state can have a positive influence on people. Once again, this is an opportunity for businesses, certainly not an obligation. However, it is also clear that not all operators are going to go with it immediately, as this will create additional costs for them. But if one company goes along and talks to another, maybe next year another one will be added, which is the goal that as many as possible start paying more attention to the health of their workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U131	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U132	Dear Urve! I'm in the hall from the beginning, but I still didn't understand everything. Kalev Lillo asked his first question. He asked why you wanted to discriminate against a health sport with this bill. On the basis of this bill, you can rent buildings and other sports facilities, but the person who wants to run outside doesn't get any benefits, he's being told to go inside and chin him. You told Kalev that this person could go to the dentist. I don't know what the connection is. Why don't you develop that idea? Maybe you and Kalev have some sort of agreed riddle, but I certainly didn't understand. I'm asking for an explanation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U133	Good questioner, it seems to me that Kalev and I did understand each other. We will see each other more, we will be communicating in one committee every day. As for the connection that has been asked, you see, we are not talking about compensating for an unlimited amount of expenditure on health promotion. We don't talk like we talk about spending on machines and equipment. We are talking about EUR 400 per year, or EUR 33 per month. We're talking about people having a choice. First of all, it is possible for an undertaking to choose whether or not to go along with it. It's an extra cost. Let's say that an entrepreneur decides that this is a good opportunity to promote more workers' health I will do so, I will allocate EUR 400 per person per year. A person who is a very good indoor sportsman can use this money for his health. At the same time, the draft law gives many more opportunities. I gave an example of the possibility to afford dental care to the extent of this amount, which is paid by the employer. Or I'll have a tick shot, which is pretty expensive. If it's not done so far, the person thinks I'm gonna do it now. There are many ways to maintain your health. We will adopt a regulation by the Minister for Social Affairs, which states what health services there will certainly find things that would promote human health and suit him. Or if a person is in an accident and needs rehabilitation, which the state will pay for for a very short period of time. That's going down there, too. I would say that this bill does not discourage people's opportunities, but, on the contrary, creates quite a lot more of them, because the company's contribution makes it possible to invest more in its health.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U134	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U135	Honourable waitress! I do not agree with what the other side of the hall says that runners under the forest are discriminated against. On the contrary, no one's asking you for money for a run in the woods, but if you go to a gym or somewhere else in the halls, they usually ask you for money. Nor do I agree with Tõnis Kõiv, who asks how the bill promotes health, how it helps to save money. In fact, it helps save money from the Health Insurance Fund if we fix our teeth in time, etc. My question is: do you think it will benefit both businesses and employees in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U136	I'm sure of it! It is clear that when a person contributes to his or her health, whether by doing health sports, keeping his or her teeth in order, or having a medical massage, when prescribed by a doctor, it is very expensive for that person to be ill, but also for his or her loved ones and society as a whole. If I don't have a full-time employee, I'll bet less on society, I'll pay less on taxes. And little of that, the state will have to pay for some of my medical expenses. We have a system of solidarity: if I get sick, my treatment will be paid off. So all that a country can do to prevent is to make people healthier and have more years of healthy lives, and that must be done. We know that Estonia's big problem is, in fact, that our people have relatively few healthy life years compared to the European Union average. Our people are beginning to complain relatively early that they are ill - this figure is just over 50 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U137	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U138	I also have a question about discrimination. I read the bill, but I couldn't find it there. Perhaps you can help me: where does the bill say there is an increase in the cost of health runners? Is it hidden between the lines, or is it black in white? I didn't find it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U139	I think you're a pretty good reader, you even have glasses on, so maybe you can read better than I can. But I also remember from my head that there really is no such discriminatory point here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U140	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U141	Good colleague, let's continue the discussion! There's so much about sports out there that out there, equipment comes first and foremost. Equipment such as skating and cycling is not cheap at all, and I think that outdoor sports tends to be more expensive than buying a ticket to the hall. But that's it. We have both been entrepreneurs and we understand that the cost of doing something must be saved elsewhere. Do you think that it is reasonable for an employer to pay for health expenses at the expense of his salary? I'm already assuming you're saying there's no money to be found somewhere else. But where could an entrepreneur take it? What could he spend less on to pay off these charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U142	This problem can also be viewed differently. As an entrepreneur, I remember that we did indeed pay 300 kroons for the cost of promoting health per person over five years ago. I did it for a purpose. Of course, I did not just want to spend company money, but to save employees' expenses. Because when people do sports for health, they're supposed to be healthier. And that also means that I don't have to hire temporary workers when my person is ill. That is why, in due time, the whole flu vaccine was paid off, with a special tax on it, simply to avoid much higher costs later on. According to the current law, in the event of illness, the employer has to cover the costs of his health insurance, the blue page, for quite a long time. So in any case, the entrepreneur should have an interest in doing everything to prevent people from falling ill. You can say that, but then let him do it with this special discount. That's part of it. But I'm gonna get there again, so not everyone thinks like I think it's smart. The mindset of entrepreneurs must be guided. The state has few of these levers, and one of them is tax policy. If there is such a lever, the entrepreneurs are smart. They're starting to think, well, that's an extra cost for me at first, but at the same time, at least he's not double-taxed. Maybe we should try it. Let's do it. If they later see that it has a positive effect on the health of their subordinates, the question of whether to continue or not will no longer arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U143	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U144	Dear waitress, After the answer to the previous question, we can say that we almost agree on something: that the wages paid in Estonia are small and should be increased. But this is how I understand that the current principle of the special preferential tax is based on the fact that an entrepreneur would have an interest in offering employees a raise instead of a salary, that you might want a tick or flu vaccine or some kind of escape. It is the same for the employer on a tax basis. If we take it away now, it is actually a favour not to raise wages, in which the employee can decide for himself what he is doing with this money, but instead to simulate wage increases through some kind of services. I think it's basically the wrong direction. Workers need to raise their wages, not offer replacements. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U145	I understand that behind this question is the suspicion that employers will not raise their wages by EUR 33 even though the corresponding wages in the sector would demand it, but that we will now give you a tick shot for this money. I understand that this question also had to be asked by some entrepreneurs. But when you think about it calmly, it is clear that the employee has a very important salary number and compares it with the wages of other workers in the sector. Other benefits offered by the company are not taken into account, but wages are still wages. Therefore, it is unlikely that the employee will accept tick injections instead of wage increases. Nothing can be ruled out in life, but it's very unlikely. Another thing is that the company still pays wages according to the situation of the sector and the entire labour market. He will also pay more if other companies pay more, otherwise his employees will go away. There's no other way he can make it up to you. This compensation mechanism, that the employer pays part of the cost of sports, is quite the other half. But it is also true that if one place is paid and friends talk about it in the sauna, an employee who is not paid can tell his employer during a negotiation or development interview that you see that in a neighbouring company, in addition to salary, some of the sports costs you think about are paid. But it's positive, there's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U146	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U147	What would be the problem with entrepreneurship in Estonia if the Estonian labour market were such that raising people's wages could be replaced by tick injection. But here was the question of where the company's money for health costs would be taken from the expense of labour costs or from somewhere else, and how would it eventually be expressed as taxes at the Treasury. You gave a good example of how you can save other costs by investing in people. How do you feel, if this investment improves people's health, can the company benefit from it and raise wages? Can this result in an increase in turnover and, ultimately, in the income on which taxes are paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U148	The answer to your question was inside. Of course, when people are healthy, they are productive. We know how hard it is to work when you feel sick. You go to work, you're half sick, and maybe you're infecting others, you're not productive. I'm feeling a little bad right now with my runny nose. However, from an employer's point of view, it is also bad if a person does not come to work at all and there is no one to replace. Of course, healthy people are more productive and, ultimately, they produce greater added value for society as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U149	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U150	Speaking of the big picture, Estonia's great concern is the average life expectancy of an Estonian man, which is ten years shorter than that of our women. My question is: is there any reason to hope that this bill will help to prolong the lives of our men? We know that Estonian men in general do not dare or simply do not want to go to a doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U151	Thank you for a very good question. Yeah, that's a very important observation. If the employer decides that every two years all workers will be referred to health surveillance, such as Medicover, then all employees will go there. I know from my own private sector times that we did this at a couple of years apart, and unfortunately, there were not rare cases where some colleagues were found to have a disease. But it was thanks to the health check that they were able to get sick and start treatment on time. Would these people have taken a health check without positive pressure from the company? It's hard to say, but a lot of people don't. This measure has a huge impact. As far as men are concerned, men work statistically more than women. Male employment is higher, women are many at home with children. If men are directed to exercise at work, it will in any case have a positive effect on their health and life expectancy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U152	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Erki Arrow, member of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U153	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable few sports enthusiasts who have stayed in the hall! The Committee on Finance discussed a draft of 242 at its meeting on 16 October. The draft was presented by Urve Palo, the initiator of it, at the meeting of the Commission. The discussion was moody and also emotional, discussed a wide range of topics. One of the most discussed questions was what impact this law would have on budget, tax receipts and the tax behaviour of individuals would either be paid higher wages or otherwise compensate for these expenses. There was, of course, a debate about equal opportunities for workers, which was also asked here: why are there discriminations like those sports enthusiasts who like to go running in the woods or riding a bicycle? I promise myself a humorous mid-term comment about yesterday's news that the city of Tallinn will raise fees for sports bases. Maybe they'll set up cashiers for the health sports trails. You can take a public car free of charge and pay a fee at the beginning of the forest trail. This inequality would have been eliminated. But, of course, the aim of the draft, as the previous speaker said, is to encourage employers to contribute to maintaining workers' health. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Lemmi Oro, also pointed out some shortcomings in the draft, for example, that the administration of this tax would be very difficult. The tax authorities also see that the concept of health sports is unfettered, for example, the tax officer should start to decide what is a health sport and what is not. We discussed this issue both a little more emotionally and less emotionally, for example, whether or not some of the special types of yoga could fit into the concept of health sports. It was also a question of defining health care services. Based on the definition defined in the Health Services Organisation Act. The representative of the Ministry of Finance also passed on the decision of the Government of the Republic on 28 June that the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. I would add so much that there was also a debate that we should take this matter very seriously. Our sports and exercise support group in the Riigikogu has 32 members, five or six of them active. I hope that these 32 people will show more interest than we will discuss this draft on future occasions. Finally, I will announce the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Voting result: 6 in favour, 0 against and 2 abstentions. It was decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 20 November 2012. The decision was consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U154	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U155	The rapporteur from the Commission. An analogous draft, initiated by the Centre Party Group, passed its first reading in May six months ago. Can you tell me when this last bill that's been settling somewhere for six months will be discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U156	We did not discuss this issue this time. The previous speaker, Urve Palo, mentioned here the very deep drawers on the table of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I hope they're not very deep. Unfortunately, I can't tell you how deep they are right now. But it is my sincere wish that we move forward with this draft and, in parallel, that the Centre Party draft be discussed and improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U157	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U158	Honourable waitress! I think you have had enough time to bring this matter up in the parliamentary group in support of mobility. Why haven't you done that? The five of you who go there together? What are these subjects that you are discussing? Nothing has reached this large Riigikogu hall so far. What is the reason that you have not discussed this issue there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U159	The last time we discussed the introduction of a system of coach remuneration. And we've talked about an analogous subject at least three times. As you have understood from the questions that have been heard in the Chamber today, there are pros and cons. Personally, I think that this issue should go further, it is a necessary bill for society. But I guess we like to solve certain problems in society rather than in society as a whole. For example, children's dental care is fully compensated, even when it comes to private dentists, but in certain areas we do not want to approach problems in depth. I have studied taxation systems in different countries from the point of view of sport. In my opinion, it is worth considering the implementation of a very good Swedish experience. In Sweden, every resident can deduct SEK 1500 of sports-related expenditure from income when declaring his or her income annually. In the case of the draft, it has been pointed out that the Tax and Customs Board sees a major problem in the complexity of the administration concerned, which would make it very easy for the Tax and Customs Board to implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U160	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Jüri Jaansoni, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U161	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to draw your attention to the fact that sport is actually a human choice. You can do sports, but you don't have to do sports. Sport is still based on the will of infinite self-realization and the value of a healthy lifestyle, the desire to do something to improve your physical condition. This can be done in many ways and regardless of the weather and much more. I have a Saturday Pärnu Postimees with me, where Pärnu aerobics trainer Jaana Junson explains how sports can also be done at home. In the pictures, we can see that he has water bottles and a broomstick in his hand. Practices are a great way to get yourself in shape, not to mention walking the streets and running under the woods. It is not a problem in itself. But that wasn't the main thing I wanted to talk about. I actually want to talk about how we use this exemption instrument and whether it is always right to use it. This is the point of discussion. Is it always right to use it when we have many options? I draw attention to Paragraph 13 (3) (8) of the Income Tax Act, which refers to the exemption from income tax on aid granted to persons with disabilities. Now the topic is more that these tools are the employer's, the employer buys them, but the tools themselves are the same personal things as underwear. This tool belongs to the employer and if the employer says that it needs to be put on the table after the end of the working day, there is nothing to do. At the same time, the employer's position is understandable because, for example, if you go out after work with a hearing aid and forget that you have it, you can go swimming with it or take a shower out of ignorance. Next day, the employer discovers he's suffered damage. So, in principle, I call for the exemption from the special preferential tax to be used in a situation where there are no other options. I think you could think about that more deeply. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U162	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I came here to make sure that the bill was probably misunderstood, and also in the interests of historical truth. If anyone has a desire to supplement the draft with provisions on this sport, which is carried out under the forest for their own health, the authors of the draft do not object in any way. The first reading of the draft will be closed, your proposals will be made, we will discuss them, and if we hope that these things will also be coordinated with the Ministry of Finance, we think that everything is excellent. Rather, such provisions have been left out because there has been a strong confrontation with it in the past. Secondly, I assure the previous speaker that the medical aids defined by the regulation of the Minister for Social Affairs are certainly not the employer's, but paid off by the employer, according to the draft. But in the interests of historical truth, I must say that it is natural that such a question arose here. Perhaps in an earlier life, a person was a very good accountant, but as a politician, his knowledge is very weak or nonexistent. That is why such questions arise. Ivari Padar wrote an assessment of this draft in his day as Minister of the Coalition Government. There were three parties in this government: the Social Democrats, the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance and the Reform Party. When negotiations were held, the Social Democrats proposed to amend the Income Tax Act in this way. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association supported it, but the Reform Party opposed it, which stated that they would not accept such a provision. The main argument of their opposition has always been one: the notion that wages would be paid in this way. I don't share that idea. Look, when parents feed the baby at home and cook macaroni, they put meatballs or wieners next to them. You can't put chains aside there because kids just don't eat them. The question that has arisen here today, too, of whether a weekly increase in wages could be replaced by a tick injection, is just as ridiculous. The Reform Party has always opposed this. Ivar Padar is a man who abides by agreements. Later, the coalition had such a tragedy that there was a sad moment in which public spending had to be saved. There was concern as to how our hospitals can work, whether doctors and nurses can work there, whether the waiting lists are not too long. Then a minister of this government, including the Reform Party, and a Social Democrat member of the Riigikogu sat down with Estonian employers' and employees' associations. It was found that one solution would be to cover sick days by continuing to pay wages. This clear commitment also meant that the employer had a clear interest in making people healthier. In return, they were also promised that the employer's expenditure on workers' health would not be subject to a special preferential tax. This agreement has not been honoured. Ivari Padar is a gentleman, he fulfilled the agreements that were made on paper, as well as the agreements that had been made verbally. For all the finance ministers I have so far, I cannot say that. Some have behaved and still act like a total peasant.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U164	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 242 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 20 November. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U165	We are going to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a representative of the Socialists, I am before you for the second time to present our programme position: child support must be tripled. The Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed to the Riigikogu proceedings a triple of universal child benefits to 57.54 euros per month. Until then, however, we have spoken to deaf ears. For children, the state has no money. But for whom or for what is the country at all if not for people? The first draft by the Socialists on this subject has been caught up for longer than a year, although members of our political group have requested at least six times in the Committee on Social Affairs to put it on the agenda. The initiators of the draft act believe that at a time when the Republic of Estonia is prepared to contribute 150 million euros in the interests of the stability of European finances, the Riigikogu is obliged to find an opportunity to contribute to the development of the population by means of a more effective family policy. Better coping of Estonian families is more important in the interests of development than any fiscal policy decision. Honourable fellows! The system of family benefits in Estonia, once established under the leadership of social democrats, is universal. This is based on the understanding that each child is valuable and that the cost of raising and training each child is involved. This system reduces inequalities and prevents children from being labelled. After all, the purpose of family benefits is to ensure that all families with children receive part of the cost of caring for, raising and studying their children. All children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. By its very nature, the universal family benefit system is the preventative and most effective way of reducing poverty, contributing to increasing the confidence of families with children. Studies in Europe, as well as in the Nordic countries, show that more children are born and that there is less child poverty in countries with universal family benefits, as well as services that support parents' participation in the labour market. In the Nordic countries, every effort is made to prevent families with children from falling into poverty and from going begging for help from the state. Where the basic principle of need-based child benefit can be brought out, the experience of Greece and other southern European countries is illustrated. By now, the birth rate has been drastically reduced, reaching just over one child in a woman of childbearing age. However, it is orthodox and Catholic culture, where the birth of a child is not funny and where the homes of a few generations ago were filled with children. If the family has to rely on the state for help only when poverty is already in the house, children will rather not be given birth. We have the same trend. Young people are increasingly aware that children increase the risk of poverty, while lifeless things speak of prosperity. It is well known to potential parents that in absolute poverty or at risk of poverty, we have over 63000 children, or 18% of all children and young people under 18 years of age. The coefficient of birth was 1.52 in Estonia last year. However, in order to maintain a recovery level, it should be at least 2.1. Iive continues to decline, despite the fact that we have about 200,000 women in the best birth age. This figure is now at the top. In a few years, however, this figure will undoubtedly begin to decline, decreasing by 70,000 women in just a few decades. Although parents would like two or three children, an average of 1.52 children are born into the family. The survey "The factors influencing birth in Estonia 2008" shows that people's real behaviour can be helped primarily by the tangible support felt by the state, the availability of childcare and the knowledge that children who have lost their jobs or a single parent can raise and provide them with a full childhood and good education. Therefore, if we continue to wave empty slogans and do nothing about family policy without delay, we can begin to ring the bell at once on our people. Dear members of the Riigikogu, let's be honest! Today, Estonia's most burning concern is that even the first children will not be born into the family. If you look at the graphs made by population scientists, the birth rate of the first-borns has been in freefall over the last three years. This also speaks of the screaming need to raise universal child support immediately and properly. If the first child is not born into the family, the second child will not be born with the first child, and the third child will not be born with the first filth (there is one exception: if the first children happen to be triplets). Estonian family policy has been described internationally as a family policy aimed at birth. This means that family policy measures are mostly oriented towards the birth of a child and the birth of a child. However, since family life does not begin or end with the birth of a child but lasts for the entire life of a person, it is necessary to pay more attention to later years of growth. The birth of a child and the first months or years of life may be insured, but if, as a child grows up and grows up, he or she does not have the opportunity to receive education, to participate in an education and to use health care services, but parents cannot participate in the labour market or ensure the economic livelihood of the family, then there is no state policy that should support the quality of life of families and the sustainability of the population, a long-term perspective and a positive impact. As I have already said, Estonia's family policy has so far focused on supporting births and raising children of adult age has been neglected as necessary. Parental benefit costs more money than other family benefits combined. The amount of child benefit paid until the child reaches the age of age is EUR 98 million per year, while the amount of parental benefit paid for only a year and a half is more than EUR 174 million. Faith, as if it were enough to support families with one and a half years of state support, is naive. The Prime Minister has compared universal child support to seeding money from a plane. No wonder that EUR 19 per child per month has been frozen since 2004, although since then it has also lost half of its purchasing power. If we look back in time, what could we buy for $300 at the time? That was a lot. If we ask ourselves what can now be bought for a child with EUR 19, I think you all agree that this is very little. Not surprisingly, then, the government has targeted so-called needs-based child support. The poem scheme for reforming child benefits can broadly be summarised as follows: First, we let a family with children fall into poverty, so that they can then walk in the hands of a hat, in the hands of a local government, in order to prove the misery of their family again and again. Then, from the coming summer, there is the hope that the first and second children will receive ten euros of extra money per month from the country's purse. Apart from the need-based, bottom-burned family policy in southern Europe, which seems to our leading politicians to be ever closer to our heart, we also have a second path to choose from the Nordic way. Studies carried out in Europe and experience in the Nordic countries show that the birth rate is relatively high and that child poverty is low in those countries where everyone is equally paid significant family benefits and the state is doing its part to provide the necessary services for children: kindergarten, free education and education, school transport, etc. All of this helps to reconcile parents' work and family life. Looking at the percentage of GDP spent on children in one country or another, we have approximately 0.7% of GDP for children and families, with inefficient parental benefits higher than 1.7%. The services needed for children are scarce in Estonia, both in the city and in the country. In Finland and Sweden, on the other hand, the money allocated to family benefits is much higher, with Denmark accounting for as much as 3.8% of the country's GDP. Finally, with the draft, the Social Democrats wish to amend § 5 (3) of the State Family Benefits Act. According to the current law, child benefit for the first and second child of the family is currently paid at double the rate of child benefit for the third and each subsequent child at six times the rate of child benefit. The draft harmonises the rates of child benefit and sets the amount of child benefit for all children at six times the rate of child benefit. When the bill is adopted as a law, the economic livelihood of 166000 families will be improved. When the Social Democrat Bill becomes a law, a two-child family wins more than 900 euros a year. The Social Democrats believe that this is absolutely feasible for our country. When the Riigikogu comes to an agreement on this, when we finally realise that the future of the people and the state depends on the future generation, I think that all members of the Riigikogu will also support the draft Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U167	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U168	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Does the Social Affairs Committee have such a study of how many parents leave Estonia after they have received parental pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U169	Thank you. Unfortunately, this study has not been carried out, but very many parents leave Estonia when parental pay or one or the other benefit is received. They will, and they will, because raising a child in neighbouring countries is a completely different blade. They feel very clear that all children are welcome there, and Estonian children are also welcome in Finland and Sweden. Parents have confidence that they can give children proper education and raise children in a decent way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U170	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I recently experienced a slight shock when I discovered that Eurostat predicted that the number of people aged 15 to 34 would fall by 106000 between 2010 and 2030. It's a disaster, of course. The same happens in other age groups. Do you think that without the exit from the depressive mood in which we are now in and in which we have the whole of Estonia, and only with subsidies, only with money can we improve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U172	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U173	Thank you. We certainly cannot improve it with money alone, but no matter what measure to improve the situation of families with children is a clear signal that children are welcome in this country. When I was talking about universal child support, it also means that all children are equal and there is no child labelling. But, of course, there are measures to keep people in Estonia, many and many. Above all, it is still a decent living environment and the knowledge that the state cares about its people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good founder's representative! This is the second draft on this subject that you have put in place. The first one has been in the open for almost a year and has passed the first reading. Looks like this bill goes through first reading, too. But how optimistic are you about this future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U175	Social Democrats never give up hope. Well, we're gonna file this bill until it's legal. If that doesn't happen before, it's definitely gonna be when we get to the government. It's not like we're gonna miss this ploy. In fact, the draft Social Democrats envisages an improvement in the situation of more than 160,000 families; I am thinking precisely of improving the situation of children in these families. We do not call it reform. But the Reform Party and the IRL draft, which brings social benefits into the State Family Benefits Act, are called reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U176	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U177	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have heard this rhetoric from several colleagues in the Riigikogu and, specifically, the Minister of Finance, so that it would be as insulting if a person earns as much as a minister and suddenly has child support (assuming he has children). In order to eliminate this argument, could we not impose a restriction in the draft that this law does not apply to members of the Riigikogu and members of the government? Then there would be one less insult and one less argument against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U178	Thank you. That's a very good question. No one's actually offering that money to anyone. The same minister or member of the Riigikogu has written a statement to receive child benefit, parental benefit and other family allowances. Those members of the government who talk like that lie. They can give up this support at any time. But it's not embarrassing for them to accept that money. That's not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U179	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U180	Thank you. Good waitress! The government's view is that grants should be needs-based. Has there been a debate in the Commission about the need-based nature of parental pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U181	That's a good question. We haven't discussed it. But if you've been paid properly before your children are born, you'll have much less money to raise your children than those who may not have had any income before, who have come straight from school, have to start their lives and so on. Unfortunately, it has not been discussed. Of course, the Social Democrats have proposed bringing the parental benefit ceiling down. But money should still be left to families with children, even one could increase the support of a single parent child.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U182	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U183	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I fully agree with you that the child benefit, which is EUR 19 and which is already EUR 2004, will certainly not cover the needs that arise when a child is raised. But in the last half of the year, we have heard both the Prime Minister and other high reform parties talk about reform of the Reform Party or about a plan that provides for child support to be multiplied. It's like trying to calm families down. Perhaps you will also assess this reform or plan whether it will solve the problem or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U184	First of all, every cent that is given to families with children is grateful, but this plan does not solve the problems. Let me give you an example. After all, the Reform Party and the IRL have stated that if the income of a family with two children is less than EUR 588, it is entitled to need-based child support. But if there's a grandmother or a mother-in-law living in that house, no matter what we call her, Grandma's pension counts. If Grandma's pension is added to it, the children of this family will not receive needs-based child benefit. My question is, does a mother-in-law have to pay that ten euros out of his pension? Actually, it's weird. We have discussed this in the Commission and there have been other strange things that have come up. For example, if a husband and wife live together, both have two children from their previous life together and there are now four children in the family, only two children in this family will receive needs-based child support and the other two children will not receive child support. There are a lot of holes in this bill. I very much hope that these holes will be corrected and that the concept of "need-based child support" will be removed from the National Family Benefits Act, because this is actually the subject of the Social Welfare Act. This one sentence of the State Family Benefits Act should be introduced into the Social Welfare Act, as the Social Welfare Act regulates the need-based child benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U185	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U186	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft. I will brief you on the content of this debate. The Socialist proposal is to increase child support for all children, not in the same way as the need-based draft of child support, on which the rapporteur has also answered the questions. According to the originator, according to research, families have a desire to have two or three children, but life shows that there are factors that interfere with this dream. Although the Social Democrats, as the initiator of the draft, do not think that a six-fold increase in child support will solve all the problems because additional measures are also needed, the initiators consider this to be a very effective measure. Nor did anyone in the Commission dispute this directly. We discussed that we had a similar draft already a year ago, but now this draft is under discussion. We discussed whether it would be possible to merge these two drafts during the procedure. The originator thought that this was possible, although the explanatory memorandum to the second draft has been slightly improved, but if the debate goes on, it will be possible to merge these drafts. We were discussing procedural matters for a long time, how it is possible that one bill would be submitted twice. Turns out it's not forbidden at all. We also discussed the possibility that, in the event of a coincidence of "bad" phenomena, one bill would remain to be discussed in the next Riigikogu. We were hoping it wouldn't happen now. As there was also need-based child support, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was asked whether an analysis of how this allowed needs-based support, which is EUR 9 59 cents per first child, could help a poor family. The answer was that it had not been analysed. Moreover, a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs stated that families that are hard to cope have been studied in Haapsalu, and this study has shown that these children actually need new services rather than money. Although, yes, we thought that every penny would benefit the children. The bill was meaningful, no one argued against it. With consensus, we decided that this bill must come to this Chamber for discussion on 6 November. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading (this decision was also consensual). I was appointed as rapporteur for the Commission, i.e. Yana Toomi, and the deadline for tabling amendments is ten days, as normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U187	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U188	Thank you. It is often the case that the government does not support the draft initiated by the opposition because something similar is done itself. We know that the government has announced the reform of child benefits as a slogan. Can you compare today's draft with what the government promises to do about child benefits? For example, we take one ordinary Estonian family with two children. What would await this family if the draft Social Democrats were to be adopted as a law and what awaits it in the reform foreseen by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U189	Thank you! I'm trying to be as precise as possible with the numbers. I don't think I'm wrong much. The draft proposed by the government foresees that families living in relative poverty will receive needs-based child support. The limit of relative poverty in Estonia is 280 euros per first family member, half of which is 140 euros per next family member who is older than 14 years, and a third of that sum is 84 euros for each family member who is younger than 14 years. This means, as Heljo Pikhof also said, that in a family with two adults and two children, the income must be less than EUR 588 so that they can be regarded as living in relative poverty. This family is expected to receive an additional €9 59 cents for the first child and €19 18 cents for the second child, i.e. just under €30 in total, according to the government bill of 1 July 2013. Let's take the bill we're talking about right now and do the calculations. At present, each child receives EUR 19, with a draft of EUR 57. This means that the monetary victory is significant and far greater than the government's draft. That's the first thing, the so-called financial side. The other side is that the need-based child allowance (with this support, I think, is the wrong name, and not just in my opinion, for the simple reason that when we talk about a household living in relative poverty, we should also talk about the need-based support for families with children, not for children) there is a clear labelling of children, with parents having to go to the Social Insurance Board once a quarter and prove that their income is so low. Moreover, if, for example, the parents are divorced and the mother does not claim a child's father's livelihood through court, she cannot apply for needs-based support. This essentially means that if a father has nothing to take from him, for example, he is unemployed, then a mother has to go with her children's father in the courtroom to get EUR 9 59 cents.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U190	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. If I understand correctly, the government will not oppose this draft and if we finish reading it today, it will go to second reading, with ten days to table amendments. How do you think this bill will develop with our bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U192	I must repeat what the previous waitress said and say that the Centre Party will never give up hope that things will continue to evolve in the right direction. The demographic situation in Estonia is not very rosy and it is clear to everyone that our children and families with children deserve a decent income. The only thing that bothers me a little about this bill is that it is not in here that more support should not be considered income when determining income support. But that's the next step.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U193	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Please speak to the representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal 261 and the amendment contained in it are undoubtedly sympathetic in their content. But I have the impression that the Social Democratic Party has been working so hard lately and has so many major initiatives that it has overlooked the fact that they have already handed over exactly the same draft and the same amendment, and this is now in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. In the Chamber today, I heard that they themselves probably noticed that this bill was already in the process and that they were talking about this bill 11 here. The faction of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union is of the opinion that two identical drafts issued and processed by the same initiator in the Chamber of the Riigikogu are not appropriate to be dealt with in parallel. I have a proposal for the Board of the Riigikogu to look at the Rules of Procedure, together with the heads of committees, about the initiation and processing of drafts. It is only for this reason that the exact same draft is already in the process, and because we should not be dealing with such strange activities in this Chamber, that the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union is calling for the rejection at first reading of bill 261, because identical draft 11 is already in the process of being presented by the same initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U195	I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Heljo Pikhofi for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U196	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have an objection to Kaia Iva. We have the Board of the Riigikogu, which is based on our Rules of Procedure. The rules of procedure shall provide that drafts may be submitted in this way. The Social Democrats have spoken to deaf ears in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. Let me remind you that your party member is the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. We've tried six times to put the draft 11 on the agenda, but no one's ever paid attention to it. However, it is extremely important that this bill enters into force as a law right now, because, as I said earlier, the first and second children's benefits have been frozen since 2004 is completely unacceptable. EUR 19 per child does not fulfil the objective laid down in the National Family Benefits Act. In fact, the law clearly states that families with children are partially compensated for the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. But 19 euros is really good-well-small money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U197	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. At the same time, the President of the Riigikogu sitting on the table is a letter from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union asking for the draft law 261 to be rejected. The reason given is that identical draft law 11 is already in the process as proposed by the same initiators. Signed by the Chairman of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Does your proposal concern the first reading? It doesn't say that here. Got it. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica to reject the proposal at first reading 261. Please take a stand and vote. For 45 and against 31 members of the Riigikogu. Draft Act 261 amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U198	We will move to the eighth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Parental Benefits Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu as a member of the Riigikogu Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U199	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to a draft that wishes to amend the State Family Benefits Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Parental Benefits Act. The purpose of the draft is to improve the situation of families raising triplets by providing parental benefit, parental leave and parental care allowance for both parents on triplets and a higher number of multiple births, and by increasing the one-off birth allowance for triplets and a higher number of multiple births to EUR 10000. The birth of triplets is an extraordinary event in Estonia that occurs only a few times a year, not even every year. In addition to the threefold joy, the birth of triplets brings huge economic expenses to the family. The training of triples involves three times the cost of food, clothing and children's recreational and sporting activities, all at the same time. Unlike other European countries, Estonia lacks any state support for triplets. In the case of multiple births, not special measures have been put in place, but all families with large numbers of children are being tried to publicly support families with more than one child. This has led to a situation where support for the families of triplets is left to the municipalities, whose capacities and financial resources are very different. The fact that local authorities have consistently supported families with triplets in accordance with their possibilities so far speaks of the need for greater state support for families raising triplets. This has been done in recent years by Narva, Rõngu Parish in Tartu County and also by the capital city of Tallinn. Triple-growing families have presented their proposals to the Riigikogu to improve the situation of their families and thereby support the full development of children until they reach their adulthood. Against this background, the Centre Party Group proposes that the National Family Allowance Act be supplemented by a new paragraph, which would allow the payment of child care allowances in addition to both triple parents and more multiple parents until the children become three years old. We also want to increase the birth grant to EUR 10000 for triplets and more multiple births. Under the current law, multiple parents receive a birth grant of EUR 320 per child born. However, this support is out of date. Also, the EUR 960 birth grant does not cover triple costs associated with the birth of triplets. Unlike Estonia, where support for the families of triplets depends on people's responsiveness, for example, in Latvia for ten years, support has been paid to the families of triplets from the government reserve fund. In 2008, the aid amount was LVL 6000 or slightly more than EUR 8500. In Estonia, in addition to the grants paid by local governments, several companies have provided benefits to triplets to enable children of large families to experience exciting experiences. But it's not all regulated by law. The second amendment we came to this hall concerns the Employment Contracts Act. The amendment requires both parents to be entitled to parental leave until they reach the age of three. Under the current legislation, in the case of multiple births, only one parent has the option of taking parental leave and receiving parental benefit. However, caring for three infants at once is very intense and requires considerable time resources. Sometimes it's too much for one person. The parents of threes find that the current parental benefit system saves on the most needy, since only one parent is allowed to receive parental benefit in families where three children are to be raised at a time, but the parent who raises three children in succession has the opportunity to take parental leave on three occasions. The draft has been criticised for the fact that the long-term absence of two parents from the labour market has negative consequences for the family, as the competitiveness and position of both parents in the labour market may deteriorate. However, it should be stressed that parental leave can already be used either simultaneously or in instalments. Therefore, when the draft comes into force, it is not clear that both parents will be absent from the labour market for three years. The bill allows parents to take parental leave at the same time, helping a family to support one another during a stressful period. It has also been pointed out negative that the granting of an advantage to the parents of triplets would create an unequal situation compared to those of parents with children under three years of age who are not multiples. However, parents who do not have multiple children are now in a privileged position because they have a longer period of parental benefit. It's been their choice, too. However, the birth of the triplets cannot be planned. In the last twenty years, an average of three were born in Estonia, and in the last ten years, four sets were born, and I apologize for the expression, I just don't know how to call them triplets a year. While 2007 and 2008 were the most triplet in Estonia in the last 60 years, five triplets were born in 2011. These figures are here to make it clear that the financial cost of the amendment is not very high. According to our work, if we assume that four triplets are born per year, the maximum cost of the state budget will be EUR 212607, if the law enters into force. Trends are based on the maximum amount of parental benefit, in fact it may happen that this cost is much lower than planned. The date of entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 1 January 2013. To sum up, the draft makes it possible to improve the economic situation of families raising triplets, thereby supporting the full development of children and increasing family confidence. I am asking for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U200	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Parental Benefits Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, at its meeting on 23 October. Seili Suder, Head of Labour Relations Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Anni Tooma, Minister of Labour, took part in the meeting of the Commission in addition to the members and officials of the Commission. On behalf of the initiators, Yana Toom introduced the draft. Allow me to present the debate in the Commission. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Seili Suder. The Government of the Republic does not support the proposed draft for the following reasons. The granting of parental leave is governed by Council Directive 96/34/EC, which has been transposed into Estonian law by the Employment Contracts Act. Under Clause 2.1 of the Directive, a Member State must be allowed to take parental leave for at least three months. The Directive does not provide for parental leave based on the number of children. During parental leave, multiples are taken care of at the same time, not at different times. Estonian law takes into account that the parent is raising children born at the same time. There is no need to establish the right to several parental leave based on the number of children born at the same time. The above position is also supported by the Court's judgment in Case C-149/10, where the Court held that the directive cannot be interpreted as meaning that the birth of twins gives rise to the right to parental leave corresponding to the number of children born. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs stressed that the payment of parental benefit is not linked to the number of children. Parental benefit is also paid on a one-off basis if the parent is also entitled to parental benefit for several children born consecutively. Given that in one family parental leave can be taken at the same time as one parent for several children born consecutively, it is not possible that the parental benefit is granted at the same time for the different children of the mother and father. Therefore, the Government of the Republic does not support the payment of parental benefit to both parents at the same time, even in the case of triplets or more multiple births. The initiator of the draft act pointed out that the proposed changes would improve the position of parents in the labour market. The representative of the Government of the Republic disagreed with this and rather sees that the competitiveness of parents may deteriorate. At present, parents are able to change their time on holiday and have flexibility. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs reminded the members of the Commission that the new year would restore paid paternity leave, which would take 10 working days. The initiators were asked why the amount of birth grant for the birth of triplets was EUR 10000. For example, compared to the grant for the birth of twins, which is EUR 640 per child, the grant of EUR 10000 is disproportionate. The originators' representative reasoned that this was the sum that the parents of the three - year - olds asked for in their letter. The Commission also pointed out that a draft is currently underway, which raises the grant to EUR 3000 for the birth of triplets. The Commission raised the question of how to deal with three children. The representatives of the Ministry agreed that multiple families may need more support in order to reduce the care burden on parents and improve the livelihood of the family, which is why family support measures play an important role. It is important to look at family benefits and services in a comprehensive way, which is why the Ministry of Social Affairs is drawing up a concept of family benefits and services that analyses the care burden of multiple families and offers possible supportive measures. According to a representative of the Ministry, representatives of the three parents are also involved in the work. The Commission was interested in how these holidays are regulated in other EU Member States. The representative of the Ministry replied that the parent can now stay at home in Estonia until the child is three years old. This is no longer the time in any other European country, in most countries this time is shorter. In the United Kingdom and France, this time is in months. Three years can be spent at home in Finland and Poland, with three years divided into longer periods in Finland, but it can still be used by one parent at a time. At the same time, representatives of the Ministry stressed that in the case of multiple births, families are usually offered various services. In conclusion, the Commission considered the matter to be important, needs to be further addressed and better solutions sought. On the proposed draft, the Commission took the following decisions: to send the draft to first reading and to propose that the draft be rejected by the Assembly at first reading. It was supported by 5 and against 3 members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U202	Thank you. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have now presented the position of the Government of the Republic and there is a reference to the Euro Directive. On the basis of this, it became clear that the government does not support this draft. Is this directive imperative, is it, in principle, forbiding the countries of the European Union from supporting, in any way, the cultivation of triplets, or does it still leave decision-making in the hands of each country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U204	Thank you. Positive discrimination is allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U205	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a two-way question. You said the government was working on a plan in this direction. I would like to clarify what deadline he took to develop this plan. Secondly, you said there were better solutions. Can you say in a few words what these better solutions are?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U207	Thank you. I believe that there are alternatives to these better solutions to the services analysis being prepared by the Ministry. In particular, experts have recommended the provision of services in such cases and not financial support directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U208	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U209	Thank you. Word compounds such as "hot snow" or "positive discrimination" may be called oxymorons, exclusive words, and this expression does not say anything. I have asked you a very specific question: does this directive prevent us from doing anything for triplets and their parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U210	Thank you. This directive does not say anything directly about the parents of triplets. The Directive is interpreted as meaning that the birth of twins does not give rise to the right to parental leave corresponding to the number of children born. Childcare leave is not granted according to the number of children, but it is established. If it has been decided that the period of leave shall be three, four or five months, then the mother or father shall have obtained such leave. It doesn't depend on the number of children. Estonia has been very kind in granting the holiday. My child and I can stay at home until the child is three years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U211	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the Steering Committee is that draft 270 should be rejected at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission of directors to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 44 votes for and 25 against, no abstentions. Draft 270 Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, Employment Contracts Act and Parental Benefits Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U212	We will move to the ninth item on the agenda, which is an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2011 and the accuracy of the country's 2011 financial statements and the legality of the transactions. Dear colleagues, before we go to the processing of this item, allow me to brief you on the procedure resulting from § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. First of all, the Auditor General is Mihkel Oviir's report, which lasts up to 30 minutes. After that, there are questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there are negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Auditor General Mihkel Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to be before you for the last or tenth time with the annual report of the National Audit Office and to say a few words to it to guide you not to look into the past, but to the future. Next year you will already have a new Auditor General, who will soon be nominated by the President of the Republic and to whom I will ask Parliament for the kind and broad support. Over this decade, our country has had better and worse times. The crisis hurt us. However, if we take 2011 as an example, Estonia did much better than the government had hoped. Our economies grew most rapidly from the countries of the European Union, with a total of 8.3%. Export growth exceeded government projections three times and unemployment fell faster than expected. It's a great success. But alongside many beautiful figures and achievements, we should ask whether our society is more coherent and sympathetic, whether the people of Estonia are happier than they were ten years ago. I have no doubt that we will certainly have research and statistics in store that will not leave the answer open. Yeah, well, there's really nothing wrong with our life now. A large part of the world lives much worse, including many European countries. At the same time, we have no reason to loosen ourselves, especially when we look at the problems that the Estonian state is facing in the next decade. The Ministry of Finance believes that, at least for the next four years, our economy will grow by around 3.5% a year. The competitiveness plan for Estonia 2020 has suggested that we should not expect more until the next decade, if any. This is not a small increase. Many countries would be happy for such growth. If our economy grows in this way, the total cost of the State Treasury will still exceed by around EUR 1 billion between 2012 and 2015. This money must be found in reserves or owed. Why? Have we lightly raised the salaries of public employees? No. Have we been lurking? Nothing like that. If so, perhaps money from other taxpayers in the European Union. Then what is it? The story is that so-called fixed costs, mainly social and health costs, whose growth is set by law, eat up most of the country's income growth. While government revenue increased by 29% between 2006 and 2010, fixed expenditure increased by as much as 62% over the same period. In five years' time, half of the state budget will be spent on social expenditure. Figuratively speaking, the state of Estonia is shaky about fulfilling its obligations under the law and there is little money to support the development of the state. This is also one of the reasons why the Minister of Finance has been forced to say for years that for new activities, money must be found within the amount that each ministry has been given in recent years. If the state's revenues continue to grow a few per cent a year in the near future, the current plans will provide additional funding for this growth in the social and health care sectors and national defence. The remaining areas must rely on EU funds. How much money will be in these funds under the economic crisis in Europe, there are estimates of this, but it is not known what the real situation will be. Yesterday, for example, the Minister for Agriculture said directly that if euro payments in agriculture were to decrease temporarily in the coming years, this would have to be compensated from the state budget for the financing of education, social welfare and culture. Euro money is a very important support for our investment projects, but with euro money we cannot solve the problem of 'national fixed costs'. The country cannot be run on a project basis. We all know that, and we've known for years. Last week, there was a debate in the government office where the Minister of Finance gave a brief overview of the country's socio-economic situation. The Minister also discussed how the European Union's money, which Estonia is hoping to receive during the new funding period, is generally intended to be used. This review, in my opinion, adequately and honestly reflects the main problems that need to be resolved. I hope that these government discussions will lead to sensible decisions. Estonia's current general practice shows, however, that the necessary decisions do not tend to be made in time. The closer to the elections, the less reform readiness there is. But the next year, the harder it is to make the necessary decisions, and the harder we get to the reverse. Good listeners! A few weeks ago, the National Audit Office published a report entitled "Activities of the Government of the Republic in assessing the impact of its work and reporting on the results." In this we examined whether the government knows what problems hinder the development of the Estonian state, how the government solves these problems, or how the government makes decisions, and how the results of its activities are reported to taxpayers. I can assure you that the government is aware of Estonia's obstacles to development. A hundred development plans have been drawn up to eliminate them. I couldn't count the goals, but there's probably a thousand of them. Governments have written in their development plans what needs to be changed in society. There are many of these desires, and sometimes they may be against one another, but most of them are about improving people's lives. But the development plans are just paper. Knowing the problems doesn't cost anything if you don't follow the actions. There is a need for real cooperation in governance areas, prioritisation, bold consideration of costs and replay, if necessary, because development plans must be lively and not dead documents. For example, can we say with a calm heart that this is the way we make decisions? Absolutely not. I say this on the basis of the materials of our audits, as well as my experience in the last 20 years as Chancellor of the Ministry and Auditor General of the State. There is no mention of achieving or failing to achieve objectives in the distribution of money. Four of the five ministries examined during the audit found that there were no substantive budget negotiations. The audit also showed that action plans and reports are prepared in many respects because they are simply intended to do so. The state budget is put together by a mathematical formula, not by considering priorities and objectives, and based on analysis. By the way, according to the same principle, during the crisis, cuts were still on the ruler, making sure that the coalition ministry did not suddenly have to give up any more money and that its own party ministry did not have to give up any more money. This ruler system has also been criticised by the current Minister of Finance himself. Good guys in the hall! If you take away the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act 2013, I don't know how you're gonna read what you're gonna give the government to achieve. I'll give you an example. In the draft State Budget Act next year, more than 200 million euros, or more than three billion kroons, have been planned for the Minister of Economic Affairs for financing operations. It's almost as much money as it was in the entire Estonian state budget in 1993. This is the biggest investment of the state, but neither a member of the Riigikogu nor other Estonian citizens will know from the budget who this money goes to and how it will be used for the benefit of the taxpayer. Instead of the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, it should be read in the newspaper that this 200 million euros goes to Eesti Energia. But what does the company do with the money? Why does the state still have to put that money there as owner? Why do we need $200 million, why not $350 million or $99 million? This year they will receive 150 million euros in the same way. In the case of these transactions, it should be borne in mind that they are considered to be financing transactions and are not included in the cost of the public budget balance. When dealing with the state budget for the coming year, please try to get an answer from the government to the questions that anyone interested in the prudent use of their money will ask. These are: what do we want to achieve, what do we do to achieve this goal and, finally, how much does it cost? The government's work on the budget can be assessed on the basis of whether these three questions can be answered. If so, new questions should be asked to the government next year: did you achieve the goal, did you do what you intended, and did it cost as much as you thought it would? Unfortunately, at the moment, these issues remain in the air, although this is the way the government should report. Good listeners! It is quite sad to talk for years about hospital reform, education reform, etc., and at the same time to see that reforms are rather avoided by offering replacement activities instead. In this way, efforts are being made to keep what reformers call stability. It is important, however, to perceive a limit where stability goes beyond stagnation. However, with your kind permission, I will make a few observations on the subject of reforms. Education. The challenge of finding and ensuring a balance between the quality and accessibility of education needs to be addressed. The Estonian general education system has three major and interrelated tasks: adapting the school network, skills and motivation of teachers and implementing new curricula. The organisation of the school network is inevitable that the state will in future be able to provide education that can compete in the wider world and that it will be able to pay teachers a decent salary. I stress that here the state and local authorities must cooperate, not compete. But this cooperation is still at a standstill. Although the Supreme Court has instructed the Government of the Republic to organise the municipal financing system in such a way as to rely on a clear division of public tasks into state and local government, its execution is still in the shadow of death. Unemployment and labour shortages. The survey shows that 98% of our entrepreneurs complain that they cannot easily find employees with suitable skills and knowledge in Estonia. A whole third of the Estonian workforce has virtually no specialty or profession. Many people have been unable to find work for years. In March 2010, with 95000 registered unemployed, 11000 of them had been unemployed for more than two years.In September 2012, the number of registered unemployed had fallen to 37000, but the long-term unemployed still have more than 10,000. Yes, some may not be able to re-enter the labour market, but long-term unemployment and structural unemployment require special attention, as they are increasingly complex and costly to reduce over time. Health care. The Estonian health care system is said to be effective. Yeah. But the cost of this efficiency is increased year-on-year treatment queues and increased workload for doctors. The longer a person has to wait for treatment, the more likely he or she will be to use emergency care. That's what's looking back on our charts. The number of emergency patients has increased by approximately 40,000 in the last two years, and the number of emergency calls by 20000. In 2008, there were 38000 people without health insurance, and as of last year, there were already twice as many as 73000. Three things that definitely require your attention in healthcare are completing the reform of the hospital network, reviewing the family medical care system and monitoring health services and the pharmaceutical market. There was a plan to clean up the hospital network 12 years ago. Then, due to political pressure, a new, easing scheme was introduced. During the doctor's strike, there was another discussion about the organization of the hospital network, so perhaps now... But do you really believe that anything will actually be done before the forthcoming local elections? These are just a few of the problems that the annual overview of the National Audit Office in your hands discusses. My message to you is that, despite the easing of this time of the crisis, the development of Estonian society is a great chalice. Please pay attention to them before it is brought to your attention by people on the street and in front of government buildings! For years, the National Audit Office has drawn attention to and will continue to lead to problems. Our advice and approach may or may not be accepted, but energy should go to problem-solving rather than trying to use one or the other assessment to attack someone. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian economy is becoming increasingly troubled by the lack of working hands. The government has predicted that in 2020 there will be about 65,000 fewer people of working age in Estonia than today. That's seven years from now. In 2030, 107000 working persons will be less, while retirement age will be more. What does this mean for public revenue and expenditure? What does this mean for the state's capabilities? How to increase state revenue Which Estonia can we run? I am very pleased that it is precisely on this topic that we will be able to celebrate Estonia in two weeks' time that the President of the Republic's think tank will be in noisy. By the way, the problem of working hands caused by demographic changes is also exacerbated by the deep historical complexes of our society, which prevent Estonia from opening itself to the world. Yes, physically we are more open than ever, mentally and mentally, but unfortunately, I feel more and more limited, narrow-minded and closed in society. When the Minister for Economic Affairs, speaking recently about migrant labour, ironically exclaimed whether the Prime Minister should give flowers to new arrivals on the border, I imagine, in a figurative way, yes. The development of companies, the inflow of foreign capital and the internationalisation of Estonia depend on the presence of foreign specialists. But what about the attitude towards other peoples of the world when the President of the Republic was forced to take stock of the "Talents to Home" programme is that negative attitudes and intolerance even hinder our own people's return more than a loss of income or any bureaucratic obstacle. Let us listen to entrepreneurs who have long understood that the global hunt for brains and skills has been lost in advance when we sit in our clout complexes and in the viciousness of crowding others. People, however, require money, work, higher pensions and benefits. Where's the money coming from? Is it from the IRS, or are we going to take it out of the closet like we used to in the newer days? It should be understood, however, that we are so rich, how much entrepreneurship we have, and how wealthy are our entrepreneurs who bring money to the Treasury. Therefore, in addition to the government and the Riigikogu, every person should help to develop Estonia's economic strength and society in a progressive and rational manner. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has become a country integrated with the world. We are in the European Union, NATO, OECD and elsewhere. Our people also live on average longer than ten years ago. They make twice as much money for their work as they did ten years ago. The state budget, which finances the services provided by the state, has tripled. However, I do not remember as much dissatisfaction with the rule of my country as I do now. How do you explain that? Why are teachers, many of whom depend on our children's breakthrough ability, unhappy? Why did the strike choose doctors to extend their lives every day or to help someone return to their lives to meet their demands? Why are sad and frustrated rescuers and police officers whose job is to keep Estonia safe for us? Is it not because, if they did not recall themselves in this way, they would often not exist for decision-makers, or if they did, they would not be taken as people, but as a statistical average in some Excel table or PowerPoint presentation. But the problem with statistics is that it's anonymous. It often has little in common with real life. However, the country is made up of people, not statistical averages or places anywhere in indexes. The country is also made up of people whose concerns are not reduced against the background of rising lines and growing columns. I come back to the question of whether society is more sympathetic and happy now. It is true that many tensions are also mitigated by your friends and close, caring and tolerant societies, and by the dignified, reliable, open-minded and sympathetic leaders. A sympathetic attitude often matters more than direct money. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We do not know how long we can rely on European Union aid or what the European debt crisis will bring to us. We must hurry to build and rebuild our country and to implement reforms. You in this Chamber have been chosen and ordered to make decisions, not to postpone them. It is no longer a question of whether the government will be able to 'work up' our country during its term of office. The question is how the government can prepare the country and society to solve difficult problems in the future. I think we need a change in the way decisions are made. Any new ideas need to be analysed and determined on the basis of a comprehensive rational impact analysis and its own possibilities. It doesn't matter whether the idea and solution are offered by convinced soccer, liberals, centrists, conservatives, greens or blues. It doesn't matter if the coalition or the opposition makes any sense. If the solution leads to a goal, then it must be done. The view that we are not even going to discuss this or this, because it is contrary to a party dogma or a pompous slogan that has been beaten to the head for years, does not go on. Both the coalition and the opposition have thought here. Very long-term power provides experience and knowledge, but involves the risk of stagnation and arrogance, and can also create a complex of irreplaceability. However, a prolonged absence from government responsibility or a lack of experience reduces the ability to be an equal and responsible partner to the government, who does not just bully or embarrass himself with his incompetence. Good listeners! I know I didn't say anything new today that you wouldn't have known before. It's been a long time since you've known what's in our review. In fact, many solutions are known. However, decisions are needed for the future of the country. I wasn't talking about administrative reform today. It probably doesn't make any sense either, because even though the regional minister has started a new attempt and expects feedback from the parties for the day after tomorrow, the same rake is on the way. But what to do. The place of choice remains whether the state wishes to become a strong partner or whether the majority of Estonia passes through Estonia with local governments that have only the capacity of a swingground. But that's also a choice. When I thought about what I would take back from ten years of being the Auditor General, it is the understanding that over the years, we have accounted for the buildings of the Estonian state, the land and the money more or less properly and have valued fair value. But the most expensive asset still awaits the fair value assessment, registration, and reasonable use of our mental balance sheet. It's our human resources. Thank you for your cooperation over the past ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U214	Thank you very much, Mr. Auditor General. We'll get to the questions and answers. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. In your report, you will, among other things, point out that the government has not sufficiently directed the ministries to meaningful cooperation. I remember when I gave a radio interview to Juku-Kalle Raid five years ago as a young minister, he asked me what was the biggest difference between working in the private sector and working in the public sector. I replied that, in my opinion, the fact that ministries do not cooperate sufficiently but rather compete with each other. We know that the top executive in the company is responsible for the cooperation of the departments. You describe the same problem five years later. We now have the same prime minister who was five years ago. My question is: who do you think is primarily responsible in Estonia for ensuring that ministries cooperate more?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U216	The short answer is that you are responsible. We're talking about a very complicated situation. I brought this so-called ruler example. When we started talking about a possible raise next year, we were talking about defining a priority. Perhaps one, two or three employees, who are in a particularly difficult situation, should raise their salary, say, 10%. Maybe people like that are saviors, maybe teachers or doctors, maybe someone else. But what finally happened? Eventually, 4% and a little. It's the same problem I've been seeing all along. No minister wants to go back to their ministry so that they can point the finger at him why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications got so much, but the Ministry of Social Affairs doesn't get so much, or why the Ministry of Culture got less. This is, in my opinion, a problem to which I cannot find a solution other than through political culture. We need to be able to agree and overcome our 'partisan limitations'.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U217	Thank you very much. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General, First of all, thank you for your good speech and also for your work over the years. My question may be a little unexpected, but I do not doubt your ability to answer that question. This morning the Energy Forum was held, where the construction of the LNG terminal in Estonia was discussed. The last questioner there was the representative of the National Audit Office, who questioned with his question what the liberalisation of the gas market and the LNG terminal are for us at all, because the gas sold by Gazprom is cheaper. Perhaps with a single question, the representative of the National Audit Office questioned the need to ensure competition on the gas market and the necessity of joining Estonia as an energy island with the European Union, i.e. Estonia's energy security, preferring the monopoly used as an instrument of neighbouring state power, because it is cheaper. You are the head of the National Audit Office. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U219	Thank you for this question. Our whole economic logic is based on free competition. That's clear. If there is no competition, this economic model will not work. That's one. Second, let's look at ourselves from a client perspective. Which electricity package do I choose under the same conditions? Undoubtedly, this package, which is the cheapest. When we're talking about the gas market, it's exactly the same here. Man ultimately chooses the package that comes to him at a cheaper price. I am of the opinion that more gas suppliers could be brought to Estonia, the more they are, the better. But if one of them is cheaper, then I am not very convinced that a large number of people would think of it, regardless of the considerations, that they would choose a more expensive supplier for gas, whether it is from Russia or Arabia. I guess it's the same as it's electric. If we choose the electricity package, we don't know where that electricity really comes from. We know that the European Union imports electricity from Russia. We all know that. We know that a preliminary agreement has been concluded between the nuclear power plant in Kaliningrad and Finland and Sweden. When we're ready for new Estlink cables, what origin energy comes from there, we don't know that. I don't know who asked for it, but believe me, I'm not going to investigate in my department who asked a horrible question that came from the notion that people want to get cheaper electricity or gas. There's no witch hunt in our house. In our house, a person can express an opinion in public, and he can also ask questions. My firm conviction is that there are no stupid questions, but often there are stupid answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U220	Thank you very much. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Auditor General! Thank you very much for your presentation, which was as meaningful as ever! Since you have announced that you will perform in this role for the last time in the Riigikogu, I have a question for you: what recommendation do you give to the Riigikogu and the new person who will continue to make presentations here instead of you, how can we achieve better cooperation so that the proposals resulting from your presentations are implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U222	Better cooperation is inevitable in our society and country. In my opinion, one of the most important problems is what I spoke about in a few sentences: where is the limit between stability and stagnation? I can give you a very vivid example. About ten years ago, Nokia (not from Nokia Estonia, but from this real Nokia) wrote that this organization was strong because of its stability. But what are we gonna talk about him now? Stability grew beyond stagnation. I don't know how many of you still have Nokia's cell phone, which was a matter of honor and pride ten years ago. That's problem number one. The other thing is political culture, the way people communicate on a human level. Long ago, there was a reception for the president. It was nice to watch people group on a party principle: the people of one party, the people of another party and the people of the third party. Let's look at old democracies. Very much is described, for example, in the English Parliament, where people in Parliament fight angryly for truth and justice, but then they go together for birthdays, go to the pub for beer, etc. Dear Esther Tuiksoo, when was the last time you attended, for example, the birthday of Taavi Clothes? Good human contacts are important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U223	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U224	Thank you. Thank you very much for the work you have done and for an interesting presentation. There's a place I don't understand. You accused the government of using too many statistics, figures and indices that real life is something else. Almost every audit by the National Audit Office contains a number of statistics, figures, comparisons. So next time, should the staff of the National Audit Office send back home and tell them to tell us how things really are in poetry or in another language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U225	Thank you for your question. I never said the government uses too many figures and statistics. But what I'm saying is that statistics and figures can be interpreted very differently. I can give many examples of when certain figures have been completely interpreted differently. That is, in my opinion, the whole issue now. When interpreting figures, you must be careful and also look at what is often behind the figures. For example, if we are in a positive sense by certain parameters in the world among the first ten or twenty, then we take a priori that this is absolute truth. But if somewhere it is said that we are at Ugandan level in terms of gender equality, 60th place, there is a statement that the statistics still do not reflect anything, one component is not included, the other component is overestimated, etc. Once again, statistics have many meanings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U226	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U227	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! Thank you very much for a very meaningful and thoughtful overview. That's what your reports have always been like. My question comes from the local governments. You have been saying here for years that the reform of local governments is inevitable. This time you also introduced the issue of state reform. But I am actually interested in your opinion on the decision made by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court in March 2010. You have also pointed out in your review that the alliances have expressed their views on how to proceed with the process, and they have also presented them to the government, but cooperation has not actually been achieved. It is also known that Estonia has joined the European Charter for Local Government, one of which has a postulate that municipalities must have enough money. Does the state of Estonia currently fulfil its obligations to local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U228	Thank you! There were several questions at once. First of all, administrative reform. As far as I am concerned, this is not conceivable without state reform. But that's it. Administrative reform is inevitable. I must say that there are many areas where I have failed. One failure is that about five years ago, I set the goal that when I put this office down, the administrative reform has been done in Estonia. The local government and regional administration department of the Ministry of Home Affairs has produced a lot of materials that show that this cannot go on. There's no way we can go on with this. Once there was a postulate, so all right, we're gonna reform, but then the rural area is gonna run out of people. I wonder if anything hasn't been done, do people run back from town to the country? I see tens of thousands of people leaving the country, coming to town, etc. I have an idea: is there any need for administrative reform now, which we will be able to gain by doing so? The Earth's run out of people, people don't have a job. This trend continues. If we were to do the reform now, it would be very easy to say that the same reform placed the cross on the grave of self-governance. That's what I'm most afraid of right now. It's exactly the same when the doctor cuts the patient open and then says it's too late for surgery, the right time is over. I'm afraid the right time is over. The decision of the Supreme Court is, in my opinion, very good and correct. We can define the functions that the municipality must perform, etc. But my question right now is, who's going to do it in the country? There are, of course, different municipalities. I'm not talking about Tallinn, I'm not talking about Tartu. But we do not only have Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, Narva etc., there are a little more municipalities. There's nothing money can do anymore. But that is the opinion of the outgoing Auditor General.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U229	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U230	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, This year the National Audit Office has also dealt with unemployment and found that unemployment does not decrease by itself. At the same time, it has been stated that after the creation of the unemployment fund and the task of the Labour Market Board in the Ministry of Social Affairs has been assigned to the unemployment fund, the state has left itself to the role of an observer in solving unemployment, as if it were not a ministry issue. The National Audit Office has noted that several solutions have been put in place, but they have not been heard and no specific plan has been made that takes account of the regional distribution, aimed at preventing long-term unemployment or bringing the long-term unemployed back into the labour market. Who's supposed to do this plan? The Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs, or someone in the fourth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U231	When we looked at unemployment issues, I was most startled by this: 98% of businesses say that they would be ready to increase production immediately, there is a market, there would be orders, all it takes is for them to get a skilled workforce from somewhere. 98% of entrepreneurs! Think about it. Look at these figures that show what reality is. What's happened? Long-term unemployment is one thing. But another problem that bothers me is that we have so many unqualified people who do not have any special education, who, during the boom, went to move the shovel or put Gyproc records on the construction site, etc. This is, in my opinion, the first problem. Unemployment is in many respects a matter of education. People with no professional competence can't find a job. We can talk about them anything. Who is responsible for unemployment? Auditor General, Riigikogu, Government, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Education and Research are responsible for unemployment. We're all responsible for this problem because we're actually sitting on a gunpowder barrel. That's where we add our outrage so that no one comes across the border. Look at the bill, think about what's gonna happen to us in five, ten or fifteen years. Why am I so worried? I want to get a pension at the end of the day!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U232	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U233	Thank you! Dear Auditor General! I, too, want to thank you for your long service and for the political guidelines you gave us today. But you pointed out at the beginning of your presentation today that you want broad support from the Riigikogu for your successor, whose name the President of the Republic will soon have to give us. This presentation made it seem, at least to me, that you know who your successor is. Can we find out, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U234	The candidate for the new Auditor General will be presented to Parliament by the President of the Republic of Estonia for approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U235	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U236	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Auditor General! Thank you very much for your meaningful and effective cooperation. I find it always interesting to listen to the presentations of the National Audit Office, led by you, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it offers to look in the mirror both to the Riigikogu and to the government. You came out here a while ago by not taking sufficient account of development plans, priorities and action plans when putting together the state budget. What advice do you give? Who should carry out this audit so that those action plans that do not work can be completed? What kind of instant is that supposed to be? Is this a Riigikogu or a government level? Who should review these development plans and take them into account in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U237	Thank you for your question. We really do have a lot of development plans. If we look at an objective situation, there is also one reason for the European Union. In order to obtain funding from the European Union, it was necessary to submit development plans for certain areas to the European Union. That is why the problem began to flourish. Once again, a development plan in itself is needed in all systems, if this development plan is a document, according to which it is financed. The development plan is a document which needs to be reviewed periodically. We are still talking about the old development plans for electricity production not working, but there are no new development plans, and we are making decisions that affect us for decades. Who's supposed to do that? I can tell from this remote control that the Riigikogu is still the master of our country. The one you're assigning this task to, either to the government or to anyone else, is your wise decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U238	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! I, too, thank you for bringing the shortcomings to your attention over the years and for evaluating a number of areas of life. One of your statements is that local authorities are currently in the same position as they are because of the weak support of the state. On the other hand, cooperation between municipalities is also weak. I would argue that cooperation between local governments is project-based and that we could move on from there. How do you assess the local government at the county level? What future do you see for the local governments in terms of legislative regulation or any other possibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U240	Thank you. Please, Aare Heinvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U241	Thank you! As far as local governments are concerned, I have to admit that I read from one scandal after another: though leaving the local government union with a ruckus, it is declared that they do not need or deserve this EUR 10,000 or EUR 20000, they will do better, and so on. It is difficult for me to say what is the main problem with local governments as a whole, why they are unable to cooperate. Perhaps the tasks are not clearly set out, perhaps there are political differences. But self-government associations are in fact voluntary associations with no binding legal basis. It was once thought that local governments could be entrusted with the tasks currently carried out by rural governments to a different system of local governments. It's really hard for me to tell you the answer right now. I, following these processes, see contradictions and misunderstanding. I see very little in common with which self-government associations would have dealt and worked effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U242	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, In your speeches, you have still paid attention to cooperation or lack of cooperation. Cooperation is a higher level of communication and it is best to set an example for its implementation. What advice would you give the Riigikogu in the context of the reform of the state, which you mentioned? Could the Riigikogu set an example for the sake of state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U243	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U244	The answer here can only be very short: of course. After all, all the people in the Riigikogu are watching what is happening, how members of the Riigikogu interact, how they behave with people, what information they provide to people, how they provide the public with information about their colleagues. All of this, in my opinion, is extremely important and meaningful. Well, we all have to start by looking inside ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U245	Thank you very much. Good Auditor General! Thank you for your presentation and thank you very much for your almost ten years of cooperation. Here's the question. The report was quite dark, and it can be seen out there that the tones are dark. But can you tell us all if it's been just a dark tone for ten years? You've seen a long development as Auditor General. Has anything gotten better, or has the situation just fallen and fallen all the time? But where he fell, he couldn't start from high up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U246	Thank you! You see, the office of Auditor General is not very grateful. Basically, we have been called and set up to assess the risks, to analyse them and then to draw attention to the problems that we believe need to be resolved. This is our main function. How much does a government or a political party criticize themselves for being like this or different! That's one function. In the meantime, I also thought about not leaving this remote control in a very black mood. I have to say that in time I have visited a great many countries, which are our former confederations. I have been to Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Ukraine, not long ago in Georgia, etc. I must tell you quite honestly that we have actually done very well. If we compare our economic, social and political situation with the situation in all these countries, we must say that we can be proud. But I least like this demagogue class, that when we start talking about the salaries of doctors or teachers, we say: but in Finland or Sweden, this salary is either so high or so high. We cannot compare ourselves to them. It's the perfect picture. The systems have evolved completely differently, but now we are suddenly going to compare them, saying, but in Finland, the doctor gets so much pay. After all, where have the doctors in Finland gone? Think about why they don't have doctors. Although this is not directly relevant to the issue at the moment, it concerns health care in one way or another. One of the world's best health systems is in Israel. That's where the doctors' salaries are very good. But Israel was recently invited to work with 200 doctors from Eastern Europe because their best doctors have pulled away the United States, which can pay even more to doctors. It's not so easy that we raise our wages and then the doctors stay here. They move where the conditions are better. I thought I would leave this sentence at the end of the day, but since Mrs Ergma is such a dignified person, I am already saying that Estonia is a country that has handled itself very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U247	Thank you very much. We're going to the next question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U248	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! I want to know what you think. How do you assess the relationship between these two brothers: the state on the one hand, the local authorities on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U249	Thank you for your question. I appreciate this relationship like a bad marriage. They're together, but they don't really love each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U250	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your long cooperation. We have made good use of the European Union's Structural Funds in a number of areas. I am thinking of investments. Can you tell me whether there is an area among them where investments made from European Union funds would not have been overinvestment and a waste of money in view of the real needs of specific items?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U252	Thank you! Let's get started. I have to say that I think that very many Estonian buildings are overpopular. It should be borne in mind that they must also be maintained. I am not a specialist in this field, but when I drive from Tallinn to Narva and reach the intersection of Haljala, I do not understand why there must be a huge intersection with a detour. I've been on this road a lot. Maybe there'll help with a decent traffic light, and it'll be fine. I don't know the answer, I'm not a specialist in this field. But we were very proud that we were able to make use of the money very quickly. We were one of the best in the European Union to use this money. But right now, a lot of people are starting to think that some of these buildings are too pompous. In addition, we must consider the need to maintain them all. Buildings require costs to support them over many years. That, in my opinion, is a problem. When the European Union as a whole was audited, it turned out that around EUR 5 billion were used in an inefficient way. Our role is marginal there, but when I read about what happened in EAS, it seems that we have been too proud of our regularity, thinking that we cannot have these problems, for example, in other countries. Oh, these other countries, Greece, Spain and Portugal, they can happen, but we can't! Turns out it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U253	Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I, too, thank you for your good report and for your ten-year work. I listened very carefully to your presentation. It is difficult not to accept the main concern that I have heard from this report, that, although the economy is growing, our desires and expectations are growing faster, the population is ageing, costs are increasing and there is no money left. Some suggestions or ideas you gave in your presentation. It's hard not to accept one of them. Indeed, we have a shortage of labour and maybe we should be bolder to bring specialists and brains in from the outside. You also spoke on the expenditure side of the reforms that have not been carried out, or at least the education reform that has been carried out too hard. But maybe you still have a few ideas left on your mind in those ten years that you didn't get to say, whether it's on the revenue side or on the expense side? Where can we move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U255	You know, there's been a lot of gathering on my soul in this ten-year period. But given that my time limit here is extremely limited, I'm not going to analyze all this right now. This could be the subject of a separate debate, even in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Some of these decisions are undoubtedly political, but others are those that cannot and must not be postponed. Here, exactly the same priorities. The most important thing is to do what we know should be done. Let's go back to this unfortunate hospital reform. We have repeatedly come back to this over the last 15 years: we have to do, we have to do, we have to do, we have to do. If we look at the educational costs, I am very pleased that Minister Aaviksoo has started this process. But if we start looking into this process, it turns out there's a strain. If we start looking at this question a little bit, what's it gonna be? For example, one school has been renovated for euro money in Viljandi and another school has been renovated. We could put one of these houses in a state gymnasium, but we're building a new school there. We're building new schools in all county centers. It's a typical bungalow! We are spending millions and millions of euros on this, which could basically be spent on teachers' salaries. It is not easy to build and maintain two parallel school systems. We have municipal secondary schools and we have state secondary schools, both need separate administrative capacity. It's complicated. You have to go through these things one by one. But if there's a strain, then the question is, who's gonna push that stick out of the way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U256	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U257	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General! Thank you very much for today's presentation, but also for the very right and bold, critical, often self-critical views that have been outlined above! In today's presentation (without comparison with other countries), you pointed out that we have more than 10,000 long-term unemployed and 73000 uninsured people at the health insurance fund. In this light, how does the coalition's idea of reducing another 1% of income tax in 2015 seem to you to reduce the state's income with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U258	Thank you for this question. Your colleague, Rait Maruste, who has just left the hall, said that he listened as I did to my political guidelines. I must first say that I am, in spite of everything, a political man. I would never become a politician. I think that's out of the question. As far as the tax burden is concerned, as in many other matters, there are two sides. If a reduction in the tax burden leads to investment and could lead to new jobs, then it is good. If he doesn't bring it with him, then the problems may get worse. That's the whole problem. There are no rules or medications that are the only good or the only bad. The same is true of the tax burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U259	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U260	Mikhail Stalnukhin, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U261	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Oviir! I have a deeply personal question for you as a person who has watched for ten years how life goes in the Riigikogu. I agree with you that we need an exchange of words and a constructive debate to resolve the problems. I have this feeling that 14 years ago, and a few years after that, it was when I was here for the first time, there was this debate. The situation began to change when the people of the Riigikogu were banned from being on local councils. Then the involvement with the electorate, the resident of the local government, ended, and the opinion of one or another political party leader became a priority. What is your attitude, perhaps you should come back to the situation where we can be both in the local government and in the Riigikogu? Maybe that'll fix it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U262	I have to say, I have an opinion on a few things. For example, the boards of state companies. From there, I'd take the politicians out and man them only with specialists. But it's a matter of its own. As far as the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the councils is concerned, as far as I have experience and the look of an observer, it does not bother me. It doesn't bother me, but I really don't remember what those arguments were about why this provision was incorporated into the law. This is never, in my opinion, a very important issue. I didn't think it would have much to do with it. The question is, can a man do a job in both places? As we know, in many countries of the world, a person is at the same time a member of parliament and a city or parish council. Personally, I do not see a problem here, but I do not recall at the moment these arguments as to why this provision was introduced into the law and this possibility was banned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U263	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U264	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your meaningful presentation and the work done. You pointed out the inventive facts and figures. For example, investments in public finances in our own taxpayers' money will fall from EUR 427 million in 2014 to EUR 152 million in 2016, the number of births will decrease and, despite savings, reserves will decrease and debts will increase. How do you see Estonia in ten years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U265	I must say that I have never been a pessimist towards the Estonian state, but I have never been too much of an optimist. In order to maintain balance, you have to see, I'll say again, a little bit wider. If you look at our fate mates in other parts of the former USSR, you can see that we have handled ourselves very well. When you compare yourself with the other half, Finland and Sweden, you can see that there will be no easy times. That is also clear to everyone. My questions are as follows. How can we stay in international competition? How can we produce goods that we can sell dearly? Here comes the money at last. Where do we find intellectual potential? It's not possible to do everything in a blacksmith's way. You know, in a lot of areas, we've got specialists being snuffed out of us. But I say again: my opinion is that our only way and opportunity is a well-open society. If a good specialist is ready to come to Estonia and start working here, I will always welcome him wherever he comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U266	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U267	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Very respectable waitress, Mr. Auditor General! First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu for a very good report and for its 10-year cooperation with the Riigikogu as Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice. While you were in these leading positions, you made an important contribution to the development of the Estonian state. I hope that you will continue to make your proposals. But here's my question. We will look at and analyse your assessment of local government reform. You said it might be too late. Can the reform of the school network or the non-reform of the school network not raise the same question? The children are all concentrated somewhere, and with all this debate we may already be late.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U268	Dear Mailis Reps, as far as I know, you are also a parent. What do we want for our children? There's two things. Do we want him to get a high-quality education that gives him a chance to go anywhere in life, or do we want him to run to a school near a wet lawn when he hears the bell ringing in the spring? It's actually roughly our choice. We're trying to find all kinds of intermediates. I do not believe that, given our declining population, we can maintain the'maximum near-home' school network. I agree that in the first, second and third years, children could study near home. But I will say once again that we have two options, in my opinion, in the mistaken person's view: whether we are talking about quality education or close to home. They are, in my opinion, extremely difficult to reconcile at the moment, for very different reasons, which it would be very difficult to highlight here. That, in my opinion, is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U269	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for everything. You said that the Estonian state has done very well with itself. However, sometimes it seems that the Estonian state wants Europe to look much better than it really is. We have recently made allocations from the state budget in the form of guarantees from the European Financial Stability Fund, and we have also made contributions to the ESM. These are not small amounts, they are large amounts, in tens of millions of euros. If I ask you how long it will be, you will certainly say that this is our Riigikogu business. However, here in the Riigikogu today it has been said that we have many unemployed people and that we also have many people without health insurance. Maybe you can finish by giving us three fatherly suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U271	It is human that we want to look better in Europe than we really are. I want to look better, prettier and smarter than I really am. You can't judge anyone for that. After all, all these struggles around the ESM are actually a matter of the European Union. It always gets to me when I read about energy security that we do not know what will happen to the European Union, the euro will fall, the European Union will fall, and then we will all live in fart light again. We have to have something specific we're building. We say that the European Union is the surest place in which we want to belong and where we have to contribute. Of course, this contribution is difficult for us, I agree with that. Of course, it makes you angry to see, once again, the money is given to the Greeks and so on. But neither is the life of the Greeks easy, believe me. My idea and desire is that we must continue to work with our perseverance. That's one. Secondly, we should try to improve relations on a purely human level. I have nothing against any party. We must be able to discuss the problems rationally so that the objective is one. But these are general recommendations and rules that you all know much better than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U272	Thank you very much. No further questions, Mr. Auditor General. We'll take 30 seconds to thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U273	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U274	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the sitting. Now it's time for a negotiation. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U275	Madam President! Mr. Auditor General! Colleagues! One good Estonian man once said that only free exchange and face-to-face will help Estonia. I would instantly sign those words. That's my conviction, too. I think a lot of people in this room would do the same. But the first signature would still be the second, it would be the signature of Mihkel Oviir, because those are the words of our Auditor General. If you could see, today he also said that we need more debate, we need fewer papers, fewer figures and more statistics, but more debate, more facts and more specifically life to take into account. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, thank you for your cooperation. It's a shame you decided not to run anymore. Going to the brief review of today's report and the report that was presented to us, I would remind you that a year ago, in a similar sitting, a colleague in this Chamber asked a question. That was the last question that could be asked to the Auditor General. I'll pass on the content of the question. You had said that many decisions would be taken because someone wanted to like someone, a group of voters, a group of entrepreneurs or someone else. This person asked Mr. Oviir who wants to like him. The Auditor General replied that he did not want anyone to like or consider it necessary. This report, which is yet again before us, is exactly in line with this idea. Once again, there was a sentence in the speech about the state budget. I support the idea that the state budget is completely opaque. I have already told you that ten years and more ago, the state budget looked like any person with secondary education picked it up and figured out where the purpose and how much money was going. Now, the situation is that even if the most qualified accountant picks up the project that's being distributed to us, he doesn't understand a damn thing. So progress is going to be progress, but budgeting is getting more and more blurry. Once again, we have been offered the problem of the second-largest price increase in the European Union nullifying the wage growth of Estonians, and it was precisely the price increase that boosted tax revenues. We know these points of pain, but repeating is a very useful thing. Despite austerity, national reserves are decreasing and debts are increasing, the education system is waiting for changes, access to health services is decreasing and access to medicines could be improved, but this is not happening. We had a lot of talk about the unemployed today. The state has not decided where Estonia can get electricity in the long term, etc. In the last few seconds of my speech, I want to come back to what I started and say once again: ladies and gentlemen, we need to develop a dialogue. This infinite war in this Chamber of Riigikogu ends with the loss of everything. There are no winners in a fight. I'll tell you this like a boxer. For a moment, it seems you've won, but it's also a loss when you won with your fist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U276	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U277	Dear Auditor General Mihkel Oviir! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir and his hard-working team for last year's review of the use and preservation of state assets and the accuracy of the annual financial report and the legality of transactions! The world has never been perfect, and it never will. The annual summaries of the National Audit Office are, by their very nature, a means of helping the state to move one step closer to the ideal in its economic and financial activities in the coming years. Constructive criticality is an inherited part of the summaries of the National Audit Office, so this time I read the report with the idea of whether there are any good words. Yeah, they do. The report says that 2011 was better than expected for the Estonian economy and that exports became the engine of economic growth. Of course we know that. But speaking of the relationship between forecasts and reality, the National Audit Office gives an example that the Ministry of Finance predicted an increase in exports of goods and services of 9% last year, in fact the increase was 24.9%. However, according to this report, the National Audit Office is not satisfied that we have too little Estonian export data to understand and support export content, because Statistics Estonia is based on international requirements for collecting data. I have learned from Eurostat, which collects statistics from the European Union, that the collection of statistics is also constantly evolving towards greater transparency, better understanding and comparability between countries. As was said in Eurostat: if the measurement of data is not accurate, it is also difficult to make forecasts and plan budgets. Another good example is that in recent years the work of our scientists and the publication of high-level scientific publications have progressed well. However, the National Audit Office notes that more attention needs to be paid to how the work of researchers can bring real benefits to the knowledge-based economy, which is one of the preconditions for increasing competitiveness. It is probably interesting to highlight one of the figures from the report: in one decade, R &amp; D funding has increased from EUR 46 million to EUR 232 million. We could continue with a few other good examples, but I want to touch more on one subject of criticism, the country's strategy documents, which according to the National Audit Office has been adopted a lot, more than a hundred. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the working hours of officials who have been spent in establishing a system of development plans have been discarded. The National Audit Office is not directly complaining about the large number of development documents, but that these documents are not actually used in the administration of the state, budgeting and resource planning. Practitioners in local governments can claim from their experience that development plans and the objectives formulated there are, however, in mind when drawing up budgets. I am absolutely sure that this will also be done in the country. It is true that a good development plan is not, of course, a dogmatic document which, by sticking rigidly to it, can achieve enormously better results. All practitioners mostly disagree here. We remember when the spacious and dream-rich development plans were drawn up at a time when the current seven-year funding period for the European Union began. There was a pragmatic flexibility of development plans to include external resources. I very much liked that Mr Oviir stressed that the development plan was actually a living document that had to accompany changing times. I guess he is. It is not as if it is necessary to repeat that the drawing up of strategic plans is a process of analysis and synthesis, during which officials and the public can play a part in setting priorities, to reach common understanding in a situation where resources are less than wishes. Unfortunately, this is almost always the case. Perhaps only in some very rich oil countries, the opposite is that there are more resources than dreams. In fact, it is very good that the National Audit Office critically deals with the issue of development plans, and it is even better that an overview of all these strategy papers is also planned. I believe in constructive criticism that leads to life. This work has been well done by the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office was, is and will remain. I heard several times today in this Chamber that Mr Oviir was thanked for his ten-year work. I know you will continue in your profession and I wish you the strength to do so! I would like you to have a keen eye and a critical mind when you close the door to your office and leave the officials in the care of a new leader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U278	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The item has been exhausted. Thank you very much to all those who took part in the discussion! Once again, thank you to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U279	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2011. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you the country's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2011. You have just heard the National Audit Office's assessment of this. Let us first look at the whole picture. For Estonia, 2011 was first and foremost a confirmation of the need for a conservative economic policy. Direct recognition for the difficult decisions made was Estonia's accession to the euro area from 1 January. Despite the continuing uncertainty in the global economy, Estonia reached a surplus of 1.1% of GDP last year. The general government debt ratio remained low at 6.1% of GDP. Estonia's economic growth was 8.3%, or the fastest in the European Union. Employment increased and unemployment declined rapidly. In the second half of the year, real wages began to grow for a long time. One of the reasons for the good collection of taxes was the positive impact of the changeover on the Estonian economy. The euro gave confidence to investors, foreign investment increased employment and increased export volumes. The country's consolidated annual report has been prepared on the basis of reporting by all public entities. It consists of an annual report and a country's accounts report and contains financial information about local governments and the general government and the public sector as a whole. The revenue from the state budget was EUR 5.9 billion in 2011, an increase of EUR 279 million compared to 2010. Expenditure was €6.2 billion per year, or 99.5% of planned expenditure, which is 567 million more than in the previous year. The biggest costs were social benefits of € 2.48 billion. Costs increased by 10% compared to last year. This was mainly due to the disbursement of emission allowances funds, the partial restoration of mandatory funded pension payments and the better use of external funds. According to the Ministry of Finance, accounting in the country has certainly improved well and in comparison with the previous one. This is confirmed by the fact that the National Audit Office confirmed the accuracy of the accounts report and the compliance of important economic transactions with the laws of the state budget. Now look at the assessment of the report. The National Audit Office has thoroughly analysed the report and made commendable proposals for the future. We agree that the country's annual report contains important information on the results of the state's activities and that its content and importance must be valued. This year, we have paid more attention to providing a balanced overview of the consistency between the results of government agencies and the promises made in budget making. This means that the reader of the report will now find, in addition to the objectives that have been achieved, places where, despite the resources allocated to the state budget, some activities have not been carried out or the target set has not been achieved. We agree with the National Audit Office that the analysis of achievements and especially shortcomings must be substantive. Unfortunately, a number of institutions (including the National Audit Office itself, among others) brought about a lack of money, not so much substantive problems. There's nothing we can do about it. Everyone should set their goals more accurately, according to the possibilities. When drawing up the budget, we must be realistic and make promises that can be fulfilled with the resources allocated by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu can certainly contribute to this by asking those who did not achieve the objectives to explain the new budget. It should be noted that the targets and targets set by the government authorities in 2011 were, however, largely met or were close to what was desired. The recommendations of the National Audit Office are also compared with those of the Ministry of Finance in reforming the financial management of the state. It aims to improve the quality of financial planning and to increase the possibilities for using financial statements in the country. The reform will entail a number of changes in budgeting and accounting, some of which will be implemented as early as 2013. It is planned to harmonise definitions, rules and accounting principles in budgeting and accounting. We also presented the 2013 State Budget Act in a new form, so that the budgets for the various years can be better compared and compared with the budget implementation report. A sectoral view is now attached to the budget. In order to manage financial management, harmonised accounting items and standardised economic software are gradually introduced in public authorities. We are preparing a new law on financial management in the country. It will create a fiscal framework that will help to ensure that the government budget balance requirements are met. We are preparing public authorities to draw up an accrual-based budget and set limits so that from 2016 it is possible to set accrual-based limits in addition to cash-based thresholds in the state budget. Honourable Riigikogu! The development of the country will be gradual in order to ensure that the result is considered and meaningful. In conclusion, Estonia's conservative economic policy has kept us stable despite the uncertainty surrounding the world. I believe that this direction will ensure a balanced development of the country in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U281	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur, it's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U282	What about the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U283	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi! That's it for now. I invite the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester, to be co-presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U284	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the information relating to the first reading of the draft decision 265, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2011. The Commission discussed the draft on 11 September and 8 October. As a representative of the initiator, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and State Accountant Juta Maar. On 8 October, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir attended the meeting of the Commission, who presented an overview of the National Audit Office's audit report on the state's consolidated financial report for 2011 and information on the use and preservation of state assets. I repeat the purpose of the draft act: § 37 (3) of the Accounting Act provides for the presentation of the state's annual report, with the aim of enabling the Riigikogu to carry out its control function towards the government, giving the government the opportunity to explain the activities during the accounting year and to provide the Riigikogu with the necessary information for new budgetary decisions. The summary report for the financial year 2011 shall consist of the following elements: the annual activity report, the consolidated and non-consolidated annual accounts of the State, additional information on local authorities and additional information on the public sector and government sector. The summary report is accompanied by the report of the National Audit Office. Now I am talking about some of the issues that were at issue in the Commission. The topic was forecast and reality, or actual result. This year, an increase of 3.6% was expected. The minister said 8.3% of this speaking board, if I'm not mistaken. I have seen that in the explanatory memorandum, and also in the Commission, there was talk of 7.6% of real-life growth, which is in any case more than twice as high as expected. The general government surplus is 1% of GDP, the central government is in balance, the social security funds are in surplus 0.9% and local authorities 0.1% of GDP. It should be noted that revenue from the sale of emission quotas contributed to the achievement of the surplus. There was also a review of the increase in revenue and expenditure. Revenues increased by 430 million euros, costs by 437 million euros. It could be said that the benefits and costs were proportional. Interest was expressed on the use of the revenue most received. It was asked that if additional revenue were to be received during the year, how would they be dealt with. There are two types of revenue to be divided. If there is more revenue, there is now such a view that no additional budgets will be made and the revenue will remain in reserve. However, if revenue comes from economic activities, public authorities will be able to use it without a separate additional budget. The subject was the reduction in reserves, which has also been mentioned here. Since 2008, the state's financial position has deteriorated and reserves have decreased. We were talking about possible financing and liquidity. The Commission was informed that the State had signed a loan agreement with the EIB to use EUR 550 million to hold its liquidity buffer if necessary. RMK was also in question as a profit-making state agency. There's an interest in what's going on here. We have information that RMK has a special status. Eurostat does not allow this money to be included in the government revenue because it is a commercial income. The Auditor General presented the control report on the summary report. This conversation has been through this hall today, but I will repeat a few of the key words that were discussed in the committee. Statistics, European Union law and accounting are under close scrutiny in relation to the crisis. The aim is to tighten up the rules and address issues more so that the basic principles are not out of place and there are as few exceptions and inequalities as possible. In Estonia, the organisation of all accounts in ministries, agencies and local governments has improved a lot. The Auditor General's assessment of the summary report is that the report is substantially correct, the transactions have been carried out in accordance with legislation, including the 2011 State Budget Act and the Basic Budget Act. In general, the level is good in Estonia. There has been a decent and positive work on the scale of the European Union. The reform of the centralisation of accounts is ongoing. They also brought out problems. Firstly, the difference between planning and meeting objectives. There was a so-called point that economic costs are made on investment lines and vice versa. There was also the withdrawal of the Ministry's internal audit function. The Ministry of Finance has put emphasis on the development of quality systems. It was also a question of the implementation of the development plans, of their calculation in the preparation of the budget. It was noted (also the National Audit Office did so) that there are differences here and that there is no consistency with the allocation of resources. The National Audit Office is preparing an audit of development plans. Interested in the feasibility of state investments. Here the National Audit Office stated that investment is not audited, restrictions are controlled, but effectiveness and profitability have not been assessed. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the first reading of the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 7 November. a, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 12 November. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U285	Thank you very much. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 265 amendments on 12 November at 6 p.m. First reading is complete. The item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U286	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for another presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The amendments to the 2012 budget specify the expenditure of ministries for the current year. The total revenue and expenditure of the budget does not change, so it is not an additional budget. Better than forecast revenue will reduce the government budget deficit expected this year and improve the fiscal position by reducing the deficit of local governments. According to the latest forecast by the Ministry of Finance, the government deficit is expected to be 1.2% of GDP. Now for an overview of the major changes. In total, 66 amendments were tabled by the constitutional institutions and ministries. They are mainly of a technical nature and relate to the objective of aligning costs with economic content. The major change is the second European stability mechanism for the contribution of capital. According to the decision taken by the Riigikogu on 2 October, 29.5 million euros from the reserve will be allocated to the acquisition of a participation in the ESM. This is a financing transaction that does not affect the budgetary position. Operating costs will fall to EUR 7.5 million. The savings have been achieved through organisational changes, optimisation of administration and maintenance costs. Investments will increase by EUR 7,8 million, a large part of which will be devoted to investments in a composite project for the repair of state roads. The cost of social benefits and internal security will be adjusted. As was the case last year, no new cost transferable is reflected in the legislative amendments. In this way, we will avoid creating an additional burden on the tight budget for next year. However, this certainly must not lead to unreasonable costs this year, i.e. end-of-year costs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U288	Thank you very much. Please, any questions for the waitress? Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U289	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The general government budgetary position shows that the Ministry of Finance's 2012 summer economic forecast projects the general government deficit to reach 1.2% of GDP in 2012. The main source of the deficit is the government-owned state pension insurance, the cost of which exceeds income (2% of GDP). How much is pension insurance in financial deficit? Can you tell me the approximate amount of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U290	2.2% of GDP is about EUR 350 million if I am not mistaken in my head calculations. There is, of course, no news here. The fact that we are covering the entire pension requirement with wage taxes is obviously not sensible either. We already have relatively high salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U291	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U292	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 298. This is the first reading of the Bill amending the State Budget Act 2012. The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft in its s. a meeting of 23 October and 6 November. The draft was presented by the representative of the initiators, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. With two sentences, I'm talking about the bill itself. Indeed, according to the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic may initiate a draft law amending the State Budget Act no later than two months before the end of the financial year without changing the total expenditure. Given that the state budget has been drawn up in the autumn of the previous year, it is appropriate to initiate a change in the state budget in order to meet the objectives set by the public authorities in order to adapt to the changed circumstances. There were not many questions and issues to be discussed in the Commission, but I will mark a few issues. The Commission was told that the biggest change was an ESM-related financing transaction of EUR 29,5 million. This was about increasing internal security resources. The Committee on Finance wants information on expenditure covered by state secrets. There will be a separate session between the two readings on this subject. The Commission was talking about the speed of the draft procedure. The rapid pace is due to the need to make use of these funds in this year. The draft procedure is carried out in a similar manner to the state budget procedure. The draft is planned to be adopted as a law on 5 December. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 7 November (the decision was taken by consensus), to close the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 12 November (with 6 votes for and 3 against, with 2 abstentions). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U293	Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Sven Sester! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 298 amendments on 12 November 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U294	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary in Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the amendment of the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants. Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The government proposes to extend the validity of the temporary organisation of the payment of wages relating to the average salary in Estonia and to postpone the entry into force of the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants. According to this proposal, salaries will be frozen for the fifth consecutive year for the following senior civil servants: members of the government, the Auditor General, the Chancellor of Justice, the State Secretary, Assistant Ministers, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner and judges. Until 2009, the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic Act on the salaries of state officials, according to which the salaries of senior civil servants were linked to the average wage in Estonia by a fixed coefficient. In 2009, as a result of the economic crisis, the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of wages relating to the average salary in Estonia was introduced, which, while maintaining the coefficients of the Law on the salaries of civil servants appointed by the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic, was taken as a starting point instead of the average monthly salary in the previous year, multiplied by the average salary in 2007 and 0,92. As a result, salaries of senior civil servants governed by the relevant law were cut by an average of 8%. The validity of the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of wages relating to the average salary in Estonia has been extended in the last three years and the salaries of senior civil servants have not changed at that time. Their average gross wage in 2011 was 8% lower in real terms than in 2009. The average gross wage in Estonia was 1% lower than in the same period. As a result, for example, ministers whose ratio between the salary and the average gross wage of Estonia had fallen to 4.4 Estonian average wages in 2008 according to the Law on the salaries of state officials appointed by the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic, and in 2012 it was estimated to fall to 4.2 Estonian average wages. At the end of 2009, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants was passed in order to regulate the salaries of all senior civil servants in one law and to decouple them from the Estonian average. The Law on salaries of senior civil servants provided for an annual indexation of the higher wage rate. The Act came into force only for members of the Riigikogu who, for understandable reasons, cannot change their salary. The entry into force of the Law on salaries of senior civil servants would lead to an average wage increase of 21% for this target group and an additional cost of EUR 3.3 million for the state budget. The government does not consider such an increase to be acceptable and this has not been taken into account in the 2013 budget. In the event of the adoption of the draft law, the salary of the officials of the highest civil servants will remain at the 2009 level, which is the product of the average salary in Estonia in 2007, 0,92 and the coefficient for the corresponding post. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U296	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Pep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U297	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed the proposal of the Government of the Republic at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 22 October. To sum up, we agreed to this proposal, but in this Chamber we come to the draft text, which has been amended compared to the original one. This is mainly for two reasons. First of all, there is an additional part of the text that comes in response to the wishes of the President of the Republic that his salary should not rise either. A letter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been received from the President. Secondly, on the basis of a letter from the Ministry of Finance, we introduced some technical clarifications that were overlooked during the drafting process. So the draft is now more precise, as expressed for the first reading. We have discussed the matter with Lia Lin and Cerlin Pest, both of whom are both the trustees of the Public Administration and the Public Service Department of the Ministry of Finance, precisely from the point of view that, as the Minister said, for the fifth time, these salaries will be frozen and the margins between reality and what could have been decided on the basis of the current salary of senior civil servants will be high. If we decide to stop freezing, there will be a very large increase in wages one year. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs acknowledged that this issue must be tackled and certainly must be addressed in the first half of next year, rather than waiting for the moment when the government is sending here the draft budget for 2014 and maybe making such a request again. I will not go over the content of the Minister's report, but I will say that we made the following decisions by consensus in the Commission: to send the draft as amended to the large Chamber today, to propose that the first reading be stopped and to set the deadline for tabling amendments on 8 November. a. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U298	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U299	Thank you. Can you shed some light on the debate in the committee? Indeed, freezing from year to year is understandable on the one hand, especially against the background of other very large wage demands that are in the Estonian country. But if this decision is to be postponed all the time, then at one point we will come to absurdity, and the salaries of senior officials of the state will not correspond to any reasonable level. How are we supposed to get out of this dead circle? Parliament has once expressed its will, a solution with very long debates, but it is not really being implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U300	Yeah, we didn't have any solutions for the first reading, as I admitted. It was said in the Commission that we must deal with this issue probably in the first half of next year and find a solution together. Indeed, the situation is difficult, because if this law were to be enforced also in the case of senior civil servants, it would probably mean a 37% increase in wages at the moment. How does that impress people in other disciplines? As we know, the state budget is talking about the possibility of raising wages by 4.4% next year. That's where the question arises. The Minister pointed out this comparison here, but I can repeat that when the Law on the salaries of state officials appointed by the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic was in force, for example, the minister's salary was 5.5 of Estonia's average salary. Looking at next year's budget and projections, it turns out that this ratio is now going to go to 4.2. This, of course, raises problems in hiring high-level officials, whether or not because the Chancellor's salary is directly linked to the minister's salary. After all, there are other high-ranking officials coming from there, such as the heads of offices. Either way, it's all out of proportion. There are no solutions ready today, but one has to find them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U301	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U302	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Populism is, of course, a good thing, but at a certain point, it still comes to absurdity. Perhaps you should consider, then, how can you somehow hold back the salaries of the ministries' offices or the chiefs of offices? Now it seems that the Minister will soon want to be head of RMK, because he would win a few times on the payroll. It doesn't make any sense. After all, the responsibility of the Minister cannot be compared to that of the head of office. In this way, we somehow devalue the responsibility of ministers and high-ranking civil servants, show that they do not deserve their pay, etc. This should be completed as soon as possible. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U303	Yeah, that's what I said. That's what I said. That's really what this is all about. We do not have any solutions within the framework of this draft, but they definitely need to be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U304	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U305	Thank you. I have the same questions as my colleague, Kalev Kallo. There is always a social expectation that ministers or Members will do their job for the lowest possible salary, perhaps free at all. At the same time, this law also concerns those senior civil servants whose remuneration should not be so politicised. I'm talking about judges and chancellors. It seems to me that the proportions for these very important officials have also gone a little out of place. In the Commission, did you discuss alternatives to the government proposal, for example, so that there could be a gradual change in the situation or that wages could recover in proportion to the overall increase in wage levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U306	No, we didn't discuss these alternatives. But this is a first reading and it is certainly possible, as always, to propose amendments to the draft. We in the Commission look forward to what proposals will come, and then we can discuss them. On that day, however, we asked the Minister for Justice, who was in the Commission because of another question, for an explanation of the salaries of the judges. The explanation was that, within the framework of this draft, these salaries will remain frozen, but it will be possible to review the salaries of judges during the year and then come back to the Riigikogu to change them. The conditions of employment of judges also change quite a bit as the Civil Service Act changes after the first quarter of next year and some benefits disappear. If a suitable solution is found in cooperation between the ministry and judges, it would probably be appropriate to regulate the remuneration of judges a little next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U307	Thank you very much. Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U308	Thank you. Good waitress! I fully understand the government and all the ministers why they proposed this, because there are very few issues which are even more unpleasant to discuss than the issue of their own pay. We MEPs, whose income cannot be affected by this bill in accordance with the Constitution, are free of this strain. Am I right to understand that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also prepared to discuss this issue in substance and that we basically have the choice not to be a government rubber stamp on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U309	Yes, of course Parliament is free in its decisions, but it is not the Riigikogu that limits certain things. The draft budget submitted by the Riigikogu will certainly be limited. After all, we know exactly what our chances of changing the balance there are. If we make any decisions, we definitely need to find a source of cover. That's one side of it. However, I do think that this issue needs a more thorough debate. As I said, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is ready to start next year. As far as such general perceptions are concerned, neither the protection afforded by the Constitution will free us from distress, because it creates problems when we look at the whole society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U310	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Peep Aru! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 279 amendments on 8 November 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U311	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation by the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U312	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Waste Act prepared by the Government. This draft directive transposes into Estonian law a directive of the European Union on the restriction of the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. The aim of the Directive is to contribute to the protection of human health and the environment, to the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of WEEE, as well as to the increase in the collection and recovery of waste by type. Both Estonia and other countries of the European Union must transpose this directive by 2 January next year. Most of the requirements contained in a particular directive already exist in Estonian law, but some clarification and specification is needed. The draft specifies the obligations and rights of the manufacturer, importer, authorised person and distributor of all actors in the market chain. Specify how and who must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the Directive. If, at present, the manufacturer, importer and distributor can choose how they will do so, this will no longer be possible from 2 January next year. The verification of compliance with the requirements of the Directive shall be linked to the CE marking and the obligation to make the European Union declaration of conformity. Once again, it has to be said that most electrical and electronic equipment already bears this mark, because the requirement to use it comes from other legislation within Estonia. However, in the future, both manufacturers and importers will have to include a statement of compliance with a number of specific Directives. As regards collection by type, this concerns in particular § 268, which provides for the obligation for the manufacturer to inform the user of the nearest collection points and the obligation to organise national information campaigns. The main content of the latter is the call and information for users of problem products. Waste from problem products must be collected separately from other wastes, collected separately and not disposed of as mixed municipal waste. According to the draft, from 22 July 2019 these requirements will extend to all equipment not specifically mentioned in the exclusion list. The current scope will be maintained until 2014, with the addition of medical devices and monitoring and control devices. In 2016, medical diagnostic devices will be added and in 2017 industrial monitoring and control equipment will be added. The obligation imposed on the distributor to comply with the obligations of the manufacturer shall be repealed if the manufacturer is not registered in the Register of Concerned Products. The European Commission has found this to be contrary to the requirements of the Directive. The draft recasts § 268, to which I have already referred, which lays down the obligation for producers to inform users of problem products and to organise information campaigns. We also have a proposal to raise the list of persons who are not obliged to organise national information campaigns from the Government of the Republic's regulation into the law. The mandate to the Minister for the Environment shall be specified as regards the provision of information and the setting of requirements for the content of information campaigns. According to the draft, consumer protection will be granted the rights of an out-of-court reviewer to verify the provision of information and the organisation of information campaigns. At the moment, they have the right to check, but there is no right to bring the matter to an end in the event of an infringement, i.e. a misdemeanour, and the procedure must be handed over to the Environmental Inspectorate. However, in order for things to be resolved more quickly, it is appropriate to extend the rights of the Consumer Protection Board here. According to the draft, batteries and accumulators containing lead may be placed on the market as from 2 January 2013, as the new directive will no longer prohibit them. In addition, the draft defines, amends and clarifies a number of concepts, including, as you will notice when reading the draft, the placing on the market, the role of the motor vehicle manufacturer and the concept of tyres in the context of the law. The draft amends the final transposition of the Mining Waste Treatment Directive into Estonian law. These amendments are of a purely formal and descriptive nature and do not alter the principles relating to the treatment of mining waste. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The adoption of the draft act will contribute to the separate collection and recovery of waste, which is why I would like to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U313	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U314	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft law at its meeting on Monday 22 October. The members of the Commission and the chief specialist in the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Malle Piirsoo, were present, who explained to us that the draft law amending the Waste Act is primarily necessary to bring the requirements of the Directive into our law. The transposition of the Directive sets out precisely the roles of the manufacturer, importer and distributor of electrical and electronic equipment in the chain from the manufacturer to the end user, as well as some other things. Whoever listened to the Minister's speech, he made a very thorough overview of the draft law, and he was able to get a more detailed overview of it. I will not go over everything and talk about what happened in the Committee on the Environment. In the discussions in the Committee on the Environment, the question arose that if we are planning to amend the Waste Act, what will happen to all the other issues that have arisen in the recent past in relation to the area of waste management and the discussion on this issue. In the discussions, the Commission maintained this position, which was supported by the representative of the Ministry, that this draft law concerning the introduction of the requirements of the directive into Estonian law should be dealt with at a speedy pace. Other discussions on organised waste transport and fundamental decisions on whether or not to continue on the same course are a longer issue and will be dealt with by the Commission in the near future. So the Commission's common position was to move forward at a rapid pace with this bill. There was one question about how it will be regulated to organise the information campaigns required by the draft law. The answer was that the Minister for the Environment was empowered by this law to issue a regulation laying down the content and form of information campaigns. Perhaps what happens during the information campaigns and how it should be done will be decided in the future by a ministerial regulation. After that, the Commission went to the procedural decisions. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of draft 293 be terminated (the decision was made by consensus). The next decision was to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting 293 amendments be set at 21 November. 4 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U315	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Jaanus Tamkivi. Do you want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 293 amendments on 21 November 2012 at 4 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U316	The next item is the first reading of the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U317	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is another good bill. I'll start with history. Under Article 11 (4) of the Treaty on European Union, an institution of a citizens' initiative is incorporated into the law of the European Union. On 16 February 2011, Regulation No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative was adopted. The Treaty on European Union has strengthened the Union's civil society and enhanced the democratic functioning of the Union, inter alia by providing for the right of every citizen to participate in the democratic life of the Union through the European Citizens' Initiative. According to the citizens' initiative regulation, the Member States of the European Union are obliged to ensure that the tasks necessary for carrying out the citizens' initiative in their own country are carried out. The regulation of the European Union requires that an authority is designated at national level to identify the relation of the signatory to Estonia and to verify compliance of the web-based systems with the technical requirements of the implementing regulation. Now I'm getting to the purpose of the bill. The purpose of the draft act is to identify, at national level, the government bodies which fulfil their obligations under the Citizen's Initiative Regulation and, at the same time, to establish procedural bases for this purpose. According to the draft, signatories to the citizens' initiative are identified on the basis of the population register data. The Ministry of the Interior shall be designated as the body responsible for carrying out the verification and certification of statements of support. The Data Protection Inspectorate shall be designated as the competent authority to demonstrate compliance with the online collection system and shall cooperate with the National Information Systems Authority in the verification of security requirements for the online collection system. The remaining responsibilities for organising an EU citizens' initiative are addressed to the organisers of the citizens' initiative and are already defined in the citizens' initiative regulation. That's just it. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U318	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U319	Thank you. Dear Minister, This citizens' initiative, together with its million signatures, is once again something that may seem reasonable and necessary elsewhere in Europe. But could this be needed in practice in a country the size of Estonia, where basically everyone can call their elected MP directly on the mobile phone and, in this way, make any proposal to initiate a bill or do something like this, where civil society has free access to discussions in the conference hall of the Riigikogu, for example? Is this once again the kind of thing that can be introduced elsewhere in Europe, but it does not affect our lives much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U320	Thank you. This opportunity has been created. It cannot be ruled out that at some point this has something to do with Estonia. There are certain minimum requirements. There should probably be about 4500 signatures in Estonia so that we can participate in such an initiative. I fully agree with you that in Estonia, I dare say, access to decision-makers, delegates and all decision-making processes is still exceptionally good. The ability of citizens' movements to participate in discussions or to send letters to the MPs and to contact them is, in general, very good. We don't have anyone more than a single e-mail address. So it's hard to say. I think that this may have more to do with the European Union as a whole. Such initiatives may come. We'll see about that in time. But the main thing is probably that there is an opportunity and technical regulation to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U321	Thank you very much. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This concrete initiative is part of this package, through which the European Union seeks to tackle the so-called democratic crisis. Perhaps in the context of Estonia, this particular proposal is not so topical, given the small size of our country. But given that we, too, have to some extent recently seen a democratic crisis here too, has the Ministry of Justice analysed that perhaps it would be reasonable for us to put in place a system where less than a million signatures are needed to initiate something in order to make this type of format work properly in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U323	Thank you. I understand that the questioner actually made an advertisement for the idea that expensive extraordinary elections should be held in the country, whether or not to let down the state budget and to eliminate wage increases. Well, that depends a little on the questioner's point of view and the desire to advertise in this hall, which is really free. I think that there is no need to collect enough signatures in Estonia to get access to the MPs. At least for the right-wing MPs, I dare say, very easily accessible, and they can be contacted. I hope that the Social Democrats will also make an effort and realise that there is no need to campaign to communicate with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U324	Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U325	Thank you. My second question concerns an issue that we have discussed several times among ourselves in the Committee on European Union Affairs, but since the topics of ELAK do not always reach out to the general public, I will also ask in this Chamber. This issue concerns the bottleneck relating to electronic identification in the European Union as a whole. Could Estonia serve as an example for most other countries of the European Union with this system, which we have been operating since 1999, and has recently also been very active in its use, i.e. electronic identification, digital signing? Do we have faith and hope that something similar could work as a Europe in the coming years so that we can do things without complex technical solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U326	Thank you. It depends on where we draw the bounds of complexity. But in general, there are similar solutions in other countries. We have discussed what is happening in the business field right here in this Chamber. Recently, a draft failed here, if I remember correctly, because the opposition did not support the transition to more convenient e-solutions. In those countries where digital signatures exist, there are exactly the same opportunities for data exchange with other countries. I dare say that Estonia is certainly an example. It's nothing to be ashamed of, on the contrary. Estonia has also spoken very much about working solutions. When I recently described to colleagues from other countries what our next objectives are and what questions we are facing in the area of the use of several registers, there was a great deal of interest in this. I think Estonia is a very positive example here. I believe that partly because of the small size of the country, we have had faster reforms, better quality solutions and better access to each other and more direct feedback. I think being an example is definitely a continuing trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U327	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U328	Thank you. Minister, you misunderstood my first question. I certainly did not promote the idea of an extraordinary election. But as for advertising in this Chamber, I don't think it's worth overestimating how many people are watching you here right now. My question concerned what the public is talking about very seriously, that if our Heads of State, either in Parliament or in the government, do not meet certain expectations and certain values, then people will have no chance of getting the wagon right. That is why I had the question whether the Ministry of Justice did not consider it reasonable, however, to legitimise some kind of popular initiative so that people could make their proposals that would be legally binding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U329	Thank you. Maybe I misunderstood you, so you didn't advertise the idea of an extraordinary election by rejecting wage increases. I guess it was my fault. But I would not underestimate how many people follow legislative action in the Riigikogu. There's a live broadcast, and there's gotta be somebody who's watching it. If you ask when people have this opportunity to express their opinion, we will have elections periodically and there will be assessments of the political forces, some will be supported, some will not. It has long been legalised and, in my opinion, it is a very clearly functioning system. Other mechanisms should not be underestimated. The opportunity to make proposals is much faster in Estonia than elsewhere, according to my opinion. We can, of course, create all kinds of formalised procedures. I'm not rushing to condemn any ideas you have about this, if of course you have an idea. Put it on the table, let's talk. But I dare say that at the moment, communication with decision-makers, either informally or formally, is taking place in Estonia quickly and directly. That's definitely not a problem. If there are different views of the world and Estonia would like it differently, then there is a political debate and policy making, and that is what elections are for.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U330	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister of Justice. I would like a co-presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U331	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft 276 at its regular meeting on 22 October 2012. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and officials of the same Ministry took part in the discussion of the draft. The draft has been submitted for the transposition of Regulation 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Estonian legal area. The regulation regulates the procedures for citizens' initiatives, in particular, the collection of signatures for these initiatives on the Internet. The main question is how to identify on the Internet the person who has given the specific signature. This is not a very difficult task for Estonia, as we have an ID card. However, in the Commission, we learned that this option is not particularly suitable for other countries, as most of them do not use an ID card, and this concept seems to be alien to them. However, Estonia can apply it to the verification of the signatures of its citizens, but in this case Estonia should pay for the development itself. A million signatures need to be collected in seven countries to launch the citizens' initiative. Then a random sample of signatures will be taken, controlled by the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of the population register. The main problem is the collection and control of signatures collected online. The draft refers to the requirements that such an online environment should meet. The Commission also touched on the proposal of the National Information Systems Agency to cover the costs that may arise from the organisation of a system security audit. This requirement exists in the Implementing Regulation, but it is not known whether and when an audit should be carried out as the online environment does not yet exist. The Office proposed to compensate for these costs from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. The Minister of Justice thought the proposal would make sense. Finally, the Commission decided to appoint me rapporteur for the draft and to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 7 November. There are 10 working days for the submission of amendments, which can be submitted until 21 November. The Commission proposes to conclude the first reading. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U332	Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Andrei Korobeinik. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 276 amendments on 21 November 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U333	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Chair comes from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U334	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit to you a draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, which aims to modernise the charging system, on the basis of which the fee is calculated for ships sailing to Estonian ports. The need for a change is mainly due to the fact that the costs of ensuring the safety of navigation throughout the year are not covered by the lighthouse and navigation charges collected from ships on the basis of the tariffs introduced in 1995 and adjusted in 2004. We have reached a situation in which the lighthouse and navigation fees will generate EUR 9.8 million per year for the country, while the real costs for navigation safety in 2011 were EUR 18 million. It is important to stress that expenditure is of the same magnitude in the coming years. These costs also do not include investments in anti-oil capacity to ensure navigation safety and the running costs of anti-oil vessels. For example, I would like to say that next year we must fully man the anti-oil ship General Kurvits, whose annual running costs amount to EEK 10 million or EUR 650000. During the normal winter, the cost of icebreaking accounts for about a third of the total budget for ensuring safe navigation. 2010-11. During the winter of 2008, the cost of icebreaking in Estonian waters was 5.8 million euros. In the same order of magnitude, the costs were also 2011/12. In the winter of 2006. Another important aspect is the need to modernise the charging system and make it similar in design to that used in neighbouring countries, particularly Nordic Finland and Sweden. The draft provides for a system of calculation of fees based on gross tonnage (GT). The use of such a system is common in the maritime sector, used by ports, including Estonia, and international ship registers to determine their fees. I note that the amendment is based on the document "Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011 to 2020" developed in cooperation with maritime stakeholders and approved by the Government of the Republic and discussed in the Riigikogu, whose measure 1.1 provides for a review of the current tariff policy. The draft has certainly raised a number of questions, and further consideration of the draft needs to continue the dialogue with market participants. As a whole, however, the draft is necessary and justified; it is based on a rather self-evident principle that consumers pay in order to ensure safety of navigation. The new charging scheme is structured in accordance with this principle and the amounts collected as a waterway charge correspond to the real costs incurred by the State to ensure safe navigation throughout the year. The bill converts the current lighthouse and navigation charges into a single waterway charge. The combination of the two charges will simplify the current system and reduce the administrative burden associated with the calculation of the charges. The model for calculating the fee shall be based on the gross tonnage of the vessel. The basic price shall be EUR 35 cents per gross tonnage per vessel. Marine cruise ships, or, in popular terms, cruise ships, receive a discount and pay 20 euro cents, or 57% of the basic price. The same is true in the current law. As cruise ships are generally without a reinforced ice class and go to Estonian ports in the summer, they do not need to use the icebreaking service. The draft law sets a threshold above which a ship does not have to pay a higher fee. Its aim is to avoid situations where the water fee paid by very large ships would be extremely high. Oil tankers have this threshold of EUR 40000. The limit is based on the higher environmental risk posed by tankers. In comparison, in Finland, the limit on the fee paid by a tanker is EUR 107750, which is almost three times as high as our limit. Ships coming to Estonian ports several times during the calendar year will also receive benefits. For example, in the case of cargo ships, 15 visits are taxed during the calendar year, not more. This will encourage interest in the emergence of regular services. In the case of passenger ships, the benefit is linked to the requirement of 60 visits. Ice class ships are subject to lower prices. The price of the gross tonnage unit of the vessel with the strongest ice class is 28 euro cents, i.e. 80% of the original base price. Ice class ships require much less icebreaker help than ice class ships. Thus, the State's costs for winter navigation related to the movement of these vessels are lower. However, it is not excluded that they may also need an icebreaking service. Ships to ports which are not served by icebreakers receive a 30% lower rate, as the cost of icebreaking accounts for about one third of the year-round navigation costs. As already mentioned, the cost of icebreaking accounts for a large part of the overall cost of navigation safety. At the same time, icebreaking is related to maritime safety and has a direct impact on the Estonian economy. As a result, icebreaking has been declared a vital service by the Emergency Act. In Estonia's icebreaking development plan, the limitation of the icebreaking resource reduces the attractiveness of Estonian ports and transit channels, additional costs may be incurred by economic operators in the form of fines and this may facilitate the movement of goods to ports in neighbouring countries. The solution to this problem has been sought for years. The bill provides funding for icebreaking, which adds certainty to the cargo and ship owners that Estonian ports operate throughout the year and therefore our trade turnover is sufficient and the ports are internationally competitive. However, this service also requires a greater financial contribution from the maritime sector. Finally, I would point out that the draft relates to the pending 2013 state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U335	Thank you. Minister, you have many questions. Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The terminal of bulk materials at the Port of Tallinn, which processes two million tonnes of fertilisers per year, has made it clear in its letter that if new charges are imposed, the goods will go to the port of Ust-Luga, St Petersburg, Murmanski, Kotka, Riga and Klaipeda. In this case, what do you think will happen to the economic results of the Port of Tallinn and Estonian Railways?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U337	Thank you. I certainly do not share the view that goods are going to other ports because of this change. We have analysed very thoroughly the impact of the tariff on the competitiveness of the transit chain passing through Estonia. We know that point A may be a little closer to Estonia, but also a little further away from Estonia, as well as point B may be a port in Rotterdam or a port even further away. Transport costs incurred in Estonia account for 3% of all transport costs incurred in transporting goods from point A to point B. Of this 3% very small part are the charges in question. In other words, if we are saying something about competitiveness, we must look at competitiveness as a whole. As I said in my report, the proportions for ships sailing to port are... [[The bell.]] Is it over?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U338	Thank you. The proportions are clearly in favour of the services provided by the State. I think that the question of the competitiveness of the transport sector and the reliability of the transport corridor is actually linked to safe waterways and high-quality services. That is the immediate purpose of this amendment. Yeah, that fee's gonna go up. However, having personally spoken with most of the port owners affected, I dare say that if we did not have this certainty, we would not dare come before you with such a proposal. This may mean (and this is a very reasonable practice) that as a result of this change the ports, including the state-owned Port of Tallinn, must be ready to react to the competitive situation. I also know that the Port of Tallinn and some other ports certainly mean this. However, the result that we will achieve with this draft is reliable long-term funding in order to ensure that all services in Estonia are guaranteed at a good level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U339	No. There is too much noise in the hall that both you and your listeners are disturbed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U340	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U341	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that, in the case of a one-off visit, the increase in tariffs is two to six times, but in some cases it is actually eight times. If the current ceiling is at EUR 4600, then the new ceiling is at EUR 40000. But what I wanted to ask is this: are you sure or can you give us some assurance that such a tariff increase will not deter ships from our ports, that our competitiveness in the maritime sector will not deteriorate, and that instead of the expected benefits, we will not be harmed? When ships pass by, we get nothing at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U342	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U343	I think that this bill strengthens the competitiveness of our maritime sector, but also, more broadly, of the transit corridor. Yes, the transition may always be difficult, but quite quickly this bill should significantly increase the quality of our transport corridor. We'll lose 20 years of unsolved problem. Having looked closely at the structure of the fees charged by both the Port of Tallinn and several other ports and the simple comparison with the charges charged by other ports, I think that our companies have sufficient space, if necessary, to react if necessary, in order not to undermine the competitiveness of the corridor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. According to the current law, ships with a reinforced ice class (1A super) pay a navigation fee of 50% of the fee. The draft proposal, which we are talking about at the moment, provides for a waterway charge of EUR 28 per cent per unit. It's 80% compared to a ship without an ice class. Don't you think that's unfair? A ship with a reinforced ice class almost does not use icebreaker services and instead helps to keep the iced tea open.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U345	I think there are places in this bill where the issue of injustice or balance can be discussed. Similarly, questions have been asked about the coefficient of regularity of some passenger ships. It has been asked whether we should grant any advantages to ships flying the flag of the European Union. Different things have been asked. It is also how we can actually make a fair distinction between ships that directly need icebreaking services and ports that do not use icebreaking services. Various proposals may be discussed if they are fair to the sector as a whole. I was just referring to the Nordic model. Solidarity is essential for the management of waterways and the organisation of various services. It is very difficult to find final justice so that every ship, using something, can receive a price tag linked to direct costs. I think that this kind of justice is very difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U346	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U347	Thank you. Dear Minister, More stringent requirements on sulphur content of marine fuel are known to enter into force from 2015 for ships sailing in the Western and North Seas. This increases transport costs by up to half depending on the type of goods, according to different estimates. For example, Finland estimates that their country's exports and imports will increase by 800 million euros. One measure considered to mitigate the cost increase is the abolition of navigation charges. However, when adopting this bill as a law, we are doing the opposite. In this context, how will the rise in the fee affect Estonian maritime transport in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U348	Thank you. In view of the order of magnitude that you referred to in the example of Finland, EUR 800 million, it must be said that the total fee for water is a small amount of the so-called turnover associated with transport in the Baltic Sea. In the case of Estonia, this is a special drop. The claim that Finland intends to waive navigation charges comes as a complete surprise to me. I don't believe it. That's the kind of information I've heard for the first time. These are different things. We can say that, in this draft, as in the case of the strengthening of sulphur content requirements, the environmental safety and safety of the Baltic Sea in general are actually at issue. This is a draft we are doing for nothing other than to ensure that a proper navigation service is provided, so that we can be responsible for navigation safety and ensure that the icebreaking service and oil control capabilities are ensured. These are very big things. In these cases, we often find ourselves in an awkward situation in front of our partner countries. There is no way to finance it from other budget revenues. If there are such proposals, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I would be the first to listen to these proposals and not offer you this draft. But I know (I have studied it from my predecessors) why these many functions have not been realised. It has been going on for 20 years without finding a channel of funding. I have a lot of informative material, we have also shared it with the Committee on Economic Affairs, which helps to understand the significant difference between the Nordic countries and our country in how to manage our waterways at an acceptable level (I would not say high-level). This bill takes a small step along this road.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U349	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U350	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question concerns the same subject that Kalev Lillo asked about, but I am asking about another area. As the number of visiting days for passenger ships, your report included 60. Why is this number so great? It's at least half that now. Isn't there the same risks Lillo asked about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U351	Again, the same thing that any number can be called into question. But we've analyzed the relative concept of regularity. We are interested in ensuring a certain degree of regularity for both merchant ships and passenger ships. Regularity certainly has a certain link to safety and perhaps lower costs for navigation services. In view of the intensive passenger ship traffic in the Baltic Sea, in the case of a passenger ship, there are 60 trips to the sea, we are talking about regular services, we are not talking about 'cruise ships', in my opinion, a minimum level of regularity, also with regard to seasonality and the density of journeys. As far as I know, all ships operating regular routes to Estonian ports exceed its regularity. It should be like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U352	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U353	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Of course, you can talk in general and this may also be correct when presenting the draft, but some of the draft points are very specific. I have one concrete example. For example, the Tallink motor vessel Baltic Queen, which has an ice class of 1A super, will pay a lighthouse fee of EUR 459788 this year. If we adopt this draft as a law this year, the same motor vessel will pay a fee of EUR 821772 next year. The slope is 78.7%. Here's the question: is it bankrupting or what kind of development?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U354	Thank you. In view of the change in regularity, there is a significant reduction in the fee for Tallink on ships that travel on the Tallinn route, the increase is on ships that travel on the Stockholm route. That's one. As a comment, the biggest drawback of the current system is that this small navigation fee we collect from passenger ships. Most of this fee, I dare say, maybe 60%, comes from passenger and cruise ships. It's completely unsubstantiated. When we discuss here the fees for merchant ships and large oil tankers, the service we offer is extremely cheap for them and its growth, again compared to the costs of the entire transit chain, is very small. It all depends on what percentage we base on. Secondly, I think that the issue of passenger ships on the Stockholm route in Tallinn could certainly be discussed between the first and second readings. However, I drew attention to port charges and, at all, to the responsiveness of ports as companies in the market situation. I know that the annual increase in port charges is a very common practice with the rise in the consumer price index. I'm not criticizing it at all. If the Port of Tallinn would do a similar increase next year, for Tallink this small adjustment of the port fee based on the consumer price index would amount to a significantly higher amount, I think three, but perhaps three and a half times the increase in the total amount of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U355	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U356	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. My question, too, concerns the effects of this possible change. Why has the draft law been drafted only on the basis of the mathematical calculation of direct costs, in my opinion ignoring the most important one? This is also the most important thing that has not been mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. This concerns the loss of competitiveness of ports and, therefore, the decreasing flow of goods and services and, consequently, lower tax receipts into the state budget. Can you tell me the magnitude of what these effects might be and why they are not listed in the explanatory memorandum? The explanatory memorandum merely mentions that the administrative burden of the Maritime Administration will be reduced, because instead of two taxes they will have to calculate one. This is not, in my view, a very important impact on this draft. The questions I have mentioned are far more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U357	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U358	Thank you. As I said, the competitive position of our ports, including our corridor, is not a static phenomenon. It would have a much worse impact on the competitiveness of our ports if, in one of the coldest winters, the Estonian transport corridor ceased to function. Remember a few weeks ago, a big oil tanker drove off the ground near Aegna. Luckily, the accident ended happily. This impact is much worse than these amounts and given the need for the whole sector to maintain its competitive position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U359	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You confirm in all your answers that there is no threat to the transport corridor. However, the draft and the explanatory memorandum do not find that the impact of these steep increases on trade flows and the possibility that freight and ship owners will find other ports that are cheaper could be thoroughly analysed. Such sharp increases imply that the impact on trade flows in port and the consequent impact on rail will first be examined. Why has there been no in-depth analysis and why has this draft been "over-the-counter"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U360	Thank you. I would remind you, Mr Kallo, that even when we discussed maritime policy with representatives of very different circles, these analyses were carried out. The criticism that there is little analysis and that what you think is clearly visible is always correct. I have tried to explain to you that this analysis that we have done and the possible positive impact of this draft is greater than the negative impact that you are currently stressing. Yes, it may mean corrective decisions, but I think we need to see the public interest in what we are achieving with this draft. That's all that matters. I understand this sector, I communicate with these people relatively often on many issues. Imagine an operator calling on a cold winter night who has helped you prepare these questions and it turns out that the independent Republic of Estonia does not have the capacity to break the ice. No! What does this mean for our transport corridor and its credibility? This is quite something other than what we are proposing today to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U361	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand the explanatory memorandum to the bill that the current system of charges is a little out of place. National charges, which include a pilot fee in addition to lighthouse and navigation charges, represent a small part but a disproportionately large part of the port fee. To solve this, you offer an increase in the national fee, which can make our ports' total tax much higher than our neighbours. You have just said so nicely during the discussion that attention must be paid to the readiness of ports to react promptly in a competitive situation. Could this mean that, as a general meeting of the Port of Tallinn of AS, you are ordering the extremely high port fees to be lowered when things get out of hand because it is necessary to establish proportions and maintain competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U363	Thank you. That introductory remark was, in my opinion, perfectly correct. Yes, this proportion is completely different from Finland and Sweden. I did not find it in my papers at the moment, and I cannot say the exact number of ports along the Gulf of Finland compared. However, if our national waterway charge (using this new expression rather than the lighthouse, navigation and ice breaking fee) is 5% of the total port call fee, then in Finland the national fee is 60%. That's the proportion. I believe that we have all been to Finland and seen the service developed there. However, we do not propose a change in proportions. We will make a minimal change to resolve a few important issues in the service of our maritime routes. But now I've forgotten the question. I'm sorry! I'm still answering. We have discussed this with the management of the Port of Tallinn and the management of the port is very cooperative on this issue. Why don't you ask me what we've financed so far with the minimum ice breaking capacity we need. We have done so from the Tallinn Harbour dividend. But the service is used by all ports that need it: Sillamäe, Kunda, other ports, depending on the ice conditions. This is unfair to the Port of Tallinn. If we share this commitment more evenly, the Port of Tallinn will also be able to compete more equally among other ports. The Port of Tallinn will certainly have the opportunity to react flexibly if necessary in order to maintain its competitive position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U364	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U365	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is known that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu have been approached by a few dozen logistics companies who have expressed concerns about the fact that this sharp increase in tariffs was announced so shortly in advance. Perhaps it would make sense to report this at least one year before the increase, i.e. to put these new tariffs into effect from 1 January 2014. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U366	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U367	That is a serious remark when we look at the legal side. On the substantive side, it can be said that if we go back in history, the adjustment of fees towards Nordic fees has been discussed on an ongoing basis. There are conceptual documents since 2005 and 2006 (I am referring here to maritime policy). We have discussed this with the maritime sector this spring. By the way, a large number of sector comments on the preliminary draft of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been taken into account and corrective actions have been made. As I said, this dialogue should certainly continue between the first reading and the second reading. However, I do not regard the enforcement of the law as a good proposal from 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U368	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! Cruise shipping companies such as Holland America Line and Cruise Baltic, as well as the European Cruise Council, have expressed their deep concern about the unexpected and unreasonablely steep rise in the price of water. If new charges are introduced, Tallinn will be considered as the destination of the visit. In this case, how do you envisage receiving an additional EUR 10 million? Are you going to raise your fees again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U369	We've been in close contact with cruise ship operators. This threat of abandoning Tallinn cannot in any way respond to reality. I think that there are also proposals on the table for cruise ships that take into account possible effects. I referred to the rate of inflation of the port fee and other things that cruise companies take into account either way and that can actually be adjusted. Cruise ship operators have offered certain adjustments in relation to the regularity fee and some other matters. I think it is certainly possible to achieve a satisfactory solution here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U370	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U371	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with Mr Toom's question in the wind. If we now deal with this draft at a relatively good pace, and perhaps at Christmas this law will be announced and will immediately apply from the new year, will we not harm businesses and how will it be in line with good legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U372	Thank you. This was also seriously discussed during the budgetary discussions of the Cabinet. I think we need to take into account the link between this draft and the state budget. If this hall finds suitable proposals for revenue, of course, in cooperation with the government's responsible ministers, it would certainly be worth seriously considering a three-month postponement. In that case, I think this legitimate subject of expectation is certainly adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U373	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U374	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Does and to what extent the planned fee for waterways increase or affect the cost of the journey of the ferry connecting to the Estonian islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U375	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U376	Thank you. Not in the direction of the ferry connection getting worse. The ferry connection should be improved. That is one of our suggestions. I'm just taking the chance now. I have not been able to answer your questions in the sense that it is still not our desire to fill the budget holes, but in addition... [[Outside the Riigikogu hall there is a banging.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U377	Honourable Minister and good fellows! Let's stay calm and keep going. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U378	That also applies to you, Mr President-in-Office. In fact, we hope to tighten the ferry schedule for both Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. It's a constant subject. In that sense, it certainly should not get worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U379	Thank you. Dear Minister, Your answer to me is that the decision has been made and that the icebreaker can only be purchased through the state budget. However, the Committee on Economic Affairs visited the BLRT Group a few months ago and there we were very clearly told that three or four years ago their offer to build and purchase an icebreaker was on the table. They tried to do it multifunctionally, i.e. in the summer they could have used this ship somewhere at latitudes north. According to these calculations, this ship would have paid off in three or four years. But the real question is that if we build this new icebreaker, which is supposedly going to cost about 100 million euros, and Tarmo, who is 50 years old, stops, will this new icebreaker be enough for us in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U380	Thank you. As far as the costs I have referred to are concerned, we have also deducted investments from these costs. We are generally saying that the waterway charge should cover the running costs associated with the management of waterways and the provision of navigation services, we do not even dream of investments. These costs include the existence of icebreaking capacity. You have certainly seen from the news that the Maritime Administration managed to conclude a long-term agreement to achieve the capacity of icebreaking in the Gulf of Finland over a long period of time. The ten-year contract is subject to the money of the ice-breaking capacity that the 2013 state budget provides for. However, it is true that this long-term agreement and Tarmo are not enough for us in the long term. I think we need another icebreaker for the Gulf of Finland. One of the reasons for this draft is that it is precisely a long-term agreement that should be achieved. It should not be as it has been so far that, next to the icebreaker Tarmo, we have received or not, depending on the market situation, and prices have sometimes been very high. We have essentially covered this cost from the Tallinn Port dividend, which is not correct, let us be honest. But we have done so that our maritime sector can sleep peacefully at night. Even in winter, especially in cold winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U381	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U382	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In your answers you have repeatedly said that the use of the Tallinn Port dividend is not correct. Only the dividend comes because the ships are moving and navigation is guaranteed. From private ports, taxes come to the state and goods move, people get jobs and taxes come again. So, in fact, because navigation works, the revenue of the state is considerably higher than the unfortunate 10 million navigation charges that you are trying to obtain in any case. The navigation fee would cover the costs of icebreaking and any other revenue would be net revenue, which I do not think is quite fair either. Why don't you think that navigation makes the country's economic life much more active? There's a tax revenue coming from private ports. It is not quite right that the dividend of the Port of Tallinn is not right to use. I'm sure it's the right thing to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U383	Thank you. I don't think, by the way, the way you thought I was. I do not think that the economic success of our transport sector could only remain within the sector. We also need to finance other public commitments, as is the case with any other company. I have not expressed the opinion you said. However, note that the Waterway Charge is not a tax in good practice for the organisation of waterways, but a fee that is linked to a certain extent to the economic agents who consume the service most. In my opinion, it is not only right to look towards the dividend of the Port of Tallinn and to think that they should finance this public service. We've got a lot of ports. If we had one port, we could also afford some of our southern neighbours' practices, where the port actually provides a very large part of the national navigation service. Our real situation is different. Ports are commercially organised and we must treat them equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U384	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U385	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Minister! We all know that your administration is very large and wide, apart from waterways, it includes other transport, including railways, etc. Does the draft law under consideration affect rail transport as well? I mean precisely that the volume of Estonian Railways has decreased, if you believe in the press, to about a quarter of its capacity. It is claimed that if transport capacity continues to decrease, Estonian Railways may face financial problems. As a result of the draft legislation under consideration, it may not be the case that the State receives additional revenues from the increase in the water fare, but that the volume of goods will be reduced and could result in a much greater reduction in the revenue on the railways? Or am I too pessimistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U386	I think you're too pessimistic. If I continue your thinking, I can say that if there were no kilograms of goods on the Estonian Railway, he would, of course, be in financial difficulty. But we are taking this step to improve the long-term sustainability and credibility of our transport corridor. We will see that if goods move through rail and port, the whole transport chain will be competitive in a broad sense. I told you in advance how much of the cost of the entire transport chain this charge represents. In other words, it is not ports or operators who pay this fee, it is those whose goods are on board. They have a choice here, of course. If we look at the current competitiveness of the transport sector, nakedly, the question arises as to why so many goods are moving through Finland, where transport costs per ton are much higher. Because the services there are good, reliable and reliable. It is also, in a sense, the choice of how we classify ourselves in this market. This is certainly not easy, because we need to put more emphasis on the reliability, quality, transparency of our services, on the good environment, not just on the public services that we receive free of charge. This last one is not very sustainable, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U387	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U388	Thank you. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, In answering a number of previous questions, you said that this decision must be made quickly, because the revenue from it has already been included in the budget for next year. Several questions have touched on the dividend of the Port of Tallinn. My question concerns the budget for next year. Namely, your colleague, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi refused to say at first reading how much the dividend will be withdrawn from the Port of Tallinn next year. Would you tell us that? All the more reason you're putting it to heart that this decision can be reviewed in case they find a cover somewhere else. How much dividend will be withdrawn from the Port of Tallinn next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U389	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U390	I am sure to say this, but the forecasts of the various dividends by company should certainly be available to you as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If you don't have them, I'll make sure you get them. I don't want to make a head count because I have hundreds and thousands of bills in my head, I could just be wrong, and that wrong number could fly. As usual, we predict dividends on the basis of forecasts of companies' economic performance and taking into account the investment needs of companies. In this sense, the forecast of the Tallinn Port dividend is certainly relatively real, given what is currently happening in this sector. But a more accurate number will come in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U391	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm sorry to have to repeat my question, but I didn't get an answer before. My question went on, Mr Lillo, but also then I did not hear the answer. I asked whether it might be possible to impose higher charges a year later. You replied that the question is justified in every way, even legally justified, you have discussed it, but do not consider it reasonable. But why don't you think it's reasonable, it's kind of missed. I'm asking you, why don't you think it's reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U392	Thank you. You asked whether this draft could be enforced as a law from 1 January 2014, but Kalev Lillo asked whether the draft could be enforced a few months later by the proposed 1 January, with the justification precisely linked to possible legal risks. Possible legal risks must certainly be addressed once more. If these risks are serious, I think that solutions must be found so that these risks do not exist. Otherwise, we'd make a mistake. That was my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U393	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U394	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I believe that you also understand that a lot of questions today are caused by the fact that it is difficult from the point of view of the legislator to accept this principle, that it must be done very quickly and suddenly so high in price increases. As a person, I call on you first and foremost to take the position of entrepreneur, because entrepreneurs rely on you as Minister for Economic Affairs. This fee is not a direct state tax, but it is a burden imposed by the State. Aren't you afraid that, with such increases, we will not question the credibility of the state for businesses? It's done like with your hands, who you've actually been a very reasonable minister. Maybe it would have been wise to do it in a couple of, like, three years or something? After all, price increases of several hundred percent are pretty bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U395	Thank you for that compliment. Indeed, I would never submit this draft if it were not beneficial to our economic environment. But he is. I would be most happy to find solutions for how to do this, as you say, timelessly. It makes me a little bit more confident maybe that I've been talking to some very serious players in this sector. They understand that we have to look at proportions. Using percentages, we need to look at what these percentages are calculated from and what this sector actually gets in return. If the sector can counter the fact that the icebreaking capacity in the Gulf of Finland is reliably organised, I think it is a very big deal for this sector. This has been said to me by a number of people in very important ports. If we find any softer solutions between two readings, I certainly welcome them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U396	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U397	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I did not get a specific answer to my first question. Please, let's try again! If the draft explanatory memorandum states that there is no or no significant increase in prices for ships engaged in regular voyages, which category does the ferry in contact with our islands belong to? Is there no price increase or is it not significant?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U398	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U399	You asked the first question about the impact on the Community with the islands. This bill has no effect on this in the sense that the ticket should be more expensive. As a reason for the increase in the price of the ticket, I referred to other circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U400	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! The maritime sector and the maritime sector bring us tourists and, through this, also money into the state budget. In the case of aviation, the State is willing to make losses, but not in the case of maritime transport. I ask: why are they treated so differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U401	Thank you. We are not willing to make losses in aviation. No, it's not! The fact that there will be losses may be simply a state of play because of different circumstances, but we are certainly not willing to bear losses in aviation either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U402	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U403	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In Latvia and Lithuania, navigation charges are currently lower than in Estonia. At the same time, you have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that the price difference for current prices is significant, but at the same time you have critically argued that it has come at the expense of the lack of navigational signs, i.e. security. Will the good work of our ports in guaranteeing navigation safety also be reflected in the revenue of the state compared to Latvia and Lithuania?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U404	We do not have any immediate opposition to this specific nuance, so that we can show what role the ports play in putting navigation signs and comparing the work of the Latvian and Lithuanian ports. If we look at the volume of navigation services, I think it is important here to look at our maritime territory, which is nearly four times larger than Latvia, for example. This will inevitably have an impact on navigation, surveying of waterways, hydrographic works, the installation of physical seamarks, etc. Yeah, these costs are different. In addition, Latvia and Lithuania must take into account to a certain extent the specificity of the structure of their ports. The icebreaking service which Latvian and Lithuanian ports need little, because it is not so topical for them, given their location, is the responsibility of the ports, in fact the responsibility of the port. There is the same situation that we had in the 1990s when we were dealing with one port, at least legally.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U405	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U406	Thank you. In order to increase mutual understanding, it would probably be necessary to make the question even shorter: does this draft have no impact on ferry connections with the islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U407	I'm sure it'll have an effect, too, of course. But we have to look at those rates again. I would point out that most ships serving islands are ice-class ships. If you are asking for exactly the cost price, we should review once more the price of the gross tonnage unit in accordance with this new table. But this fee is much lower on ships serving Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, given their ice class and, as I was saying here, that in ports which are not served with icebreaking services, this fee is much lower. These odds are pretty significant. The port of Kuivastu, Virtsu, Rohuküla and Heltermaa is not served with icebreaking services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U408	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U409	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue on the issues of the nearest countries. If we look at Latvia and Lithuania's navigation charges, they will be lower before this price increase and the new price list. If we also bring in nearby ports in Russia, it turns out that we are in a rather poor competitive situation, which is why we do not have much competition here. Aren't you afraid that this bill will put our logistics cluster at a pretty high risk of falling out of competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U410	Thank you. You're actually pointing it out right. If we look at the various groups of goods and ships that use our ports, we will see that the existing port call charges are significantly higher than in the ports of the countries you refer to. Experts say that our ports and transport services are used for reasons other than relatively marginal savings from all transport costs, when the goods are sent from destination A, whether they are Kazakhstan or some other place, to destination B.This percentage is just so small. If we look at this one cost, we can see that this is actually quite small in all of this transport solution. As I said, 3% is actually the transport cost that arises on average in Estonia, in some cases 4% can also be said. Not all of these data are public, but many of them are business secrets. We're actually talking about that percentage. Comparing this percentage may not give you anything. If we take as a basis that the goods move on the basis of this tariff alone, then the harbours of Tallinn and Sillamäe should be completely empty of the goods. But that is not the case. There are quite other reasons why our freight capacity is falling. But that's another subject. There are quite other reasons why one group of goods is decreasing, why coal moves more through Riga, why more goods are administratively directed to the ports of the Leningrad region, etc. There's a whole other reason. The part of the tariff is relatively small there. At the same time, I understand the concerns of the companies involved. Who likes to pay more? No one. But we say with full responsibility that we have to solve fundamental service problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U411	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U412	Thank you. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, My question concerns history. In fact, 20 years ago Estonia joined a number of conventions. In 1992 we also joined the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and undertook certain obligations. It is claimed that this decision does not take into account the commitments made here, as the reduced overall capacity of two-hull tankers is no longer taken into account in the calculation of the remuneration. How will international commitments made over time be viewed when such decisions are issued? Did you notice that and why it wasn't important?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U413	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U414	Somehow I was waiting for that question. I have already seen that the questions will end, but this question has not come to an end. You see, the distinction between single-hull and double-hull tankers is no longer very topical; the situation in the Baltic Sea has just changed. Its actual effect is no longer as significant as the reason given by that Convention. That's why we don't see any reason to make a difference here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U415	Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed this draft law on 25 October. Minister Juhan Parts, Deputy Chancellor Eero Pärgmäe of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Head of the Department of Aviation and Maritime Affairs Tarmo Ots and Director General of the Maritime Administration Andrus Maide were present. The Minister normally presented a good presentation on the objectives and content of a good draft, gave further explanations and answered questions put by the members of the Commission. Eero Pärgmäe explained that it could be difficult to enforce the draft on 1 January and could be discussed that the new date of entry into force would be 1 April 2013. The member of the Economic Commission, Kaja Kallas, expressed the same concern, which has been repeatedly discussed in this Chamber today, that the price increase is too steep and many interest groups have expressed their interest that the price increase could initially be lower, even only 15%. He also said that the sector is not actually opposed to the rise in fees, rather the problem is the too steep increase in prices. Eero Pärgmäe gave a number of examples of similar charges in Finland and Estonia, from which it could be concluded that similar fees in Finland are sometimes even several times higher. After that there was a debate where questions were actively asked. In particular, a member of the Economic Commission, Kalev Kallo, asked questions actively. He also made assessments. In his view, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not carry out sufficiently good impact analyses and did not provide specific impact calculations. To this, the Minister replied that icebreaking and anti-oil capability is crucial and it would not be reasonable to cover these rising costs in the future from the state budget. Tarmo Ots claimed that cruise ships had received very high concessions and that they would not be significantly affected by the price increase. Secondly, the quality of the icebreaking works and the service of ports were discussed. Arto Aas asked me to put in the protocol that he owned shares in the Tallink Group. Further, procedural questions were addressed. Two proposals were submitted for further processing. I proposed that the draft law amending the law on maritime safety initiated by the Government be sent to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 7 November with the proposal to terminate the first reading of the draft and set the deadline of 14 November at 17. Mr Kallo proposed that the draft be rejected at first reading. The proposals were put to the vote in the order of receipt and my proposal was supported. It was decided to send the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 7 November (by 6 members of the Commission, against 2 and no one abstained). Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of the draft (with 6 Commission members, 2 against and no abstentions). Thirdly, it was decided to set the deadline of 14 November at 5 p.m. for amendments (with 6 Commission members, 2 against and no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U416	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question may be a little out of your role as a Commission waitress. But I think you remember when some decisions were made at national level in the 1990s and transit directions changed. Estonia lost about a billion dollars, and our northern neighbour won. I fear that in a year's time, for example, transit routes may change again. For example, the Port of Ust-Luga is already much better than the ports of Estonia. How do you assess the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U418	This issue was not discussed in this form. However, if you repeat in a few words the main points of the previous speaker, this is not a compromise point. The user pays for the service. The service will improve especially in terms of icebreaking. It is very difficult to assess whether this premium has a negative impact. As you have heard, the previous speaker convincingly proved that it has a positive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U419	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U420	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. Did the Commission discuss how the cost of the voyage of the ferry connecting to the islands would be affected by the waterway charge? If you say it wasn't discussed, as a wise man, being an islander, suddenly you can guess how it might affect it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U421	It wasn't discussed. In essence, I think that this does not affect, because everything that relates to the difference between the revenues and costs of ferry traffic is, of course, paid by the State anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U422	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U423	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In the Committee on Economic Affairs, Tõnis Palts, Toomas Tõniste, a member of the Social Democrat Commission that managed a large international company, etc. I'm not talking about money. For ten years, we have not raised these charges, and now we wake up and come out with such a fierce price increase. I'm not talking about sums, I'm talking about principles. How can you, members of the Committee on Economic Affairs from an entrepreneur's background, accept that the state is distrusting the economic climate? Such decisions cause this distrust. It is not about money, it is about principle. How has Tõnis Palts changed sides at the same time as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U424	Quoting the classic who spoke earlier, why do you think I think so? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U425	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U426	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The procedure for dealing with the draft is a very bad example of inclusion. More than 20 referrals were received to the Commission and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which highlighted very deep and fundamental problems. As the Minister said at the end of his speech, certain millions of euros have been planned for next year's budget and, in order to be able to collect these millions into the budget, an accelerated procedure will be carried out in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. A few weeks ago, seven large companies came out with a statement to the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Minister Parts, where they were in a very sharp tone, bringing this bill as an example, criticized how Estonia's international competitiveness and the business environment have been damaged. I think that those in the Chamber cannot ignore this appeal, all the more so because these people know what they are talking about. For the owner of the goods, the main criterion for selecting transport corridors is the cost of transport, which is why any increase in costs, especially if this is not announced in advance and this increase is not justified by needs, undermines the competitive position of ports, and the effect of changing the remuneration may be the opposite of what is desired. The maritime policy was recalled today. It must be said that the introduction of a waterway charge runs counter to the newly approved maritime policy development plan, which sets the objective of increasing trade flows through ports and related revenue increases and provides for measures to achieve these objectives. The introduction of a new waterway charge will contribute to achieving the opposite of these objectives. It is a fact that, in the context of today's extremely sharp competition, the market for international transit services is saturated with offers and therefore highly sensitive. Every detail, especially price formation, has a huge impact. The owners of the goods always choose the most beneficial route for transporting their goods. Therefore, each port and terminal must at all times prove what constitutes the advantage of using its services and in which case it may be useful to the owner of the goods. On this basis, there is no justification for a high level of remuneration or tax for one or the other and for an unexpected rise, apart from everything else. A few more points. Any change to the shipping charges must be published at least. I repeat: at least one year earlier. The situation in which we have a draft on the table today, which should introduce new charges from 1 January 2013, goes completely against it. I am pleased that those in the Chamber also pointed out this with their questions. This does not go hand in hand with good legislative practice! As terminals are currently negotiating with the owners of goods to secure trade flows in the coming years, the decision to change the fee exponentially means a very strong economic setback for the Estonian transport sector. I'm gonna need a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U427	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U428	Before any decision is taken to change shipping charges, a thorough and comprehensive analysis must be carried out to find alternative solutions enabling the objectives to be achieved, the development of one of Estonia's most successful and sustainable sectors will not be jeopardised. Strategic issues relating to the organisation of icebreaking must also be analysed before decisions are taken. Do you want to buy or rent an icebreaker and if you rent it, what time? Who is the buyer or renter and how would it be optimal to provide icebreaking services? As I referred to earlier in my question, the BLRT Group made its offer a few years ago. This offer, I understand, has not been accepted. Perhaps this is an opportunity that the Ministry of Economic Affairs could consider in the future. I dare say that today's debate, too, did not provide sufficient assurance that we are doing the right thing in this Chamber by adopting this bill as a law. I dare say the Minister's answers didn't convince me. Taking all this together, one single suggestion can be made: since the draft will cause serious damage to the Estonian investment climate and the business environment, the Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U429	Please ask Kalev Kallo, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U430	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The 283 bill is a bright and, unfortunately, increasingly frequent example of government action to influence or change the economic environment, which can only be compared with the delivery of a crazed elephant in a porcelain shop. A slight change in the structure of maritime charges, which means replacing the lighthouse and navigation charges collected separately so far with a single fee, i.e. a waterway charge, has been included in this draft with a huge increase in fees. For some groups of vessels, the fee increase is up to six times higher. As has already been the case with the government, the remuneration is set at very short notice and without consulting market participants. The procedure for handling the bill will be terminated by the end of November and the new fees will apply from 1 January 2013. Six times the increase in fees will be passed by law one month before the law enters into force. To express its misunderstanding and protest against the planned step of the Estonian Government, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Committee of Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu have approached nearly 20 companies operating in the logistics cluster and their umbrella organisations. Among them are the Estonian Shipowners' Association, the Estonian Ports' Association, the European Cruise Council in Brussels, flagships of the Estonian economy such as AS Tallink Grupp, BLRT Grupp, the Port of Tallinn, etc. A serious concern has been expressed by the cruise companies Holland America Line Seattle from the USA, Cruise Baltic from Copenhagen and many other operators. Everyone has expressed frustration at the introduction of such increases at such short notice. Next year's contracts have already been concluded and the budgets have been approved, no additional charges can be imposed on customers outside the contract. It is proposed that, if the imposition of charges is extremely necessary, they could be introduced from 1 January 2014 onwards, they could be taken into account in the award of contracts and be used as a basis for the selection of ports. Several companies have referred to the possibility of replacing Estonian ports with ports in Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden etc. The current law unequivocally condemns the loss of the 25% advantage granted to ships of the Member States of the European Union, which clearly shows a bow towards flags of convenience. The government expects to receive up to an additional EUR 10 million from the sharp increase to cover the alleged increase in the cost of icebreaking. Here, the government has acted like a horse with eye flaps, which sees only an imaginary 10 million, but does not see the impact on the economy as a whole, it does not realise that, as a result of such a crazy reward, the number of ships coming to our ports will fall sharply in a few years, and only memories of the annual income of 10 million can be written in future. The trade flows will disappear, and this in turn means that 40 million euros of the dividend taken out of AS Tallinn to cover the revenue side of the 2013 budget can only be dreamed of after a few years. By now, Estonian Railway freight transport has decreased to 12 train pairs per day. Let me remind you that once it was 40 pairs. If the volume falls below 10 train pairs per day, Estonian Railways will already be in trouble. No such impact analysis has been carried out in preparing the draft. On the side of the coalition, there have always been honourable members of the Riigikogu who have always had a deep concern about the lack of analysis of opposition drafts. Where are you now, the question arises. Think about the impact of this bill and look at its explanatory statement. During the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, held at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Minister, responding to my reply, confirmed that all the cruise companies have been negotiated and they are satisfied. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U431	Today we have heard this confirmation here too. After questioning the officials, the minister obtained confirmation that everything was fine. I don't remember or want to remember the name of the official who just lied. This is clear from the calls made by cruise companies, according to which this rise comes as a surprise to everyone, and there is no smell of satisfaction. Because of the lack of time, you can't quote them here. I can give you an example. The cruise ship Costa Pacifica, 114288 GT, visited the port of Tallinn three times during this period. He paid a total of EUR 7418 for lighthouse and navigation charges of 25 cents. On the basis of the same schedule, he would have to pay a water fee of EUR 30000 next year, i.e. an increase of 400%. I have just given this example of a cruise ship because the Minister confirmed that there are no problems with these ships. The same is true for ro-ro shipping lines and bulk goods. Mineral fertilisers are handled in Muuga port at 2 million tonnes per year. The Chairman of the Terminal Management Board assumes in his letter that after the introduction of new charges, the goods will go to the port of Ust-Luga, St Petersburg, Kotka, Murmanski, Riga and Klaipeda. All this should have been thoroughly analysed in advance, which has unfortunately not been done. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not wish to participate in the abrupt deterioration of the Estonian economic environment and proposes not to terminate the first reading of the draft and to vote the draft out of the procedure. I hope that all members of the Marine Support Group of the Riigikogu will join our proposal, because otherwise they will support not the maritime sector, but something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U432	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-07_U433	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. At the same time, two groups have had to reject draft 283 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting against the proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft 283 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu, against 40, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 283 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 283 amendments on 14 November at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 20:28 p.m.
