ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 7th working week. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 7 November, the following members of the Government will take part in Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister Kristen Michal, Minister for Justice, and Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 67 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there is no 34.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U2	The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Estonian Centre Party to the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U3	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to introduce to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic that the Government of the Republic propose that, in order to carry out the tasks of the Eastern Prefecture properly and to ensure public order in the region, the Government initiate a legislative amendment to reduce the language proficiency requirements of assistant police officers from level C1 to level B1. Here's the pretext of the bill. I'm sure you remember that sad story when a little girl was kidnapped in Narva and, after a while, they found her body. The killer hasn't been found yet. There was a big discussion on how this could have been prevented. This revealed that 19 police officers were vacant in Narva alone. 19 auxiliary policemen who could have been patrolling and moving around the city could have avoided this tragic incident. But it didn't happen. In the spring of this year, the Narva Council sent a total of four letters to all the political groups of the Riigikogu, proposing to lower the language proficiency requirements for assistant police officers. I want to introduce you to the language skills of the person who speaks the language at level C1. The Common European Framework of Reference for Languages states as follows: 'Throughs long and complex texts, it also has hidden meaning. Is able to make himself spontaneous and easy to understand without particularly looking for expressions. Is able to use the language flexibly and effectively in public, learning and working conditions. Is able to create a clear, logical, detailed text on complex topics using online and coherent creative techniques. ' When you listened to me, you understood that these requirements apply more to us, a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the Government of the Republic should speak the language at this level. However, these requirements apply to an auxiliary police officer. If you are looking at the law of an assistant police officer, you will see that the requirements for an assistant police officer are this: you can call an assistant police officer 18 years old at least with upper secondary education! just an Estonian citizen who speaks Estonian at the language proficiency level prescribed for police officers and meets the professional qualifications of an assistant police officer. The professional fitness requirements are as follows: he must be capable of acting, must not be punishable for a criminal offence committed intentionally, must not be punishable for a criminal offence committed intentionally at first instance, must not be suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, must not be a drug addict, etc. The assistant police officer is more or less an assistant officer, and applying C1 to him is, of course, too much. If our proposal were approved, the Prefecture of the East alone would have the opportunity to recruit at least 31 people (as of spring) who would be involved in law enforcement and perhaps prevent many crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U4	Thank you very much. Before we go to the questions, let me make it clear that every member of the Riigikogu can only ask one question to both rapporteurs. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U5	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, By name, you are probably Russian and you have also lived in a Russian-speaking environment, but for some reason you are very good at speaking Estonian. How hard is it to learn Estonian if you know that you can get a job because of it? In time, my generation learned the Russian language quickly, in one and a half years or two. I think it's more or less equal time. When it comes to some hidden understanding, it shouldn't be a problem. At least I did in my time when I was told 'pošol... ', I knew where to go. How hard is it to learn Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U6	Thank you, dear colleague, for a very good question. I learned Estonian while living in Tartu. Before that, I didn't know a word in Estonian. We lived on the then Soviet street (it is probably Kalevi Street now), there were no Russian kindergartens in the neighborhood, and I was taken to the Estonian kindergarten when I was four years old. They put me at that table and suddenly I discovered that my mother was going to leave for the first day of my life in a nursery. I opened my mouth to scream, and then they put a salad in my mouth with an onion inside that I hated. The first word I learned in Estonian was 'onion'. The parents claim that after a month I spoke Estonian freely. This is the only reason I speak Estonian. My Estonian language has lost a great deal in recent years. It used to be much more coherent and beautiful, I'd say so. On 25 October there was a round table, ladies and gentlemen, which I introduced in the free microphone and invited everyone to participate. We looked at the experience of a kindergarten in Narva, where Russian children are taught Estonian on such a level that they will not have problems after school. We discussed this briefly today in the Special Committee on State Budget Control and we will probably continue this next week. It is very easy to acquire Estonian if it is a small child. It would be preferable for a child to be three or four years old. This language, however, is immensely difficult to learn as an adult. There are 5 to 10% monolingual, monolingual people in the population, and this percentage may even be higher. The Estonian language is actually quite difficult to learn. If you were interested in this question, I would point out that for about 15 years, the language is not studied in Estonia, but is prepared for tests and tests. There is also a very big problem, which is why very many language teachers who worked with me at the Narva Language Centre in the 1990s no longer want to teach. One thing is human communication, the language that is needed for communication, but another thing is a proficiency test to prove that you can meet the requirements of language proficiency level B2 or C1. I hope you have an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U7	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U8	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I want to know your opinion: how justified are the demands that an assistant policeman should speak Estonian at C1 level?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U9	I think we're overreacting here, with a lot of effort. With the mistakes we're hearing here and what we're doing here, there's no way we can get C1. I would like to remind you of bill No 51 on the release of land under the land tax. Do you remember the form in which it came to the Riigikogu? According to memory, there were 13 grammar errors. If you wish, you will hear mistakes being made when you speak from this remote control, not just me or other non-Estonians. Mistakes are not only made by speakers from this remote control, but are made at a higher level. For example, the ma- and da-infinitive is confused. It's a pretty typical mistake. You may not notice it, but I do. Yesterday, there was a minister in the Committee on Monetary Affairs who said a sentence that I wrote: 'We have not made any turns in our priorities. ' A mistake like this would be quite questionable if he could have taken the exam at C1. So I think this C1 is really overreacting. In fact, level B1 should be perfectly suitable for people who may be auxiliary police officers. The requirements these people have to meet, I've already introduced you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U10	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You have just mentioned it in Narva kindergarten, who is very successful in dealing with language teaching methods such as immersion and where children can learn the Estonian language well. A immersion as a method is not, as far as I know, intended only for small children. At all, intensive language courses allow almost every person to learn the language in a short time. How many financial resources do you have in the police system for language learning? I don't think people want to learn language. I think they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U12	Thank you. This is where the morning of memories begins. I can tell you as a language teacher with 2600 adult students in Narva that the police have always been one of the most difficult contingents. If the language center teacher had the slightest chance of getting rid of a group that consisted of most of the police prefecture employees, he did. The money has been wasted enormously, but it has not actually been found in the right direction. You can imagine very well what a policeman might encounter in his work, in which circumstances he may need a language. But the exams that are now being carried out do not provide for this kind of language practice. He may have to answer how he was resting in Taiwan or talking, I don't know, about an African snake or an Australian kangaroo, etc. There's no requirement for professional language. The funniest thing has always been to teach dentists who need about 30 words to communicate with a patient, such as Ilfi and Petrovi Ellotška. At the same time, they must learn immensely other material that they will never use professionally. There have been times when policemen were paid for language training, then they began to be laid off and paid for themselves. Those who had the opportunity and who also had the talent learned the language at the appropriate level, which is now C1. We're talking about others who aren't even police officers, they're auxiliary policemen. That's one. Second of all, I remember being crowded. A deputy policeman is not a mobman, of course, but still something like that. You can continue to spend money. Actually, this verb's a 'expend' here with the keyword. It's really just spending money. You need to deal with children, already in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U13	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U14	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! My question is not so much language as system-centred. I realized the proposal was about the relief police, but right now we heard a long story about a different category of people, not about the police. You are not worried at all about the lack of police officers in the area, and you will see the solution to the fact that (I will use your words) to make this task be carried out in a crowded manner. If the police get any lower, we'll create more crowds. Is this the idea that you are trying to present to us now that the solution could be a bit more crowded with a lower level of language skills?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U15	Thank you. I cannot thank you for a good question, because it was not a good question. I came before you with a soul open and a desire to try and solve a problem. Just because you're trying to provoke me doesn't work today. I'm not gonna fall for it. I was talking about the problem, the help police, the kindergarten, and how easy it is to teach there, compared to what happens after school and adult education. I'm not going to turn away from that direction much. You can come up with random fantasies for yourself. It's just not true, it's not what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U16	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U17	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am, of course, strange to hear when Ida-Viru County is spoken of as a place that is a little less the Republic of Estonia than other counties. I also find it strange to hear that in the Republic of Estonia, the law enforcement authorities are, however, police or auxiliary policemen; both are law enforcement officers who communicate with people; they do not need to speak the national language or it is enough that they know it a little. But my question to you is this. Can you imagine that in Russia, for example, it would be possible to be a law enforcement officer without sufficient knowledge of Russian? Can you imagine that in the United States, Great Britain or France, it would be possible to be a law enforcement officer without speaking the official language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U18	Answer until everything is said, so the heart is satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U19	Thank you. Let me be clear: how much time do we have to answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U20	Thank you. Firstly, that Ida-Virumaa is like less Estonia than any other part of Estonia, you and the verbatim said it would remain so. I didn't tell you that, and we never told you that. My sincere opinion is that Ida-Virumaa and, for example, South-East Estonia, Võrumaa and Valgamaa have more Estonia than Harjumaa or Läänemaa. I'll explain why. Because the social and economic situation of people there is much harder, but they just live there. They are, in my opinion, much bigger patriots than those who do not have these problems. I have never said that a policeman or an auxiliary police officer does not need to communicate in Estonian. I've read you the language level C1 requirements. Now I'm going to read you the level B1 requirements. Please observe and wonder if you think it would be sufficient for an assistant police officer to be a person who understands everything important on a subject that he knows, such as work, school, leisure, etc., to be able to do mostly in a foreign country where the language is spoken, to produce a simple text on an familiar or self-interested subject, to describe experiences, events, dreams and goals, and to briefly explain his or her views and plans. These are the requirements at level B1. If that's not enough for you, I really don't know what this is about. Maybe you only communicate with academics. But I don't think so. I remember the introduction, but somehow your question vanished. I'm sorry! Oh, yes, Russia! Your question has shown that you are not watching Russian television and have not seen how a police officer is depicted there. I think that if a policeman speaks the language in Russia at level B1, as described here, it is already the ideal option.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U21	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! First of all, of course, it is important to say that a wise person makes a difference between what is a language exam and what is the common use of that language and what is appreciated. It is also clear that the assistant police officer represents the state and the Estonian official language is Estonian. It is understandable, too, that in order to succeed in Estonia it is essential to know the Estonian language and, in fact, a few other languages, including Russian. It was good for me to listen in this hall how Valeri asked Mikhail in Estonian and received an answer in Estonian. I would also like to see the same situation in the City Council of Narva, for example, and if it had been there even when you were in charge of it. That is why I ask: what have you done in order to be willing to learn and use Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U23	Thank you. I have taught Estonian for ten years, I have had 2600 adult students. Most of them learned to gain Estonian citizenship, and they also received it. I have taken part in such an action as 'Pensionary, start speaking in Estonian'. In the early 1990s, there was a great deal of unrest, of which the pensioners of Narva took an active part. At that time, the council allocated a very modest amount to study the language, and we worked on almost pure enthusiasm. Over a number of years, 13,000 pensioners visited us. The absolute majority of them became Estonian citizenship. I have written three textbooks for self-students who have no one to ask about the grammar of Estonian. Together with Elle Välja, I have compiled two dictionaries, one of which is unique, nothing similar has been done in Estonia before or since. It's still being asked from stores. This year I will prepare another Russian-Estonian dictionary containing 20,500 words and all morphological forms. It's the first such dictionary, I checked, since 1980. With this dictionary alone, you can learn Estonian. During the entire period of independence, no such dictionary has been issued. You know, of course, how words need to be changed, but the Russian who learns Estonian does not have to take these forms anywhere. The dictionary shall contain at least six consonant lyric forms and nine verb forms. Right now I'm writing another textbook. The hope is that the fact that I am a middle party will not interfere with the project on the basis of which I will begin to teach on television the Estonian language lessons that have so far, in more than 20 years, no one has done on a proper level. So to ask me what I have done to ensure that Estonian is learned is extremely stupid, I think. But maybe you didn't know all that. Then it was a wise question that gave me a chance to make everything clear to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U24	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U25	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, I was going to ask the co-rapporteur, but I realized that my colleagues would be so happy when we speak with each other in Estonian, and I gave in to the temptation. Here's the question. A cop I know asked me that this morning, and I owed him an answer. I'm sorry, but I quote him: 'Why the hell does the Riigikogu Committee on Culture discuss this problem, who knows nothing about our work? ' What's the matter? Could this not be done by a committee that is more familiar with the subject and knows more about the police's daily work than the honourable members of the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U26	Thank you. I don't know. That was the decision of the Riigikogu Board. Everything that concerns the Estonian language, the official language, is a sacred cow and is dealt with by the Committee on Culture, others are told: go home. But thank you for asking, because you gave me an opportunity to clarify one of the previous answers. I did not quote the requirements for the knowledge and use of the Estonian language of civil servants, employees and self-employed workers. These are in the Government of the Republic's decree. For example, at least level B1 of the Estonian language must be mastered by university lecturers, rescue workers who, in my opinion, operate in a much more critical situation than auxiliary police officers and should also master the language better, soldiers in active service and Who's the assistant cop? He's the junior officer. Younger officials are also required to do so. So this demand for C1 has been overstretched, and it doesn't make any sense. But I don't know which committee would be the best place to discuss it. It's actually best to discuss it in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U27	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U28	Thank you. Dear waitress, Listening to you made me feel like we had one thing in common. It's that neither one of us likes onions. But from there, our paths will separate. I certainly am not as talented as you, because I have not learned any foreign languages in one and a half months or two, but as an adult, I ended up in a foreign environment and learned a totally foreign language for me in a year and a half. Not only did I know how to formulate my dreams in that language, but I was able to start fulfilling them. I did so for two reasons: respect for this society and because it gave me better chances. Now I'm surprised and want to ask. The Centre Party is opposed to Estonian-language education in upper secondary school. You now also have problems with the requirements of the Estonian language skills of police officers. Why don't you just pull yourself together and tell the Russian-speaking people here to learn the Estonian language and improve their chances?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U29	Thank you. What you said about onion sounded really nice. I hope that neither of us means our colleague Priitu. He gets it right, doesn't he? Look, it's a strange thing about how people who sink one thing or another, and they do it consistently and over the years, don't want to understand what they're really doing. What do you mean, he has to? We live in a free democratic society. I've already told you that I've been to America once, namely New York. It revealed that all official information in New York City and state is printed in eight languages. A few years ago, Russian also became an official political language in New York City, and it is compulsory to translate political agitation into that language. On the phone, you can get information in more than a hundred languages. That's the free world! In this free world, New York is Chinatown, where I had the impression that half the population didn't even understand the simplest English. In this democratic society, everything fits very well with each other, finds its place and does not interfere with each other. In London and Birmingham, I wondered when I saw police officers in a sikh's hat. I asked what form it was. It turned out that there are so many Sikhs that it is necessary to employ them, even if they do not speak English, because the entire districts are full of Sikhs. But faith forbids them to wear any other hat, and that's why this new form of police came into being. I've been told how people in New York are looking for Brighton Beach policemen who speak Russian. I mean, in a democratic society, understand, the question is: give a person a chance to learn a language, but don't push it. I repeat: if I am talking about the need to set a level B1 instead of a level C1, this does not mean that a person who speaks a language at this level is incompetent. Do I have to read to you again what B1's language level means, or do you watch it for yourself? The explanatory memorandum gives a nice description of what "C1" means and what "B1" means. Your level is C1, the assistant policeman needs a level B1. You're not suggesting that the assistant policeman's job is the same as your job, I mean the linguistic side? I'm telling you about a particular problem: 30 auxiliary police officers are missing. They can help to keep order much more effective than they do now. These people are also taken, but they speak Estonian at B1. It's up to us to decide whether an auxiliary policeman has to speak at B1 or C1. Come on, people, start thinking a little and think about your life experience! When it comes to how I learned something, that's how life is. Sometimes we all learn something. One of the scariest things I've ever had to understand in my life has been differential geometry. I don't know if there's anyone in this room who can imagine what this is. It's a mathematical subject, completely insane! I overcame it because there was a need. There was a particular need, and without it, it would simply not have been possible. Just like you. But what am I telling you? Since I passed the exam, I've never used differential geometry in my life. It's life, that's how it works. I have heard the same argument in this Chamber since 1999. Then we talked about the fact that a 66-year-old cannot acquire a language at the level of citizenship. Here were my colleagues (I do not want to name their names, they have long since left politics) who said that they did it, that they did it and that they did it at the age of 50 and 60. You can't demand that! You're a great authority, aren't you? How can you compare yourself to an assistant police officer? You can't ask everyone to be on your level, because then perhaps someone else would be sitting in this hall instead of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U30	Thank you. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U31	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll make sure this discussion goes somehow out of focus. We are talking about a relationship between a person and a country, but what the country offers to a person is also very important. If we look at the country's most important tasks, one of them is certainly security, not only security, but first security. I do not think we can talk about this if there are very many vacant posts in this area. You offer a solution by changing language skills requirements, but in fact it should also be the concern of the Minister of the Interior. You have described that this problem has been going on for several years. What exactly has the government and the Minister for the Interior proposed to solve this problem? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U32	Thank you. I think that something has been done in the area of language learning, because money comes from Europe and it needs to be spent anyway. Even though I've been away from the active process for a long time, I still think there's something you can get from the Department of Internal Affairs. But, dear colleague, you understand that this is a sacred cow. We're just afraid to look at the core of the problem and find out what it really is. In the early 1990s, when the dance and examination requirements of the language categories began to change all the time, the language teaching professionals, seeing which direction the matter was moving, began to say that it was necessary to teach kindergarten children. If they had been listened to, a generation of Estonian-speaking people would have grown up by now, and the second generation would soon be added. But they didn't listen. Now, from the study aids. I must confess with great shame to you that I have sometimes been unable to translate one or the other textbook text from school. I once helped my son, who was then in seventh or eighth grade. The text was about Estonian farm life in the 18th century. You can't imagine how many words there were that I didn't even understand in Russian after I looked up the meaning in the big dictionary. It is hard to understand how such teaching tools develop. Why do we still not have a continuous language learning process? After all, it is so easy to choose the best bidder on the basis of a competition, to do the same TV courses and to put them out somewhere for free online learning. It's not all there. These things are available free of charge in England and the United States, in the places I've already told you about. We don't have it for some reason. There are no proper dictionaries either. So it's like a sacred cow. I don't know who's pushing the button and who's in charge of the process. But I have this feeling that the interest is that the Russians who live in Estonia will not speak Estonian for as long as possible. Yeah, but today we're going to solve a completely different problem. I suggest we focus on the auxiliary police.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U33	Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! In half an hour, you have tried to explain the content of the problem to the hall in the slave's clear Estonian language. From your point of view, the right side of the hall doesn't understand your arguments. What do you think is missing, Estonian or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U35	Thank you. Unlike you, colleague, I see people sitting on the right side of the hall and I see that they understand. They understand that this is just a political tantrum, and they realise that there is a problem. Do you really think there's someone on the right side of the hall who doesn't realize, compared to C1 and B1 categories, that an auxiliary policeman doesn't need a C1 level? This is a stupid political decision ever made. It needs to be changed, and that's it. They'll understand. But to do what's normal, it takes a little courage, and it takes people to think about it. We've lost that habit. You've been here as long as I have, even longer. You've seen how this hall has changed. I'll talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U36	Thank you very much. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U37	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In my opinion, this is a rational and very sensible draft. I live in Virumaa myself, and my ancestors and ancestors lived there since the Great Northern War or even before. My grandparents never perceived the language problem, which was raised in Estonia during and before the Soviet period. Why do you think people outside Virumaa see this language problem absolutely the other way around, so-called feet standing up, not like the people who live and communicate in the area? There is no question of understanding between people; there is no such thing as a language barrier when it comes to interacting with one another. Its language barrier has been built by us. Why are we trying to do this when we're on the outside?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U38	Thank you, Lembit! I'll tell you another funny story. That was in 2006, when I was chairman of the council. I went to our businessmen's club the night after work, which was in a pretty new hotel back then. The people I met there were in a very good mood, they were so amused. I asked what it was about. They told them that a representative of EAS from Tartu had to come to them in the morning, a slimy lady, about 30 years old. They were sitting there waiting for him at the hotel. That's where the conference room was built. The lady had to come to see what it looked like, whether she was responding to the project, etc. Maybe he called, said he was in Narva, and asked if anyone could meet him. Man got lost, got it. If you live in Tartu, it is so easy to get lost in Narva. They asked where he was, what he saw nearby. Then the answer came: 'I see you, I'm across from the hotel. " They saw that indeed, there is a car in which the lady sits and speaks on the phone. They didn't understand anything, but they met him. It was 20 meters from the parking lot to the restaurant. During the day, the lady was shown the city, on a tour, so and so. At the end of the day, before he left, he admitted that if he drove to Narva for the first time in his life, he thought it was only worth getting out of the car if he was either immediately raped, kidnapped, or killed, or something scarier happened to him. Such thoughts have been instilled in people for a long time. No one jokes about Ida-Virumaa and any nonsense about Ida-Virumaa can be said by a minister. Our regional minister has told us several times that Narva's problem is that there is no Mafia in Narva, others have the Mafia, and that is why they are doing well. That's the kind of shit they say about Ida-Virumaa. These stereotypes have evolved over the years. It's very convenient: separate and enjoy being in power. That's how it works. Every new county governor who comes to Ida-Virumaa starts by saying that he will improve the region's authority, engage in positive propaganda, etc. It's enough for two years, and he gives up because it's impossible to do it, it's already in the brains like a tumor. That's why it's the attitude. I don't think there's anything you can do about it. We've already calmed down in that sense. Yeah, we don't have a problem there. In order to understand this, we need to go there and look at this area. In fact, very few do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U39	Thank you. However, I have a proposal to stick to the draft decision. We're already talking about marketing. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U40	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to ask you, Mr Stalnukhin, if you answer my question, please do not tell any story or fiction again, but answer the question. I did not get an answer to that question in the Committee on Culture, and that is why I am asking here. You have finalised your proposal for a decision to propose to the Government of the Republic as a draft. If you are as competent as you speak here, why aren't you preparing this bill now, why are you proposing to the Government of the Republic to prepare this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U41	Thank you. That's a good question. We did this because I want to talk to you. Acting is actually a piece of cake. I can do it in half an hour, but it'll blow up without further ado. 51 votes are needed for the decision to be taken. For that, I have to get you on board, and I still have the hope that this is possible. I want to communicate with you. I'm not making anything up, so don't talk about fiction. I'm responsible for every word I've said here. Our aim was to provide you with a draft decision, to create some kind of debate here (in my opinion it has succeeded) and perhaps to explain what the situation is and what we can improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U42	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understood why this decision was needed by the law. On the human side, I ask: How many people would this decision affect, thousands, hundreds, or dozens?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U44	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Next, I would like to ask Paul-Eerik Rummo, representative of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U45	Thank you. It's the Precinct of the East. According to my data, there were 31 unfilled places in the spring where a person who speaks Estonian could have been found, but at level B1, not like a member of the Riigikogu. Yeah, it's about 30 people. In the Committee on Culture, there was a slightly higher number than the representative of the Ministry, but the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture is speaking about it himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U46	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! In order to deal with this draft, the Management Board of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Culture discussed this draft thoroughly at its meeting on 22 October. The bill was presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, a member of the Riigikogu, presenting basically the same reasons, explanations and arguments that we have heard today. Priit Heinsoo, Head of the Department of Order and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Mariko Jõeorg, Legal Adviser to the Minister of the Interior, and Riina Koolmeister, Deputy Head of the Language Department of the Ministry of Education and Research participated in the meeting. Perhaps it is also of some importance that Mr Stalnukhin was present at this committee meeting in two roles; he was there as a representative of the initiators of the draft and, in the absence of one of his political groups, as an alternate member of the committee. I am not going to repeat here the arguments and arguments of the draft authors. We heard them from the previous rapporteur in depth and even from a broader background than this draft may have been directly included. I would like to introduce you to the course of the debate that has taken place in the Commission. We heard from the Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior that the involvement of relief police and volunteers in law enforcement is one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior. The Assistant Police Officer shall have the right to actively intervene in the event of irregularities and to issue oral and written orders to prevent or put an end to irregularities. If orders are not executed, he or she shall have the right to warn by enforcement and may, if necessary, be subject to direct coercion. In other words, it can perform all activities that allow for first reaction. In essence, and not only in substance, but also under the specific provisions of the Act on Assistant Police Officers, the Assistant Police Officer is a representative of the State authority whose legal orders are compulsory for the execution of police activities (I am currently quoting § 2 (3) of the Act on Assistant Police Officers). ' Paragraph 3 (2) states: 'The police officer may supervise independently the requirements of public conduct and, on his own responsibility, carry out the task of controlling the imminent increased threat to public order. ' It became relatively clear to the members of the Commission that, under these provisions, the assistant police officer is largely a representative of the state authority on the same basis and with the same powers as the police officer. The activities of an assistant police officer therefore have the same legal effects as those of a police officer and therefore justify strict demands on the assistant police officer, including linguistic requirements. All the activities of an assistant police officer in the exercise of their powers, which I read about a moment ago from the law of an assistant police officer, must be documented in writing and can be challenged. Mr Heinsoo, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, confirmed that the direction of the state is to involve more help police officers with the right to act independently, particularly in areas of disunity, which, when opened, means that help police officers must be given even greater opportunities, in substance and practice, to bear directly the duties of a state official, a police officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U47	Sorry, waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to consult, you could do it somewhere else. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U48	The representative of the Language Department of the Ministry of Education and Research introduced the content and nature of the language requirements in a more detailed way and confirmed that the proficiency of the Estonian language at level B1 cannot be considered sufficient for the performance of national tasks. If a state official, a police officer, has to speak a language at level C1, it is not possible to imagine a situation where a person who performs the same duties as a police officer and who has the same powers is less competent. During the debate quite a number of questions were asked and answered. They asked how the language courses to assist are organised. Can assisting language courses be organised for those who wish to take on the duties of an assistant police officer? The reply of the Ministry of the Interior was that motivation and compensation mechanisms are being developed for these volunteers, which make it easier and more convenient to carry out these tasks. It was acknowledged that language courses could certainly be a supportive option. As the Auxiliary Police Act entered into force only in 2010, no additional language training has yet been organised for the Auxiliary Police Officers, but it was strongly acknowledged that this could be one of the additional ways of overcoming the problem. The question was, what is the number distribution of relief policemen by county and prefecture? There are 650 auxiliary police officers in Estonia, 80 of them are active in Ida-Virumaa. The national objective is to achieve one assistant police officer per thousand people in Estonia by 2015. As explained to us, the Ministry of the Interior has clear mechanisms to achieve this, in cooperation with specific prefectures. Each precinct has an assistant police coordinator. Looking for ways to achieve this goal, one assistant police officer per thousand people, by then. On the spot, Mr Stalnukhin, as a representative of the authors (hopefully in coordination with the other authors), proposed that the draft be brought to the Chamber in a modified form. Indeed, instead of the level of B1 for relief police officers proposed in the draft, the level B2 could be higher. This proposal was not supported by the Commission, because it does not actually solve the fundamental problem of this draft, because, although the assistant police officer also performs the duties of a state official, a police officer, it is intended to employ people with a lower level of language skills and less competence than a police officer. The Commission has come to the conclusion that this draft is not acceptable. It was decided, of course, by consensus (there is no other option in fact), but when the committee put to the vote on whether to adopt or reject the draft in the Riigikogu, the Commission's proposal was that the draft be rejected (the result of the vote was 5:4). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U49	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! How do you assess what is better if, for a year and a half, the precinct has been unable to fill nearly 40 police positions, or still, in order to ensure security in Ida-Virumaa, help police officers could be involved to resolve this issue? In addition, we do not offer a solution; we propose that the government formalise this issue with its own regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U51	Thank you. I object to your last sentence. This bill is addressed to the government with a view to the government initiating a legislative amendment. So it is not a question of amending the Government of the Republic regulation. But undoubtedly, the decrees of the Government of the Republic are given under the law, that is clear. However, we have received information that the problem of the shortage of auxiliary police officers is not only in Ida-Virumaa, so it is probably not just language level issues. The number of aid police officers currently in place does not correspond to the target that the country has set for 2015. If there are 650 auxiliary police officers today and the aim is to achieve one assistant police officer per thousand people, according to approximate estimates it would be about 1300 auxiliary police officers, then it is certainly not just an issue of Ida-Viru County and only of linguistic competence. We have received the answer that the Prefect of the East has seen a problem with the shortage of help police officers, but have not thought that increasing their number would somehow be behind this legal provision concerning the level of language skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U52	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U53	Thank you. Good waitress! I understood that there was no common language in relation to the language categories with the initiator of your draft in the Commission. But if a representative of the government admits that half of the auxiliary police are missing, what is the real solution? In his view, what should be done in three years to achieve this objective of 1,300 relief police officers? Was there any strategy introduced, or is it the subject of the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U54	No, from this angle, the Committee on Culture did not deal with this issue. I think it is possible for members of the Riigikogu who are interested in this subject from this angle to ask questions to the Minister of the Interior in briefings or questioning procedures in order to explain how this national objective can be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U55	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! For me, the news was that Mr Stalnukhin offered an opportunity to amend this bill and to put a B2 level in it. You see, level B2 is the one that gives Estonian citizenship, it comes at the end of the upper secondary school, it is also included in our integration plan. In short, in all areas of life, the state of Estonia considers the B2 level to be a proper language proficiency. What is the point now, why was the Commission not satisfied with the proposal to set this level as B2? Have you discussed what this level of B2 means, and are you willing to enlighten us more precisely what this level of B2 is and why can't a person who doesn't even wear a baton be limited to the level of language proficiency B2?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U57	Thank you. I am surprised, in turn, that although this draft has been submitted by the Centre Party Group, the members of this group do not know that the author of this draft has made a proposal in committee and before the Riigikogu's plenary, which is a 'dispare' proposal from the original text. This is somewhat strange, but it certainly does not matter, because the substance of the question is elsewhere. The content and meaning of language proficiency requirements were not particularly discussed in detail in the Committee on Culture. I think it was not because the members of the Committee on Culture know these things more or less in their sleep. As we have seen from Mr Stalnukhin's performance here, he too knows very well the content of these language proficiency requirements. So there was no reason to ask any questions on this subject; everyone involved is very well aware of these matters. However, as far as the B2 language proficiency level is concerned, it is certainly true, but it is certainly not the appropriate level to perform the duties of a state official, especially a police officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U58	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U59	Thank you. Honourable spokesperson! A member of the Alliance of Democrats is also an assistant police officer. He said that an assistant police officer had no right to carry a gun, a club, no right to arrest anyone, ask for identification, arrange for a search and interrogation. From this, I can conclude that when patrolling and working at all, an assistant police officer rarely gets a reason to say the word, or to say the word. Rather, it is not the need to speak, but simply the need to have a physical presence. So it doesn't matter if this person has a C1 or B1 language proficiency level. It makes perfect sense that an auxiliary policeman could have a B-1 level. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U60	Under the Auxiliary Police Act, which I quoted in the provisions relating to this subject, an Auxiliary Police Officer has the right to act like a police officer in certain situations, which are clearly described in the law and which are relatively spacious, with all the consequences, as well as all the competences required to do so. So it is not possible to allow a situation where a state official and a person exercising his duties under the law have different competences. That would be absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U61	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Apparently, the main misunderstanding has arisen about who is a policeman and who is an assistant police officer. The assistant police officer is actually a volunteer who deals with law enforcement on his own time and does not even get paid by the state for it. Well, he'll get a uniform. What's wrong with someone volunteering for free time trying to increase the security of the area? Is this language level B1, the content of which I do not know well, so weak that I am not able to communicate freely with an Estonian person?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U63	No doubt you are right to say that these are volunteers. That's right. But these volunteers, in certain specific situations, have the authority of a representative of the state authority under the law. That's the question. I also think it is important to note that the shortage of volunteers who want to take up the responsible work of an assistant police officer in their spare time and not paid for it is not just the problem of Ida-Viru County, which means, among other things, that it cannot only be a matter of linguistic competence. The problems are obviously elsewhere, and they must be resolved from what they really are.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U64	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You can also see that, on the one hand, we are dealing with protecting the language and, on the other hand, protecting the person. This is certainly a cultural issue and, in my opinion, it is the Committee on Culture that should deal with this matter. You, I believe, have been a member of the elite of cultural figures for decades. What does your gut say about the language question, would we endanger our language by changing the language level? How do you "culturally, internally" feel about this question? Why are we fighting this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U66	This was a question for me personally, not for me as the carrier of what has happened in the Commission, but I hope that the President will allow me, for a moment, to deviate from the presentation of the Commission's work. Personally, I also feel that it is not a question of weakening the state or state of the Estonian language, but of something else. The question is that Ida-Virumaa is part of the Republic of Estonia as a county. It is not conceivable that there are different laws than elsewhere and that people working there are subject to different professional requirements. I would like to emphasise once again that the assistant police officer, while volunteering and acting on a voluntary basis, is a representative of the state in certain circumstances. In the light of the logic of the draft, it can, of course, be imagined that there is a need for a situation where the language requirements of a police officer, or a state official, are also lowered and lowered, but this is already a very big and actually a slightly different issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U67	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U68	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I've been watching and listening to your performance for a long time. I have the impression that you believe that perfect language skills, including literacy, are the most important factor that characterises a person's loyalty to his or her country. However, integration studies do not confirm this. There are many factors other than perfect language skills, which show whether a person is loyal to the state or not. But you seem to have that faith. What other reason could there be? Why are you not prepared to actually make a very small compromise so that people can voluntarily and defend their own time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U69	None of the speakers in the Commission, the author of the question or the respondent, for a moment, touched on the issue of loyalty. Your question was, once again, partly to me as a person, not to me as a descriptionr of the Commission's work. I have never thought or expressed the idea that perfect language skills are the only or even the most important guarantor or trait of loyalty. If anyone thinks so, it is an extremely simplified understanding. There's no way I'm sharing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U70	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U71	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have a problem with law enforcement, of course. My question is fine-tuning. Citizens can make a voluntary contribution to law enforcement in very different ways. For example, there is an NGO Eesti Neighborhood Watch. There are more and more opportunities like this. Are they also covered by the rules of the language law, or is there an opportunity to contribute to the safety of your home street alongside the format of the assistant police officer, which is the subject of a very hot debate today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U72	It was not directly from this angle, but no doubt everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the safety of their immediate environment. The issue of language requirements is currently linked, as has been repeatedly said, to the fact that the assistant police officer, to whom these requirements have been applied, has the authority of a state official in certain circumstances, to the duties of a state official. That's the question. On the one hand, it is voluntary, but on the other hand, it is authorised by the State that a volunteer can act as a public official, as a representative of the State. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U73	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, There's always a mix-up in the hall. A deputy cop is not an official, and he can't be an official. He's an assistant cop, and there's a separate law about him. He's just not an official. When it comes to the fact that he sometimes plays a role, it is important to say that we all play a variety of roles in life. However, even a junior official is legally required to speak the official language at level B1. The question is, why do you always call an assistant police officer an official?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U75	No, I don't call an assistant police officer an officer. I hereby designate the Assistant Police Officer pursuant to § 2, § 3 of the Auxiliary Police Officer Act and, indirectly, § 4 of the Auxiliary Police Officer Act as the person empowered under these paragraphs to perform the duties of a State official, a police officer. This is a bit of a scholastic question as to whether or not he becomes an official at those moments when he performs these official duties and has these powers. My personal answer is more like this. This is not the Commission's position now, but I would like to remind you that about the same question was put to you by Mr Glass: why did you not prepare the draft yourself? Then there would be a clear legal understanding, it would be clear what the solution you are proposing to a situation that you think is unsatisfactory. You want to propose to the government that the government initiate a legislative amendment to reduce the language requirements of aid police officers. What the mechanism is supposed to be, it's not clear from this bill. At the same time, your appearance gives the impression that you know what this legislative, legal, legal mechanism should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U76	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U77	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, Please explain how you think this law threatens the security of Estonian people or the Estonian language!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U78	I have never argued that this law would endanger the safety of Estonian people or the Estonian language. I have argued that under the law of an auxiliary police officer, in the cases described in the law, the assistant police officer has the authority of a state official, a police officer. That's the question. Neither the debate in the Commission nor in this Chamber has made it clear how the linguistic competence of the assistant police officer can be changed in such a way that his rights and opportunities to perform the duties of a public official are not lost. To this end, it is likely that the entire institution of the assistant police officer and the law laying down it should be radically amended from the outset. This would mean an apology in my understanding, I speak again on my own behalf, in the Commission, such questions were not so deeply taken away from people voluntarily from taking advantage of or restricting opportunities to participate in law enforcement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U79	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U80	Good Commission waitress! I sincerely believe that the debate in your committee was very deep, serious and debateful. If we look at the content of this draft and the proposed solution, what are we talking about? We are talking about security, which is one of the main functions of the state. Ida-Viru County has a problem with that. It's just that there's a lot of unfilled relief police station. So the ability is lower than it should be. It will certainly also reduce national security in the region. However, if the majority of the members of the Commission felt that the proposed solution was not the right one, what did they think was the solution? Or did the Commission really not consider alternative options?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U81	The Commission was based on the fact that lowering the language requirements of assistant police officers, no matter what legislative mechanism to use to do so, whether to order a draft from the government, to initiate this draft in the Riigikogu or to act in any third way, does not solve the problem of the shortage of relief policemen, but at the same time it creates legal confusion and I add it again on my behalf
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U82	Thank you very much, good waitress. No further questions for you. We're going to negotiate. The representative of the Centre Party Group, who comes to the chair, is Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain to you why I proposed a compromise within the Commission to send this draft hall in such a way that level B1 would be converted to level B2. At some point, I felt that the Committee on Culture had, like, some real interest in dealing with the matter. As a representative of a political group, I have the right to make such a proposal, because there is no time for consultation in this case. The whole question was that there had to be some consensus, some way to negotiate. We're all politicians, and either way, we're sinners. My greatest sin as a politician, I think, is that in 2004 I supported the draft law which separated local governments and the Riigikogu. Until then, there was a constructive debate in the Riigikogu. It was possible to negotiate with the representatives of all the political groups, because all those sitting in this Chamber were members of a council. If you think this has nothing to do with it, it does. Everyone was aware of how life works in Estonia. But today's debate has shown that there is no more such idea. I am telling you that the savior needs to master the language at level B1, teacher and lecturer both at school and at university must speak the language at level B1 (if he does not teach the Estonian language) and the junior officer must speak the Estonian language at level B1, but the assistant policeman has been required to speak the Estonian language at level C1, but he is not even an official. We can at least start some constructive debate. Yeah, I could have prepared this bill, but the goal was to talk to you. After all, today you do not need to vote 'no', some of you simply need to vote 'yes' and we need to move forward. There is a specific problem and it can be solved. It doesn't cost the state anything, but law enforcement gets a lot more. Why not? It's only a pure political turd that stands in the way. In the old days, a member of the Riigikogu depended on his voter. I would have liked to see how in this Chamber the decision to cancel the coffin money would have been taken if all those who voted for it had had to go to their municipality or city council and communicate with the people who chose them and were asked uncomfortable questions. I haven't been here in the Riigikogu in a long time, you see, colleagues. I still remember how those negotiations took place back then. I went through 14 draft laws, even though I was in opposition. This was due to the fact that the coalition at the time, which had the Fatherland Union and the same Reform Party, thought that it would be better to do something for the Estonian people than to turn into the Centre Party. This is a situation where this sacred cow could be milked a bit, but there is no polite way to find it. Therefore, despite the fact that one member of the Riigikogu does not love to listen to my stories, I will tell you another story. If you don't like it, you can't listen. This is not about Estonia today, but about 2,500 years ago. Then the Greeks were known to fight the Persians. I'm sure you've all heard of the Marathon battle, including some. One battle took place near the town of Plataia, where some 70,000 Greeks won 300,000 Persians in battle. The Greeks were very religious. To them, Delfi's oracle foretold that victory could only come in Attica's territory. But the problem was that the armies were on another territory, on the ground of Plataia. In order for everyone to be satisfied, including the gods, a few days before the battle, the border was moved, or rather, the border was removed, and the territory of Plataia became the territory of Attica. We have more or less the same story right now. You all understand perfectly that in practice, an assistant police officer does not need a C1 level. My biggest dream in the language field would be to organise a C1 language level exam for you and see what comes out of it. You don't agree with that anyway. But it would be interesting to look at it. Now, given what has been going on here, given that the deputy officers are not officials, given all the reasons that have been heard here, I have to turn to you as follows: let's end the war, let's start a normal debate and a normal negotiation, if that's possible. If it's not, it's not. In any case, I call on you not to vote against, and even on the coalition, I suggest that you vote in favour. Let's keep talking. When people talk, they don't have time to fight. By the way, they're both getting smarter. I'm afraid we don't have that habit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U84	Thank you very much. Any more requests for negotiation? There's no more wishes. I'm closing the negotiations. We are going to prepare the final vote. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a decision, we will carry out a verification of the presence. Before that, I call people to the hall. Please, let's do the presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. Ladies and gentlemen, do you copy? Just in case, I repeat for the verbatim report that 75 members of the Riigikogu are present and missing 26. We can make a vote. When I said that last time, 26 sounded normal through the microphone, 75 didn't. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U85	However, since this is a very important vote, I ask that everything is technically in order and that we know how many people are in the Chamber. Now it sounded something like this: 20, aw, 20. It doesn't suit me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U86	All right, let's try it again: 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26 are missing. Let's keep going. I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Let's take a one-minute break. We'll proceed at 11:35. In the meantime, technical assistance will, just in case, review the matter so that the vote does not need to be suspended afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to another test. We are not doing any more verification of presence now, and we are about to proceed to the voting procedure. I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' proposed by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 251. Please take a stand and vote. By 34 and against 39 members of the Riigikogu, there are no abstentions. The draft decision was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U87	We come to the second item on the agenda: Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodichi first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please contact Rainer Vakra, member of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my pleasure and great honour to present to you the draft 260, which provides for the inclusion in the national immunisation plan of vaccination against tick-borne encephalitis for children living in relative poverty. Why did we come up with this bill? The reason is very simple. Some municipalities, including Nõmme Linnaosa Government, have been vaccinating their residents over time. We were approached by a number of parents who were aware of the risks, but had no financial means of vaccination. In 2011, a record number of cases of tick encephalitis were recorded in Estonia, namely 24% more than in 2010, and borreliosis 34% more than in 2010. Tick-borne encephalitis was experienced by 250 people and 2303 people with Borreliosis. If you look at these figures, you can see that the reported cases of Lyme disease decreased slightly compared to the same time last year, but the incidence of tick encephalitis increased several times. According to the Health Board, the risk groups include permanent residents, especially children, living in areas at risk of tick encephalitis, as they are more active in life and often in nature. Even before going to the country or camp, parents should have their children vaccinated. It is recommended to start from the age of one. If you look at the map of Estonia, you can see that the most infected people are people in Saaremaa, East and Lääne-Virumaa, Läänemaa, Pärnu County and Tartu County, but more generally the whole of Estonia can be called the danger zone. Vaccination against tick-borne encephalitis consists of three injections, the first two of which are given between one and three months apart, the third nine months to a year later. One vaccine costs an adult an average of €23.30 and a child an average of €20.23. The high cost of the injection is the reason why many Estonian families find the tick encephalitis vaccine inaccessible. Children's ombudsman has compiled an overview from Statistics Estonia, which shows that the situation of children in Estonia has deteriorated in recent years and almost one in five children lives in poverty. The situation of children is more complicated than that of people with an average level of poverty and has deteriorated further in recent years. In 2010, 19.5% of children lived in relative poverty. In the event of the entry into force of this Decision, the State shall ensure that vaccination against tick-borne encephalitis is given to children who live in relative poverty, i.e. whose family has an average income per family member below the relative poverty threshold. It is estimated that 48000 children live in relative poverty in Estonia. Based on the cost of one injection of tick-borne encephalitis to the child of EUR 23 and the need for three injections during the year, this decision will increase the state budget expenditure by EUR 3.3 million. I also received several replies from the Commission that it is absolutely certain that, even if the country compensates for vaccination, not all children may be vaccinated. This means that the actual cost of the State is several times lower. As a result, it is important that the state acts in a systematic and coordinated manner by channelling resources towards helping children and families living in poverty. When you look at a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs, I am pleased to see that they supported the idea. But on the minus side, there are two important principles to be applied here. The first four in the six paragraphs explain why this good idea cannot be applied. While the last paragraph, sixth paragraph, recognises the idea set out in the draft, it is stated that the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases provides that prevention and control of communicable diseases can be financed from the municipal or urban budget. Perhaps briefly, the Ministry of Social Affairs says that the idea is good, its implementation is essentially possible, but this should be done from the municipal budget. Another important minus in this letter is one that, unfortunately, always tends to be in the opinions on opposition drafts: there is very long talk about why a proposal cannot be carried out, and at the end of the opinion it is also written that the idea is good, but rarely there is any substantive solution to how it can be done. The Ministry of Social Affairs concludes: 'In summary, we agree with you that compensating for vaccination against tick-borne encephalitis would create the prerequisites for more children from economically disadvantaged families to be vaccinated, but cannot be organised in this way through a national immunisation plan, as this is not in line with the objective, principles and practical arrangements of the immunisation plan. At present, the inclusion of vaccination against tick encephalitis in the national immunisation plan is also not a primary priority. " At the same time, I am pleased to note that the Director General of the Health Board, Tiiu Aro, has said in his articles that this is a very good proposal, which they have made to the Ministry of Social Affairs in the past. It is still in favour of this proposal. In the Commission, it ultimately became decisive to refer to the expected increase in child support. I asked the Honourable Finance Minister during the state budget negotiations whether it is true that eight out of ten children actually do not receive support. In terms of numbers, this means that there are currently 259097 children in Estonia, but according to the agreement of the coalition parties, the increase in child benefit will affect 50,000 60000 children. This means that eight out of ten children do not really feel an increase in support, and their families do not see it. For me, this is not a sufficient argument to throw this bill aside and to say that these issues will be resolved by an increase in child support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U89	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Just in case, I would like to remind you, once again, that every member of the Riigikogu will also be able to ask a question to both rapporteurs during the debate on this item. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! This is indeed an appropriate and much-needed draft, because whose health will still be cared for if not for the health of children. When the bill was prepared, the ambassadors could not specifically offer where to take the money. Is this opportunity now available, and have we proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U91	Thank you, Honourable Asker. If we look at the amendments to the state budget made by the Democratic Community last week, this source of funding is foreseen there. So it can be said that the drafters Kalle Laane, Lembit Kaljuvee, Inara Luigas, Deniss Borodich and Rainer Vakra have also provided financial means to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U92	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned in your speech that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not take a negative view and rather supports this bill. It is probably a good idea to work together on this in the future. The facts you have presented show that 48,000 children live in relative poverty in Estonia. The Commission considered that, as child benefit increases, it also covers the cost of giving injections. However, we know that the best way to support children is if the money does not come to their home, but if the state supports vaccination, it pays for school food and so on. Do you think it's a good idea that the state comes to the rescue of these children by injecting them free of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U94	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The question is what we expect of our country. Are we waiting for the country to stand up for the weakest, for those children who really need help? The hope that the parents of these underprivileged children, whose child support is rising (I repeat that it concerns only two out of ten children), the money immediately spent on vaccination, is, in my opinion, unlikely, if not completely unlikely. The Commission spoke of the reply of the Ministry of Social Affairs that this cost should be passed on to the municipality. If you look at Tallinn and neighbouring municipalities, you can see that the situation is uneven: some municipalities support, some do not, sometimes vaccinate against influenza, sometimes against tickencephalitis. Therefore, one of the important objectives of this draft is also the establishment of a system and order for the vaccination of children in the country, so that it is not the case that children who have come to the aid of their family live on some streets on the other side of the street, but it is said that unfortunately the rural municipality or the city do not have the resources to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U95	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U96	Thank you. As you said, good waitress, the purpose of the immunization program is to establish order. Experts will also provide input to the implementation of the Immunisation Plan. They have assessed that it is now the most priority in Estonia to ensure vaccination against rotavirus infection in all newborns and vaccination against pneumococcal infection in high-risk groups. Let me get this straight. You don't think the experts' assessments are adequate and you're raising the vaccination against tick encephalitis above these priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U97	Thank you. The so-called classic argument against this proposal, which we have heard before in this Chamber, is that it is not possible to do so through the immunisation programme. Specialists have discussed this possibility, and I can say that the reply of the Ministry of Social Affairs specifically states that they do not see the problem of including this vaccination in this plan. In addition, the above Commission has proposed to add this vaccine to the list of preferential medicines. They suggest that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's reaction to this proposal was not positive. I read very clearly here that experts themselves admit that the issue is serious and are trying to find a solution. But the question should not be limited to whether this solution can only come through an immunisation plan. When I introduced the draft, I said that I am sorry that the opinions of the ministries are often such that they are six paragraphs, and the last paragraph praises the idea, the first four or five paragraphs say why the proposal cannot be implemented, but never say there that, friends, it is a good idea and the ministry suggests that if it cannot be done in the same way, it can be done differently. With regard to this proposal, the Ministry could have said that if this could not be done through an immunization plan, it could be done through a health insurance fund or some other way. Because there is no discussion, although it is said that the idea is good, I am most sorry. I don't understand that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U98	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that you felt that this proposal was a good one, and the Members of the Commission also supported this proposal. Why did the Members of the Commission vote down this proposal? Maybe the performer was wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U100	Thank you, good questioner! I certainly did not say that all the Members of the Commission applauded and praised this idea. Rather, it was said in the same way as in the Ministry's opinion that the idea is very good, but there are also several reasons why we should vote against this proposal. The rapporteur of the Commission will be sure to explain why, in the end, the opinion remained that the Estonian state would not need it and that Estonian children living in poverty should not be vaccinated against tick-borne encephalitis. I'm sure that's on their conscience. But it was evident that, like the Ministry, the members of the Commission, in spirit and heart, actually support this idea and idea, but there was a lack of constructiveness, or the idea of how to solve this problem. During the discussion, they tended to stick to the points of why it was not possible to do so, and there was less discussion on how we could do it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U101	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U102	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I think your proposal is very much appreciated. If you start with children living in relative poverty, I think it is entirely in line with the logic of the government, it is a 'need-to-need' proposal. Have you also considered that in the future, all children could be vaccinated against tick encephalitis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U103	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to ask for a co-report from Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U104	Thank you, Honourable Asker. When the drafters brought this draft here, our firm idea and idea was that we are talking about children living in relative poverty. As far as the future is concerned, we can discuss it, but within the framework of this draft, we are firmly committed to a need-based approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft of Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' initiated by Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich at its meeting on 22 October. Martin Kadai, Adviser to the Public Health Department of Rainer Vakra and the Ministry of Social Affairs, were invited to the meeting. The draft was presented to the Commission by Rainer Vakra, the representative of the initiators. After that, Mr Kadai, representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, stated that the Ministry had responded in writing to the initiators of the draft on the same issue. The Ministry did not support this proposal for two reasons. The purpose of the immunisation plan established by the Minister of Social Affairs' decree of 1 July 2011 is wider than the financing of vaccination alone. The aim of this plan is to change the epidemiology of communicable diseases. This will ensure that the target group has been vaccinated and will also monitor and monitor coverage. Amendments and additions to the immunisation plan shall be based primarily on epidemiological and clinical criteria for the disease to be avoided. Cost-effectiveness and the possibilities of the state budget will also be assessed. Martin Kadai stressed that the immunisation plan was uniform and that all the age groups envisaged had the right to vaccination and the possibility to do so. Mr Kadai did not agree with the initiators' proposal that the immunisation plan could be implemented restrictively in the future, bearing in mind the socio-economic situation of the people. This restriction is very difficult to implement in practice and does not guarantee the objective of the immunisation programme to significantly limit the incidence and spread of vaccine-avoidable infectious diseases. In 2011, 250 people were ill with tick encephalitis in Estonia, 32 of whom were children aged 0 to 19 years. According to the initiators' proposal, it is estimated that we would avoid between six and seven cases of tick encephalitis per year. The representative of the Ministry agreed that the number of cases of tick spread in Estonia is high. However, he pointed out that attention should be paid to the high proportion of Lyme disease which cannot be avoided by vaccination. A total of 2303 cases of Lyme disease occurred in 2011. It must be admitted that vaccination against tick-borne encephalitis does not solve the problem of tick-borne diseases in Estonia. It is therefore increasingly important to raise people's awareness of how to avoid tick bites. When present in a tick-dangerous place, insect repellents must be used and subsequently checked for ticks on their or children's bodies and clothes. These are simple and effective measures that everyone can take to prevent tick bites and to prevent a possible disease. The national organisation of vaccination against tick encephalitis has also been discussed in the Committee of Experts on Immunisation of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission also includes representatives of professional associations, including doctors of infectious diseases, family doctors, pediatricians, etc., from the Immunisation authorities. The Panel considered that since tick-borne encephalitis could become a disease for children regardless of age, the inclusion of vaccination in the national immunisation plan would require the creation of a vaccination option for all children aged 1 to 18 years. Such a decision will have a significant impact on the state budget. Vaccination against tick encephalitis is also a very complex process on the basis of an immunisation plan, as it requires revaccination. The panel recommended ordering a study to further assess the clinical and epidemiological criteria for tick encephalitis and the cost-effectiveness of vaccination in Estonia. At present, experts estimate that the highest priority in Estonia is to ensure vaccination against rotavirus infection in all newborns and vaccination against pneumococcal infection in all children at risk. Experts also consider it a priority to increase the coverage of Human Papillomavirus vaccination. The Ministry of Social Affairs is committed to introducing vaccination against rotavirus infection into the immunisation programme in 2014. At the same time, solutions are sought to vaccinate at risk children against pneumococcal infection and consideration is given to including HPV vaccines in the list of preferential medicines. The initiators' representative stressed that the Ministry has said in its reply that this is a good idea, but it cannot be done through an immunisation plan, and suggested that we discuss how to do it. This was answered by a representative of the Ministry so that it could be financed on an ad hoc basis by local authorities. Several municipalities have done so. The Commission also pointed out that good ideas require resources. The question was whether the priorities of the immunisation plan should be reviewed. The initiators' representative said that when the proposal came out, many doctors supported it and they considered it a priority. All in all, I will discuss the Commission with the words of our only doctor who said that certain services must be equally accessible, that the idea is correct, but he does not support the implementation of this immunisation programme. The Commission, having heard the various opinions, reached the following decisions: to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu today and to propose not to stop reading the draft (by 5 and 2 members of the committee against). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U106	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Viktor Vassilyev as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U107	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Maret Maripuu, quoted me as almost a living classic. I thought I was the doctor in the Social Affairs Committee. I think it is necessary to explain a little about the meaning of vaccination and immunisation. You see, the thing is, the immunization program lists the diseases that spread from person to person and are dangerous to gender, society. Tuberculosis, measles, sardines, childhood infections, etc. The rotavirus will be added again. But when it comes to tick encephalitis, it does not spread from man to man, nor is it dangerous for mankind. It's everybody's own business: if I get bit by a tick, I get encephalitis or borreliosis, I die or I get cured, but I'm not passing this disease on to anyone else. In this sense, there is a huge gap between the diseases in the immunisation plan and those that have been left out of it. I don't think it's right to do this through an immunization program. But the problem is that it is very difficult to vote against this proposal. I don't know how a coalition can push a red button and show that they're against caring for the health of children, they don't want to protect children, especially poor children. It's so ugly. But they're probably squeezing the red button. In this sense, the Democrats have come up with a very clever and good bill, yes. But they've hit the nail to a certain extent. While they break into the wrong door with the enviable energy, in fact, they should give the Government of the Republic the task of figuring out how to make one thing, another thing or a third thing available to children living in poverty, because in fact, a large part of the Estonian population lives in poverty, especially when compared to the Dutch population. It should also give children vitamins, bread and milk for pensioners, free of charge, and everything else. Everything could be provided free of charge because, for example, pensions and Estonia's minimum wage are such that they cannot be considered money at all. People need to be given what they eat and consume in their own hands because there's not much they can get for this money. So this is where young Democrat colleagues got nailed. People need to be guaranteed income so that they can afford vaccination, tick control, if necessary, proper meals, proper education for children. People's lives should be of high quality and enjoyable. The Government of the Republic does not currently have a programme to raise our economy to such a level that people can solve their problems without shaking their hands either in the Social Division of the Haabersti District Government or in the Social Department of the Government of Haabersti Linnaosa, or in the process of pulling the sleeves of Rainer Vakra, that okay, were a good man, gave socks, but they are already holed up, now they'd like to get tick injected. We would all like to live a decent life in this country. For that, we need a decent government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U108	Thank you very much. Any more requests for negotiation? There's no more calls. We are going to the final vote on the bill. To do that, we need to do a presence check. We're preparing for presence control. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 65 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, there are no 36. I vote on Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich's resolution 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' draft 260. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted against and 33 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U109	We come to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft Act supplementing the Social Welfare Act § 222, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Inara Luigas, Rainer Vakra and the Social Democratic Party. I ask for a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U110	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The development of the draft act has recently led to a very topical issue, i.e. the need to encourage the renovation and insulation of residential buildings where some members of the cooperative are experiencing difficulties and thus to reduce future costs for the payment of income support. The purpose of the draft Act supplementing the Social Welfare Act is to enable the recipient of income support to include in the cost of living the costs associated with the commitments made to renovate and heat the dwelling. According to the current law, members of housing associations cannot include such obligations in the cost of living. However, in the case of rental of a dwelling, the owner of the dwelling is able to reflect the costs of the obligation to cover the rent of the dwelling and then the current law considers such costs to be included in the costs of the dwelling when determining the income support. Thus, the current wording of the paragraph to be supplemented allows the cost of, inter alia, the actual rental or maintenance fee and the cost of heat and fuel consumed for heating and hot water to be taken into account as permanent living expenses for the payment of income support. Paragraph 5 of the same section states that a reasonable threshold for permanent housing costs, as we know, is set by the local government council. The Social Welfare Act deals on the same basis with the right to income support regardless of the way in which the dwelling is used. Both tenants and owners have the right to state assistance in the event of difficulties in their livelihood. That is not the case at the moment. The inclusion of a provision in subsection 222 (6) of the draft act would create the possibility to read the dwelling used, which, as I said, is also associated with loans for the renovation and insulation of the dwelling, regardless of whether it is a rental space or a dwelling belonging to the applicant's property. This would mean that the law would treat households in difficulty on the same basis. A reasonable limit, as I said, would be set by each council itself. I also think that this legislative amendment will reduce the cost of income support in the future, as it will improve the possibilities for housing associations to start renovations and insulation works and help to meet their commitments when a household member of the housing association encounters difficulties. I think that if this draft is adopted as a law, it will be easier for members of housing associations to decide in the future to renovate and heat buildings even if some members are struggling. In the use of dwellings, state aid would be available to those in need, whether they rent or own the dwelling. There would be a reduction in household costs for households experiencing difficulties in their livelihoods as well as for the rest of the members of the cooperative. On the one hand, when it comes to expenditure related to the implementation of the Act and the expected revenues of the Act, Estonia has no overview of how much of households in difficulty have committed to renovating and insulation their homes. It is also impossible to estimate the number of households that would qualify as beneficiaries of income support due to this supplement, since the local government council has the right to set a reasonable threshold. However, it is logical to conclude that the need for income support will initially increase somewhat, while in the sense of state budget expenditure, this is an estimated cost. At the same time, as we request, the thermal insulation of residential buildings will improve, the cost of thermal energy will be reduced, and the cost of heat used for heating, taken into account and compensated for in the calculation of income support will therefore be reduced. Just a little statistical example. According to KredEx, their demonstration projects to renovate households with a cost of EUR 125 per square metre have achieved a 45% reduction in energy costs. What is also important is that when we look at other utilities that a person covers from his own budget, electricity and water consumption can be regulated in one way or another. If the money's less, you'll save some electricity. Similarly, it is possible for a person to limit the cost of water, of course in a reasonable way. However, when it comes to the commitments made by housing associations, one person cannot influence them. For this purpose, there is a general meeting of the building management company, which decides whether or not the building management company assumes certain obligations, for example in the form of a loan, in order to clean up the house and reduce the costs in the future. But these expenses must be paid by a person. They do not, for some reason, fall within the scope of the current law in terms of the costs that can be deducted from the sum. As far as the Commission's sitting is concerned, I cannot say that it was very constructive, as no questions were asked to me as a drafter of the law. It seemed to me that it was so clear that the draft would certainly receive the support of all the Members of the Commission. But, of course, surprise-surprise, when it went to vote, for some reason it was decided to vote down the draft by 6 to 5. As a young politician, a young member of the Riigikogu, I find this difficult to understand. I can bring a parallel. For example, this is not the norm in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There will even be a thorough discussion of all these draft laws, which will eventually be decided to vote down in one way or another. Unfortunately, this was not the case in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was particularly strange to watch the vote of the members of the IRL. After all, they fought to lower home expenses, they said that if houses were to be insulated, the costs would be reduced in the future. This would be a concrete measure on how to kick-start this activity. The fewer people are afraid of their income, the more likely it is that the cooperative's general meeting will pass the loan decision. In my opinion, IRL members had a good opportunity to honour their electoral promises and support this bill, but this did not happen, although the Ministry of Economic Affairs supported the draft in its assessments. Looking at the position of the Government of the Republic and analysing it, these reasons are very much sought here. They talk about decimal places, they say that it is not clear why one or the other topic is in this section or in this paragraph. But there were no substantive arguments against it. The only argument was that this draft really increases the state's income support expenditure to some extent. Of course it will, but in the long run it will. In my opinion, public policy is that we want to encourage people to take out loans, clean up the house, heat it up, then we have to pay less. But when it comes to public spending, we do not want to do this. What example, then, do we set for humans? In my opinion, our slogans do not overlap with concrete actions. But I hope that there are all reasonable people here, you will understand that this legislative amendment is necessary, and you will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Borodich. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I call Mr Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U112	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft § 222 of the Social Welfare Act Supplementation Act 245 was dealt with by the Social Affairs Committee on Monday 15 October. a. The draft law was introduced by the member of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodich, as the representative of the initiators of the draft law. In short, the purpose of the draft law is to enable the recipient of income support to include in the cost of living the costs of renovation and insulation of the dwelling. The position of the Government of the Republic is that the draft should not be supported. This view was presented by Kaili Didrichson, an analyst of the Ministry of Social Affairs Department of Welfare. The committee president proposed that the draft be sent to first reading with a proposal to close the first reading (by 4 members of the Commission, against 5, with no abstentions). Therefore, on the basis of the result of the vote, the proposal is to reject the draft law at first reading. Now a brief overview of the views expressed in the Commission. As the initiator's representative has already presented the draft, I will move on to those positions that were discussed in the Commission. Not only were we talking about decimal places, as Deniss Borodich said here, but also about the substance. As we know, the Government of the Republic has foreseen amounts for the insulation of apartment buildings. But yes, there is a problem that some people are not able to give their support to this process because it can be difficult financially. If the draft law enters into force on 1 January 2013, the question arises as to whether this provision applies to works carried out in the past, provided that such a line exists on the invoices. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications really supported this draft, but also noted that there was no country-wide analysis of the thresholds imposed by local authorities. As the opportunities of local governments vary, the money is different. Only then, once it has been monitored across the country, should a position be taken and perhaps harmonised. But it's all a work in progress. Income support is a temporary measure that ensures living on the basis of minimum costs, while the loan is usually a long-term measure. So there's a certain contradiction here. The contradiction is also that beneficiaries of income support who live in apartment buildings have been taken into account in making this proposal. But the question arises as to whether it is meant for people living in private homes. The costs of repairing a private house may also be problematic for a person living there who is struggling to cope. The principle of equal treatment arises here. If a person living in a private house receives income support on an equal basis, the local government will also set the corresponding limits. Finally, in order to ensure that people in need of state aid are targeted in the best possible way, the Ministry of Social Affairs plans to analyse this year the rules relating to income support, including the basis for calculating the allowance, in relation to the codification of the Social Welfare Act. Once this analysis has been carried out, the Ministry will develop proposals to amend the Social Welfare Act and possibly take into account the proposal made in the draft law. However, once again, an overview of the possible costs to the state budget of the draft law being dealt with is completely non-existent. Therefore, it is not possible to calculate such costs in the 2013 state budget at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U113	Thank you very much, Mr Rein Aidma. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U114	Thank you. Good colleague, Aidma! I was puzzled by the Commission's presentation. The Committee on Social Affairs should know exactly that we do not know whether a person who is struggling to cope lives in an apartment or in a private house. Similarly, if the law enters into force from a date, it will, of course, apply and all loans previously taken into account will be taken into account. There's no question at all. Those things you just brought up, they don't raise questions at all. The question may be that it is difficult to plan financial spending. Is the Commission prepared to discuss the entry into force of this draft at a later date in order to make this sensible change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U115	Thank you, dear questioner. I would rather stick to it, like the majority in the Commission, that if the Ministry of Social Affairs analyses and develops proposals to amend the Social Welfare Act, then we will look at the extent to which this proposal can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U116	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U117	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Do you really think that KredEx's help should not extend to a much larger number of people? At the moment, it is because of people's low incomes and fear that they will not be able to pay their debts and have to move out of their apartments that the loan is often missed. I think this is a valid proposal. What are your reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U118	Thank you, good questioner! Unfortunately, I cannot go too far with my reasons here, because I have to report on what was discussed in the Commission. We didn't touch KredEx directly. It is now known that applications have already largely exceeded the amounts that KredEx can share (this I know through KredEx). However, the fact is that next year the money from the sale of the carbon quota will be transferred to the resources of KredEx with an additional EUR 10 million. But when it comes to people's difficulties in coping, I say once again that we wait until the Ministry of Social Affairs has done an analysis of the Social Welfare Act, and let us see what financially justified proposals can be taken forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U119	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U120	KredEx is doing a great job. According to their data, the cost of renovation of households has been reduced by 45% by energy costs of EUR 125 per square metre. This will also cost less heat bills, people with difficulties in coping will need less help and the state will save money. But is it not fear that because we do not take these costs into account, the part of the housing fund that may need to be put up most and made heat-proof will not be renovated? We are doing the necessary work now, but where it is most needed, we are not doing the work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U121	Thank you. The main principle of the Social Welfare Act should still be to ensure that a person has a minimum temporary livelihood. For people who are in a troubled situation, it is still the best solution to find a job. That's my personal opinion on how to get out of this situation. The solution is not that if we had so much money, the state would start paying income support in all possible cases. It's a temporary measure for a person to get on his feet and get a job. These problems will also disappear once they get to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U122	Please, Mr Nestor, do you have a question or a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U123	I have a procedural protest. The answer to the question, which I did not ask, was not answered at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U124	It's already a matter of the conscience of the answerer. I'm sorry, but I can't regulate it! Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U125	Thank you. Dear waitress, You rightly said that renovation loans are long-term commitments, while income support is intended as a short-term support measure. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, you certainly know that income support is not how high it is. If a person has started to renovate his/her home at a good time with the housing company but is in a very difficult situation in the short term, how should he/she survive in this situation, given our already small income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U126	Thank you, dear questioner. We did not, of course, develop exactly this debate in the Commission. However, in replying briefly, it can be said that these same benefits provided for by the Social Welfare Act must temporarily ensure that this person, once again, I repeat that a reasonable limit on expenses is set by the local government councils, which may be able to cope with this situation as long as he or she is able to find a job. After all, here too, there are state measures that will help him find a job. How much can the financial contribution of the State proposed in the draft law be taken into account in this regard? I think that if the Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out monitoring of the situation arising from the Social Welfare Act, then it is also possible to take account of what is proposed in the draft after that. How much, this has to be shown by analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U127	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U128	Thank you. Good Commission waitress! I listened to the answers you gave, for example, to my colleague, Eiki Nestor. It seems to me that you have not gone into this law and do not know what income support is. Income support has a temporary character and the state does not pay this person in a difficult situation for the rest of his life. These costs are certified every month; a person must show both his or her expenses and income. There's no consistency here. But do you not feel to yourself, as a Member of the Commission, listening to the discussion that arose here so that perhaps it would be best to discuss this subject at second and third reading as well, not immediately, as the government said, to vote down the draft and essentially not to discuss it? Of course, the easiest thing to say is that the government didn't support and that's why we don't have to worry about our own head.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U129	Thank you, dear questioner. My personal opinion is about how I vote. However, in the Commission, we stated that the draft cannot be supported because we do not see the possible cost side of this draft or how to cover these costs. Such an open-ended draft cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U130	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I would like to clarify: did the government or the Ministry plan to order an analysis and to identify the issues raised in the draft? If so, how long was it taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U132	Thank you, good questioner! I repeat, at the end of my position on the draft from the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is stated that, by the end of this year, the Ministry will have prepared an analysis of the best way of channelling state aid to people in need and an analysis of the regulation relating to income support, including the basis for its calculation, in order to develop proposals to amend the Social Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U133	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your answers, you have repeatedly referred to what was discussed in the Commission. As far as I am concerned, the members of the IRL or Reform Party, in short, the members of the coalition, were not discussing this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs. How can you call this debate in the Commission constructive if, in fact, there were no questions for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U135	Thank you. I cannot take responsibility for the other Members of the Commission. But I did not ask because I had a clear picture of the possible costs of this draft that cannot be identified in this context. It is not possible to process the draft if we do not see how much the implementation of this draft as a law will burden the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U136	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U137	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I couldn't help but notice that you said that you didn't have to receive income support for a long time, but that you needed to find a job. In the case of people of working age and who are able to work, I fully agree with that. But we have a whole bunch of people who just can't do that. They don't take out loans because they usually can't pay it back. They are, in fact, disabled pensioners who may not even be able to get out of their homes, as well as carers who take care of their children for a small amount of money, etc. Do you think it's only fair for them to get this help if, for example, a cooperative takes out a loan? For the second and subsequent members of the family, the subsistence limit is 61 euros. Indeed, a person simply cannot live.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U138	Thank you. You asked me again, good questioner, my opinion. In the Commission, we also did not discuss the matter in detail under this rate. But I repeat once again: if the Ministry comes up with proposals based on analysis, I believe that this area will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U139	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U140	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Now, if we all speak honestly from the very beginning, I have asked the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Commission this question: has the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out an analysis of which limits have been set by municipalities? The answer was that this analysis was not available. Why do we not trust local authorities who, when setting limits, take into account people's livelihoods and the potential for life in the countryside (I mean not only rural areas but also cities here). While the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs decided that the draft should be rejected, I very much hope that today, in this Chamber, people will press the right button, perhaps the waitress will do the same and give the opportunity to work on this draft. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U141	Thank you, good questioner and colleague in the Commission. I have to answer a personal question again. We had no reason to trust local authorities in the Commission. The question is that if the state were to start paying this support from the 2013 state budget, there would be a problem that we do not, unfortunately, have an overview of the amount of expenditure that could be incurred across the state budget. Those who voted against the draft considered that they could not support a draft which they did not know about on the cost side. This is precisely a matter relating to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U142	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U143	Thank you. Good waitress! It is known that the state should treat its citizens equally. If we look at the context of the law, we will see that income support is available to both the owner and tenant of the dwelling. This is where the problem arises. If the tenant can put all the costs, including the costs of insulation, into the rent price, the owner does not have this option. The question here: how do you think equal treatment is guaranteed in the current regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U144	Thank you. This issue, or, rather, the observance or non-compliance with the principle of equal treatment, was discussed both in the Commission and in the debate with a representative of the Ministry. There's nothing else to answer. We did not find an answer to that in the Commission, nor did we seek it, because it is a much more complex complex complex issue. Once again, if the Ministry has been able to carry out an analysis of the Social Welfare Act, we will see how we can find an answer to this question in the future. That's one. Secondly, (we did not discuss this in the committee, but I can add it), the support group of the building associations of the Riigikogu is familiar with these issues. We will try to find better solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U145	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U146	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I heard you stress several times in your answers that this is a loose-ended draft, which does not contain a clear budgetary assessment or forecast. We in the Committee on Social Affairs often discuss drafts, vote for them and support them, although it is not clear what happens to the budget. Even the same needs-based child benefit that we discussed yesterday and where some issues were left in the air. But we will continue the debate and we will undoubtedly also find the answers. My question is this: do you not think there is any logical error here? We are now discussing this in this key, as if the great hall of the Riigikogu had some sort of technical control that controlled the opposition's drafts, whether they were drawn up correctly or incorrectly, rather than going along with the debate and later discussing the budget side of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U147	Thank you, good questioner, as well as my colleague from the Commission. I am of the opinion that we need to make rational decisions that we have a financial cover to implement. This draft, which we discussed in the Commission, is, to this extent, completely financial. We do not know how much these costs will increase and what the burden will be on the 2013 state budget. Unfortunately, we cannot go along with this logic. Once again, we will wait for the analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and then perhaps we will find a solution that we can reach in terms of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U148	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U149	Thank you. I will specify my first question. You said that income support is a short-term measure and is intended to cover minimum costs. Here's my question. Does a person have a free choice of paying monthly renovation costs or not? If, however, the answer is that a person cannot choose it, i.e. it is an urgent minimum cost that a person cannot give up, then I repeat my question: how can a person, while receiving income support and in a very difficult situation, be kept alive given that these costs are not taken into account when determining income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U150	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in this form in the Commission. But I can say, repeating myself once again, that if the Ministry carries out a cost analysis and it becomes clear what the state budget is going to be able to provide further assistance to these people, whether in the form of the same proposal as the draft law, we can also use these opportunities for those people who have been temporarily able to cope in such a zone that they must be helped by the state. But once again, we can't go overboard. The cost side of the proposed draft is not covered. We don't know how much these costs really are.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U151	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rein Aidma. I'm opening negotiations. As representative of the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof, the speaker's colleague, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U152	Honourable fellows! I will start by asking why our government departments think that an Estonian person has a pike memory. No, it's not. The people have not forgotten the main story of the 2011 Riigikogu elections of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, which promised to bring home expenses down. Many of us were even sent home with a so-called contract with the electorate, which, with its signature, confirmed this promise. The party of the Minister for Economic Affairs, which has regained power, is expected to implement it. In reality, however, everything has gone the other way. Housing costs have increased by more than 16% over the last few years. Electricity, heat and heating are expensive. Next year will lead to an increase in electricity bills of about a quarter, which in turn will lead to an overall increase in prices. All of this was foreclosed to the empty election pledges. Thus, home expenses continue to rise and there is no indication of the government's desire to alleviate the situation. The fact that electricity will be priced next year in the open electricity market and the government has little to do about it is blow people's eyes off. After all, there are many ways to protect our people. For example, if Estonia reduced electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union, electricity bills would decrease by nearly 4%. At present, excise duties on electricity are 4.5 times higher for our private consumer and 8 times higher for the commercial consumer. The state is also currently investing in renewable energy development through consumer wallets, i.e. electricity bills. Instead, we could freely use the money from the sale of CO2 quotas and the European Union's Structural Funds. In addition, the Competition Authority is weak in controlling energy companies. After all, the office is under the direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs. This is therefore a conflict of interest, where the Competition Authority may not be able to intervene freely in the activities of institutions under the administration of the Ministry, including Eesti Energia. Why not give the Competition Authority a separate competence and rules of operation, like Eesti Pank, so that it can stand up for consumers more effectively than before? The government has quite a few levers at its disposal to mitigate the rise in electricity prices to the consumer, but it remains behind political decisions. The election behind us, we began to hear from the IRL leaders a new interpretation of these ambitious promises. Indeed, reducing home expenses by means of funds from the European Union means loans and grants from KredEx, which are intended to reconstruct apartment buildings and, to a small extent, private dwellings. Fishing for energy saving in buildings is, of course, good and necessary, but it is not enough to talk about reducing home costs. All the more so as Estonia has approximately more than 40 million square metres of housing, of which only 2% have been renovated in the last ten years by means of KredEx measures. If we continue at the same rate, it will take more than a hundred years to circle existing dwellings. Only a few percent of Estonian households have benefited from the KredEx programmes so far and the grant money is, unfortunately, already out. None of us have been given a hundred years to wait. Energy prices are rising and poorly built apartment buildings are blowing the wind and falling apart. Last week, I asked the Minister in the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu for an explanation. I wanted to know where he would take the courage to say that in five to ten years, a large part of Estonian dwellings will be renovated and insulated and how much money will be spent. Minister for Economic Affairs Juhan Parts understood only to count on a good example that the example infects and that people themselves are willing to invest in their homes. The Minister for Economic Affairs said that it is worth keeping the subject up, that people should be informed and supported. Saving a sinker is therefore a matter for the drowner himself. The state does not plan to offer a support programme until more or less all residential apartment buildings have been made heat-resistant. This is in a situation where almost 97% of the housing fund belongs to private individuals, too many of whom, as we know well, cannot cope with the current compulsory costs, the more problems will arise when these costs are increasing. What, however, would motivate housing associations to make these very useful investments by using the wording of the Minister for Economic Affairs? The Social Democrats and the members of the League of Democrats of the Riigikogu want to help people not only by words but also by deeds. In particular, we proposed to include in the cost of housing for recipients of income support the costs associated with the commitments made to renovate and heat the dwelling so that debts would not grow as a rolling snowball. Our addition to the Social Welfare Act would help members of housing associations to decide more easily to renovate and heat buildings even in cases where the members of the cooperative are experiencing difficulties in their livelihood. This would reduce the household costs of those in coping difficulties, as well as the burden on the other members of the building management company. Unfortunately, the government departments have not been in favour of any good initiative that would contribute a little to reducing home spending. The Minister of Economic Affairs has made it clear to the Riigikogu and the government has failed to show that IRL's contract with the voter is the electoral contract with itself. It's been a scam of the slave from the beginning. The Social Democrats are calling for a vote on the draft for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U153	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft, we need to vote this proposal through. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the commission to reject the draft Act amending § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Inara Luigas, Rainer Vakra and the Social Democratic Party Group. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U154	Thank you! Before the vote, I ask for an eight-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-06_U155	Eight-minute break. After that, the hearing is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
