ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu a draft law amending § 32 of the Citizenship Act, which aims to make up for the error of the state that was committed in 1995 and 1996 in Estonia when the identity cards of an Estonian citizen were wrongly issued. In recent times these falsely issued identity cards have been taken away in relatively large quantities. In 2011, 33 people lost their identity card. It is claimed that the law allows this error to be solved in a favourable way only in the case of a passport issued until 1995 when the person has received the passport at a later date, but not in the case of a passport. The purpose of this draft is to provide a legal basis for this procedure to be possible also in the case of later issued identity cards, because ultimately the state is still a person, not a person for the state. I hope that we will be able to deal with this draft as soon as possible, because there are certainly no differences in the worldview here. If so, it is only in this very basic sense whether we are dealing with a democratic country that cares about its people or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U3	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry and a draft to submit on behalf of the Centre Party Group. The inquiry is for the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, and it deals with the infamous amount allocated to libraries for the acquisition of journals. I'm not going to rephrase the question, but we have six questions that we drafted on the basis of what was published in the media. There were a lot of questions for the Minister regarding the new regime. In our view, he has not been able to respond exhaustively. Hopefully he'll do it in response to our questioning. I will also hand over the draft law amending the Citizenship Act. One thing that absolutely needs to be fixed is what we've all been discussing over the last week. In particular, it must be changed when people are deprived of their nationality because an official made some kind of error in the formalisation of documents. The second point of the draft act concerns people aged 65 and over. Our proposal is to exempt them from the Estonian language exam and to give them the opportunity to pass the examination of knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia in some of the working languages of the Council of Europe. There are four languages, not 24, so that's not impossible at all. Another important point concerns newborn children. It is the proposal of the Centre Party to give their parents the opportunity to apply for the citizenship of children at birth when they register the child. To this end, one of the parents must have a grey passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U5	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 18 January, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Good fellows! The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Now we're going to do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U8	Let us now go to the agenda items for today. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act initiated by the National Defence Commission. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Committee Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The development of the draft is due to the need to provide Estonia with the opportunity to participate quickly and flexibly in the international military operations initiated by NATO or the European Union with the staff officers of the Defence Forces and, where appropriate, with the staff officers. Such an operation may be initiated at any time and, unfortunately, mostly with little notice. According to the current law, the corresponding draft decision of the Riigikogu will be sent to the ministerial coordination circle as soon as possible, but there may be a situation where the draft will not reach the Riigikogu until the operation has ended immediately or already ended after approval by the government. This bill must also pass two readings in the Riigikogu, which will also take time. So much for the law in force. The purpose of the draft is to allow faster deployment of the Estonian Defence Forces' staff officers to NATO and the European Union's military headquarters in the areas of new operations. There are several aspects to the rapid deployment of officers or officers of staff. Firstly, in the initial phase of the operation, staff officers are essential for the successful launch of the operation and the planning of activities, which is a prerequisite for the achievement of the objectives of the operation. Member States are therefore expected to make rapid contributions. Secondly, we provide Estonia with a better picture of developments related to the operation, which in turn gives us the opportunity to better plan our future activities and possible further contributions to this operation. According to § 1 (2) of the draft law, the Riigikogu, by decision, determines each year the limit of the number of members of the Defence Forces who may participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the operational area at the start of a new operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or by the European Union. The Riigikogu gives such a mandate only to participate in new operations and this does not apply to ongoing operations. Further participation, including the secondment of staff officers, shall be carried out in accordance with the general rule. This means that the Riigikogu makes a separate decision for each operation under the law. The draft decision of the Riigikogu determining the limit shall be submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic and the limit for the members of the Defence Forces shall be determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. The implementation of the new provision set out in the draft is limited to NATO and European Union operations, as the contribution to operations managed by Estonia and these organisations is also part of the decision to start new operations of these organisations, and is a priority for Estonia, which is directly due to Estonia's membership of NATO and the European Union. According to § 1 (3) of the draft, the Minister of Defence, in coordination with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, instructs the staff officers to start participating in the work of the military headquarters in the new operational area, provided that the Riigikogu has set the corresponding limit by decision. This arrangement will also be communicated without delay to the President of the Republic, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic discussed this draft on 5 January. A meeting was held and decided to support it. The National Defence Committee discussed a draft 141 initiated by it on 6 December last year before submitting it to the first reading. a meeting on 9 January. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on our agenda for the first reading today, 17 January. It was decided to choose me as rapporteur, and since the draft has been initiated by us, this is a single report. In addition, at the same session, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft law be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 31 January at 18:00, in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U10	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 141 amendments at 6 p.m. on 31 January. The first reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U11	We will move to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U12	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft, the content of which is not really new, we have not invented a bicycle here, but we are talking about restoring the so-called 'coastal support'. The school allowance started in 2001 and the system was such that every child who went to school received the so-called "panish grant' in August, which amounted to 500 kroons at the time. School support was stopped in 2008 and was caused by a budgetary crisis. Then there were promises in this Chamber that when the economy is on the rise, this support will come back. However, this has not happened. At the same time, we all know that we still have families living in difficult economic conditions. In Tallinn alone, the number of children living only from income support has increased several times. We believe that the restoration of school support is essential. The condition would be that the amount of the allowance would be the same as in the past, i.e. three times the child benefit rate, which currently amounts to EUR 28 and 77 cents. Given the number of students, how many students we have in schools, upper secondary school and vocational school based or without comprehensive school education, an additional 3.97 million euros per year would be needed. This amendment should enter into force on 1 April 2012. I ask you to support this bill, despite the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs is working on the Green Paper, but it will have to be completed for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U13	Good waitress! You have at least one question. Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U14	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have this question: has the Centre Party not thought that family allowances and all kinds of benefits could be needs-based rather than universal? Your party speaks out loud that Estonia is well polarised: there are families that can cope with themselves and there are those who really need help. Perhaps help would still be focused on those families who really need it. Perhaps this universal package allowance and sharing of other family benefits in this way is not the right place in Estonia at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U15	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U16	Maybe I'd even agree with you, but I can't speak for the Centre Party. We're all different people. I would agree with you if the support for the coast were in place now and, in this context, we would start to look at how we are improving the situation and how we are changing it. But we took that support away, and now we're talking about it so it makes sense to be needs-based. Maybe it would, but there's no support right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U17	Thank you very much. Recently, in the case of teachers' salaries, the Minister of Education promised to find these amounts in his ministry's resources. I will first ask for the amount of money, and secondly, I want to know what the source of cover you have found in the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U18	This amount is slightly less than EUR 4 million. That's what I'm talking about. As far as the source is concerned, we are not talking about this right now. We know we have a state budget accepted. We are now talking about priorities as to whether or not we are setting them. If we have a purpose, we will discuss it and we will have to find the money we need. I'm not talking about sources of cover right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U19	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U20	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I still believe that you represent the Central Party's opinion here, as the group of the Estonian Central Party is written as the initiator of the draft law. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I believe, is made up of the best people in its own party. So don't take cover! I ask once again: have you not discussed the need-based approach of all these subsidies, so that we stop this universal support? Some people just don't need support, others need it more. In this way, there would be more support for those who need it more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U21	Mr. Grief Dam! I certainly represent the Centre Party here. My comment did not mean that I represent the Reform Party, for God's sake! Actually, we've been over this. But in the current situation where children have been deprived of subsidies at all, this debate is premature, I'd say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U22	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U23	Dear waitress, I have some confusion with the concepts in this area. Remind me, please, how much child benefit is going to be!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U24	If you divide by 28.7 three, you get, I think, about eight euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U25	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U26	Thank you! Good waitress! I ask you to clarify the answer to the question of Tarmo Leinatamm. You were a little shaky about the need-based. Need-based is, in fact, a very important issue. You said that this support needs to be put in place today, but wouldn't it make sense to discuss the need-based component before we introduce something? If you're saying today's not the time to discuss this, when's the time? Are we going to introduce something and only afterwards will we discuss whether necessity is important or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U27	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U28	I am pleased to remind you, Mr Sooäär, that this debate should actually go to the Ministry of Social Affairs. They say they've been discussing it, but they've been doing it for months. I believe that one measure will not prevent the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, What do you think, if the first reading was completed, would we be willing to discuss with the Reform Party and specifically with Mr Leinatamm the rates, size, etc. of its differentiated support, or would it categorically cross our side of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U30	I can't imagine a situation where something could cross over into a debate that could create a good thing. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U31	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U32	Thank you. Honourable performer! Why don't you introduce me to that calculation moment again? 8 times 3 is 24. Specify the figures that you have said here to Mr Alli, so that we can all understand this unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U33	Thank you. I am pleased that a member of the Riigikogu noticed this. I realized I made a mistake. You see, the rate of child benefit and the amount of child benefit are not the same thing. The amount of child benefit in Estonia is known to be 19 euros. The three child benefit rates are EUR 28,77 and the amount was the same in 2001, when the grant was introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U34	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U35	Thank you. Dear waitress, You were a longtime assistant mayor of Tallinn who was responsible for the educational field. Has it been felt that support for schoolchildren in our country has been very low? As we know, families with baby children will be supported, but then this support will be lost. Has this forced many children to quit school even after graduating from primary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U36	I'm sure it is. In fact, there is a nice system in Tallinn such as paying the ranch grant with the help of the Estonian Red Cross. These lists are in great pain because the number of children who need this support is actually many times greater. The National Board of Education has also found cases that the child does not go to school because, for example, he or she has nothing to wear. This is not some fairy tale from the beginning of the last century, it is our contemporary Estonia. So, like all other children's benefits, the benefits are essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U37	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U38	Thank you! Thank you, good waitress. You answered me that discussions should be conducted within the Ministry of Social Affairs. Why do you underestimate the Riigikogu? All Estonian voters or at least those who chose to vote on election day are represented in this hall. Why should there not be a debate on necessity here? Why would this happen within the closed walls of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U39	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U40	Good questioner! I am truly sorry if you understood my reply by underestimating the Riigikogu. Not at all. But you, in turn, may be underestimating the Ministry of Social Affairs a little bit. First of all, I do not see the need for us to duplicate what they are already doing. Secondly, if the Reform Party considers it necessary to come here with this debate, it is very nice, because this is a debate behind closed doors. When we asked the Social Committee to show us the analyses on which they are based, the answer was that they were not intended to be made public. This shows that somebody decided something, wrote it down, and now it's being brought up as an argument, and the content of this argument is a secret to us. It's not quite normal. I agree with you that it would be very nice if we discussed this here, but unfortunately, this has not happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U41	Thank you. I am also a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, and I can say that very many debates are limited to the fact that the Ministry says that a green or white paper is being made. But when are these books coming? In short, they produce papers, not think about children. If you look at the development plan, everything in the development plan is very beautiful. If we were to build on the government's approved development plan, we could have an ideal state. Once again, Yana, I ask you: would it be necessary to triple child support in addition to the grant of the pack?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U42	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U43	I agree that the Ministry produces green books, and I also agree that there is a need to triple child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U44	Good manager! Waitress! The bill states: "A child who fulfils the conditions laid down in subsections 5 (1) or 5 (2) of this Act is entitled to school allowance for the start of a school year. ' What are the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2? Unfortunately, they are not in the draft, they are in the amending law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U45	Thank you, good questioner! I'm gonna start browsing my papers now. But let's look at the explanatory statement. It discusses children who study in general education schools, either in comprehensive school or in upper secondary school. When a child is studying in primary school, it is clear that he or she is going to school on 1 September, which in turn means that his or her parents should receive this support in August. When we talk about an upper secondary school student, the school lists are expected or the social worker is shown the child's student ticket and this allowance is paid out later. When we talk about vocational school, there is the same system again: we wait for the lists and depending on whether or not the child is studying, he or she will receive support or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U46	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, While you are on the remote, do you in principle agree with the approach of supporting those in need of support and assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U48	I would rather say that it might not be possible to support those who do not need support, but children in the Estonian country will no doubt need support, and I think that everything is without exception.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U49	Good waitress! Thank you! No further questions. Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft law 127 on 9 January. Most of the members of the Commission attended the meeting, while two were absent. Specialists in this field were invited from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Yana Toom, as representative of the initiator, presented a draft aimed at restoring the annual payment of one-year school allowance, which was terminated on the basis of the Victim Assistance Act adopted in 2008 and the Act amending other laws. The Government of the Republic has analysed the views of the draft and has not supported the draft. This is mainly because there is a need to analyse all possible subsidy and service schemes in order to best target them specifically at risk groups. That's what they asked about in this hall today. The government plans to carry out an analysis of the family benefits scheme by 2014 and to draw up a concept as a result. It was decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu for first reading on 17 January. The proposal to terminate the first reading was in favour of 4 and was opposed by 5 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. With this vote, it was decided to reject the draft at first reading. Mr Rein Aidma was appointed as rapporteur for the Commission's report. It was therefore decided to refer the draft law to 127 plenary sessions in a consensual manner and to reject it at first reading by 5 votes in favour and 4 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U51	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Can you tell us why the majority of committee members decided not to proceed with this draft? The previous rapporteur, Ms Toom, pointed out quite well-founded arguments that this issue was very important and it would be reasonable to continue discussing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U53	Thank you for your question. The Ministry is planning to develop a full support scheme and better target those who really need it and probably provide them with more aid, which is currently not even possible for everyone to receive the same or universal subsidies. This is one argument, in addition to the fact that there is no grant of nearly EUR 4 million in the 2012 state budget, which is not included in the budget. We await the proposals of the Ministry and only then can we make decisions on need-based family benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U54	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I wonder where the coalition has confirmed a mantra that is constantly repeated, that there is an awful need for analysis to restore any support. But if support is withdrawn, there will be no word for analysis. Gone and gone! Now the Ministry is running and analyzing again. Your esteemed partymate also asked why we should not discuss this in this Chamber why the Ministry has to analyse. My question, too, is: why can't we discuss here, instead of waiting for an analysis behind closed doors, should we not restore this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U56	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U57	Thank you. I will stick to what has been discussed in the Commission's response. On the one hand, the 2012 budget does not provide for these funds. Secondly, the Commission's debate, including the Ministry's pointing out, had the most effective argument that we should target subsidies where they are needed more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U58	Thank you. Good colleague! If we go back to the Commission's debate, we remember reading the government's position there, which said, '2009. In 2004, the school allowance was terminated by an analysis which suggests that the reduction in the school allowance was the least detrimental to the daily subsistence of the families. ' When my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, asked the ministry's representative if this analysis could be consulted, the answer was no. Maybe you've succeeded in the meantime. If you came to this remote and defended this position, I assume you should have looked into this analysis first.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U59	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U60	Thank you. I will read the following sentence from the Ministry's reply: 'We find it unnecessary to even consider re-establishing school allowance before considering other measures and offering different solutions to families. ' So let's wait for that result.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U61	Thank you. Good waitress, good colleague! You said that the government would develop measures to implement needs-based support by 2014. Does it really take two years to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U62	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U63	Thank you for your question. Yes, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the state budget must also make it possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, in the Committee on Social Affairs, a representative of the Ministry gave a very thorough overview of the problem. The data on which they were based when deciding to end the grant were answered as working material. I agree with my colleague Imre Sooääre, who said that we should not underestimate the Riigikogu. Should we not, however, discuss this issue? Perhaps the Reform Party is willing to discuss this issue as a key national issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U65	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U66	Thank you, good questioner! This topic was not considered by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U67	Dear waitress, As we have heard, a full support scheme will be completed, i.e. a government concept by 2014. Do you really think, as a national envoy elected from Ida-Viru County, that it is fair that, in three years' time, those who need it will not receive help, i.e. those who need it more, I quote you yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U68	Thank you. In this context, we did not discuss this issue in the Commission. But once again, it is only possible to pay grants if there are financial means to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U69	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U70	Thank you. Honourable performer! When this cut was made a few years ago, they said that the public finances were fine, but cuts had to be made. Indeed, they were made for decades, promising that all of this would be temporary. Now we see that this was not even done to help the state budget, but to find a good moment to withdraw these subsidies and to perpetuate these principles. I ask you: how do parents in your constituency feel about the school grant being taken away? I can say that this is very often asked in my constituency and asked when it will come back.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U71	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U72	I am sorry, but we did not discuss this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U73	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In 2008, when the budget did not carry out all expenditure, cuts were made. Cuts were just made at the expense of children, which is very unfortunate. Now you are saying that this whole concept will achieve results in 2014. It'll take six years. Can you tell us why the government sets priorities? This year, the amount of defence expenditure was very powerfully increased. Where do you get proof that it is right to increase the amount of school allowance only when the state budget expenditure is paid out? How does the government set priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U74	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in this form in the Commission, but I will say it again: we can only pay what the budget allows. For this to happen, it is precisely needs-based calculations that need to be made, exactly as planned in the Ministry. Then the support for those who need it most will also come back. That is what we discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U75	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U76	Thank you. Good waitress! It seems to me that we are having such a classic debate here today, where the kind opposition allows us to multiply one or another of the social benefits during the debate, without saying at the same time, at the expense of what kind of tax to raise or what kind of reduction in the expenditure of the state budget. It seems to me that many members of the coalition would be willing to increase social benefits in Estonia if it were only feasible for the state and if only the initiators of the draft would be honest about where we are taking this money. Did the Committee on Social Affairs discuss that for any such draft, which has significant financial consequences and which, by its very nature, may be very positive, but is very costly, the initiator should also have provided the source from which to take the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U77	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U78	Thank you. Yes, good questioner, I agree with you basically. Once again, I can only answer what was being said in the committee. Of course, the author of the bill in the Commission strongly supported this issue. He suggested that we in the Committee on Social Affairs should only make a political decision, but where the money is taken is a matter for another committee. Of course, the Commission could not accept this view. But yes, the source, the honourable questioner, was not presented to us at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I was surprised that the Ministry did not provide information in response to the Commission's question. Hence my question: how did the Commission agree to this? This information is not a state secret. Such situations may also arise in the future, especially in the social field, when information is not very pretty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U80	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U81	Thank you for your question. I repeat the sentence submitted by the Ministry to the Commission, which was available to the members of the Commission during the sitting and is also available to everyone today. It sounds literally like this: '2009. In 2004, the school allowance was terminated by an analysis which suggests that the reduction in the school allowance was the least detrimental to the daily subsistence of the families. " It goes on to mention what had been mentioned earlier that it would be restored after a concept has been developed to better target subsidies and services at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U82	Good waitress! I repeat my question and ask, if possible, either yes or no. Have you seen with your own eyes the analysis to which the government refers in its reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U83	Thank you. I can repeat the same sentence of the opinion issued by the Ministry, which states what has been relied on: the withdrawal of this grant is a one-off grant, I repeat once again the least damaging to families.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U84	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U85	Thank you. Good waitress! There was a lot of talk about the source of cover, where to find the source of cover and how to solve this problem. It is customary to try to find a source of cover in the area we are talking about, in this case in the social field. As we know, the number of births last year was significantly reduced and, as far as I am concerned, there was a lot of money left out of the amounts planned for parental pay. It is feared that the hope of the number of births of this year will not be fulfilled either, as emigration is great. Can't this money be used for children's food?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U86	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U87	Thank you for your question. We did not talk about children's food or parental benefits at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U88	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I liked the question of Mr Taavi Clothes. He said that by introducing or restoring social benefits, we should monitor where these sums come from. You say that the government is preparing for the development of targeted social benefits and that money will be found for this. Aren't you lying to us and yourself? After all, the Reform Party has committed to reducing the personal income tax rate by 1% again in 2014 or 2015. Isn't that literally blowing our eyes off?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U89	Thank you. We are all doing politics, but this issue was not discussed in the Commission. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U90	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns Part IV of the explanatory memorandum 'The effects of the law and the costs necessary for implementation'. Would you like to clarify whether the number of basic education-based vocational students is still 581? Is that the right number?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U92	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U93	Thank you. We did not check these figures in the Commission. I can only refer here to the author. It's a question of the accuracy of his sources. Once again, we did not check these accounts in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U94	Thank you. Honourable performer! What do you think will ultimately cost the country to identify who needs this support specifically and who does not? What do you base on, income alone, family wealth or something else? How easy is this identification and how much more will it cost compared to the amounts paid for school support a few years ago? I also ask you where you take the conviction that losing this essential support for children and families, which was paid on 1 September, is the least painful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U95	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U96	The only answer to the first part of the question is that we did not have it in the debate in the Commission. But all the questions you have raised are likely to be taken up in the document being developed by the Ministry. With regard to the cessation of the so-called "coastal aid', the assessment of the termination of this one-off subsidy is precisely what the Ministry has pointed out: it is the least detrimental to the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U97	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Listening to your answers came up with two facts. Firstly, many important things you did not discuss in the Commission at all. Secondly, it sounded like the state could only make the costs for which it had the money. That is absolutely the right principle. Only if we take a closer look at the matter can we see that, for example, the state has money to pay parental benefit at three times the average wage, but there is no money to pay school allowance, the salary of members of the Riigikogu is increased, but the salary of teachers is not increased. Do you think such an approach is objective or subjective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U98	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U99	Thank you, dear questioner. I must say again that, from this point of view, we did not discuss these issues in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U100	But did you analyse it, for example, that if, in one case, the country supports the family with a parental benefit of EUR 2 000 and, in the other case, the child is sent to school by a single mother who earns EUR 700, then which family child really needs more state support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U101	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U102	Thank you, dear questioner. That is precisely the question that we are trying to find an answer to with the hard work of ministerial officials so that the one who needs it most can get help. This was also indirectly the subject of a debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U103	Thank you! Here's the question. You may not have discussed this in the committee, but are the members of the committee aware of the percentage of children living in Estonia below the limit of absolute poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U104	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U105	Thank you for your question. This answer is, of course, there, but we did not link it to the debate on the draft in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U106	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The current coalition has been ruling for almost five years in turn. In the field of child benefits, on the basis of your report, you have reached a fundamental conclusion that it would be necessary to deal with other measures and other solutions. Did you discuss in the committee how many more needs-based Riigikogu membership would be needed to ensure that the right parties reach other measures and different solutions in the field of child benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U107	Thank you for the irony question. But the answer is what I have said before: we are developing a scheme of grants so that the aid can get exactly where it is most needed. This scheme shall apply as soon as it is financially possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U108	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U109	Thank you. Good waitress! Unfortunately, questions are becoming more and more out of the question, and they are becoming more and more spiteful. I'm trying to get back to the subject. I am pleased that at least some of the opposition have made this debate a little more honest and pointed out where they think the money might be taken away, which is probably the price of this change. But I'm asking about the initiators. The party of the Centre Party is the initiator of the draft, and the faction of the Centre Party has said both in the Commission and in the Chamber that it is none of their business where this money is taken from. I have a fundamental question: is making kind, but unprotected promises a sign of care, or is it rather a sign of politicalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U110	Thank you. Of course, we did not discuss this in the Commission from this point of view, but my personal opinion is that if we do not want to do what is customary in some of the problem Member States of the European Union, including the eurozone, then only responsible decisions can be made on the basis of which we can pay what we can afford from the budget. This is also the basis for the Commission's decision, which is why we reject the initiators' proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U111	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U112	Thank you. Good waitress! Your answers gave me the impression that the debate in the committee was quite incomplete, as you did not discuss very many important issues. Do you not think it would make sense to continue discussing these outstanding and undisputed issues within the Commission, for example, between first and second readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U113	Thank you. We discussed this draft in committee just as much as we answered the questions of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U114	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that the Commission is aware of the number of children living below the poverty line in Estonia. Please tell me what percentage this is for the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U116	Thank you. That percentage does indeed exist, but we did not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U117	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U118	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm gonna start with a reply about the performance of the Taavi Clothes. He ran out of the hall, probably making a press release. This practice of initiating a draft law and saying that the cover must be found somewhere else has emerged in this Chamber as an initiative of the Reform Party. For example, when it was decided to abolish land tax, it was said that the municipalities themselves would look at the amounts they would cover. This question is still open, even though the law has been passed. But speaking of the matter, you also gave a substantive answer to some of the questions. You said that it was justified to lose the grant because it was the least detrimental to the beneficiaries. We still know quite a lot of benefits for children and parents, which have been lost. For example, a parent's right to a paid day of illness is lost if the child becomes ill. Please indicate which subsidies for children were more appropriate to maintain, which generate expenditure on the state budget and which was maintained at the expense of abolishing the subsidy for the ranch.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U119	Thank you. These benefits are all found on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, in the Commission we did not discuss these issues from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U120	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I still want to ask you a question. There are definitely families in Estonia who do not need such state support. I am thinking of the wealthier people who really do not need this country's support. The same question was put to the initiator of the draft in this Chamber. The initiator of the bill failed to reply, he gave a circular answer. In the Commission, did you ask the initiator whether he considered it necessary to support their families and what the initiator of the draft replied to you in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U122	Thank you. This question was not asked exactly by the initiator, but, given the entire logic of the drafters, it is clear that it was still intended as outright support, i.e. support for all and not targeted support. Why did the Commission take the position not to support this draft in this form? The Commission considered that needs-based support should be used. It is precisely because the draft provides for support in kind, that this draft has been assessed negatively.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U123	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U124	Thank you. Dear waitress, I understand that there was such a situation in your committee that it was considered that the group of the Centre Party was the initiator of the draft, and then the majority of the committee decided that you were essentially not discussing anything. After all, the vast majority of your answers are that you did not discuss this, the second or the third, and that the Riigikogu does not have to discuss this issue because the government may never discuss it, and this is not a Riigikogu matter at all. Did I now put together a debate in committee, or can you add something substantive to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U125	Thank you. That the Centre Party has submitted a draft, we can see that, and that is what we saw in the Commission. But as far as the substantive debate is concerned, it will, yes, indeed, then, if we have a new scheme for establishing such subsidies. Then we will also discuss these matters in the context of the new draft in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U126	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U127	Thank you. People's ambassador! Listening to your responses to my colleagues, I had the impression that the views of the Reform Party were all discussed in the committee, that others were being discussed in the way that happened, and that some opinions were not discussed at all. What was it about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U128	Thank you, dear questioner. We have just discussed the issues that were raised within the framework of the 127th draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U129	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! You said a lot about how you guys are gonna do it, and soon the ministry is gonna do it, and somebody's gonna do it, and somebody's gonna do it, but despite listening very attentively, I didn't hear you say any deadlines. Does the coalition and the ministry have some sort of rudeness set out for what time something will be done in concrete terms, or is there just going to be discussed and allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U131	Thank you, my good colleague. The answer is that according to the plans currently put forward by the Ministry, this will be the next year of 2014, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U132	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did the Social Democrats in the Commission also put forward any positions that could have been discussed in depth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U134	Thank you. I have to admit, I didn't. Only the initiator's proposals, which the initiator sought to justify, were under discussion. There were no other proposals from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U135	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed that 127 proposals be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 54 votes for and 40 against, no abstentions. Draft 127 Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U136	We move to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to determine the circumstances surrounding the granting of residence permits, submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour for me to be before you to present the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by two political groups, concerning the formation of the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry to determine the circumstances surrounding the granting of residence permits. Our aim is to set up a Riigikogu Research Committee, consisting of four members of the Riigikogu, including four alternate members, to determine the granting of residence permits and the related circumstances. What should be the Commission's tasks? The tasks are: identifying the circumstances surrounding the granting of residence permits in Estonia, identifying the circumstances relating to the change of the limit of residence permits in Estonia, identifying possible political corruption and influence trade in residence permits and increasing the quota, improving independence and transparency between institutions investigating the granting of residence permits, making proposals to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic as a result of the work, monitoring the activities of the Government of the Republic relating to the determination of the circumstances relating to the granting of residence permits. The aim would be to identify the three levels of circumstances, which are political, strategic and executive, or, figuratively speaking, counter-level. The committee of inquiry shall have the right to summon persons and to request the information and documents necessary for the performance of its duties. The person invited is obliged to appear, provide explanations and answer the Commission's questions. In the event of an infringement or any circumstances giving rise to such an infringement, the Commission shall be obliged to forward the material to the appropriate authorities. I would like to emphasise once again that we are not going to aim for the work of this committee to have someone convicted or suspected, but rather to identify the facts and make the decisions and proposals that result from them. The Commission shall inform the public of the facts explained in the course of its work. Data and circumstances whose disclosure is limited in accordance with the provisions in force shall be made public within the time limits and in accordance with the procedures laid down therein. The deadline for the Commission to act could be a year, but the aim should certainly be for an interim report to be made at the end of the spring session and, if good, for the final report to be made at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U138	Good waitress! You have at least one question. Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U139	Thank you. I still do not understand what a miracle you expect or expect from this committee. Will its competence be much greater than that of Estonia's special research institutions? Are you questioning the research results of the Estonian research institutions that you will have to check them again? Evelyn Sepp, who is no longer present in the Riigikogu, dealt with Estonia's doom. Have you also discovered a path for yourself to travel from election to election?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U140	In particular, the institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior are meant here; secondly, the Ministry of the Interior and thirdly the Riigikogu. This so-called Committee of Inquiry could be the one who can unite all these different institutions and accept proposals from them, listen to them and simply take them all together at one table.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U141	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U142	Thank you! Good waitress! Since this topic has been deeply concerned with the collective sense of justice in Estonia, it is certainly worth examining, but a committee in this house is already working on this issue. What is the main difference between the work of the Commission being set up and that of the Commission already in existence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U143	Thank you for a good question. It is a substantive question in this sense that there really is a Committee on Corruption that has done a good job. You have certainly heard the results of this work. However, the competence of the Corruption Committee is limited in that its work is primarily aimed at controlling declarations of economic interests and supervising the restrictions on the place of work and activities of a member of the Riigikogu. The Committee of Inquiry, which is to be set up, would have a much broader competence. Furthermore, the Committee of Inquiry has the right to force people to come to the Commission by trial, but the Committee of Corruption does not have that right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U144	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U145	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Peep Aru, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable speaker! You spoke about giving the Committee on Corruption an extra capacity and said that the Committee on Corruption had no competence. I didn't understand if you put an equal sign between competence and ability. Did you discuss whether any Riigikogu commission would be able to conduct this investigation? It's just a matter of time and the will to investigate. Why, for example, could the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not, if they so wish, similarly examine it? Why was there a halfway point to deciding that investigative competence and capacity should be extended to the Committee on Corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U147	Thank you. There were no two words in the Commission: competence and will. In the Commission, the decision to establish a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act, adopted by the Riigikogu and setting out the tasks of the committee, was analysed in a clear and clear manner. The functions of the committee of inquiry, as they have been written by the drafters, do not overlap. The Corruption Commission does not have competence under the current Decision. This is not about not wanting. I am absolutely certain that all members of the Committee on Corruption are willing to do their job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U148	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Kajar Lemberi, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U149	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, discussing the draft decision of the opposition's committee of inquiry was quite a touch of borders. Several members had the will to forget this issue and bury it, but since the subject is still so sensitive in the public, there is no way to be against it with a loud voice. This is often the case in consensus politics: painful but beautiful, and also fair. The proposal by the Central Party and the Social Democratic Party Group to set up a committee of inquiry to find out the circumstances surrounding the granting of residence permits is nothing unprecedented in this Chamber. Committees of inquiry have been carried out before, and we fear that we will not get away with this in the future. The draft decision sees the Committee of Inquiry as one of its tasks to identify possible political corruption and leverage trading in relation to the issue of residence permits and quota increases. The Commission, which would include representatives of all political groups, would have the right to invite persons before it and to request the information and documents necessary for the performance of its tasks. According to the Social Democrats, the Ministry of the Interior cannot itself investigate the activities of the Minister of the Interior and his party associates. We hope that Parliament's large hall will support the creation of this committee in order to ensure a thorough and impartial examination of the circumstances surrounding the trade in residence permits and the increase in immigration quotas. The Commission in relation to the granting of residence permits should determine whether influence was exercised in the trading of residence permits and who were the ultimate beneficiaries. It is also precisely the committee of inquiry in this House that is able to evaluate the activities of the ministers involved in the subject. The all-knowing Prime Minister also thought that it would be handled by the Riigikogu Corruption Committee, and the matter would be clear. There has been a lot of talk here about the competence of the Corruption Commission. Indeed, this committee could determine the legitimacy of the declarations of financial interests of the members of the Riigikogu, and it will certainly do so, but that is where its powers are limited. This debate has, of course, been useful, because I hope we will soon come to the understanding in this Chamber that the mandate of the Committee on Corruption should also be extended. But that's not today's thing. Today's topic is that the scandal on residence permits in Estonia is an unprecedented case, which clearly damaged the state's reputation. All political groups and, of course, politicians outside this house should do everything they can to ensure that society learns from it. However, this clearly requires that all circumstances be in the light of day. I very much hope that the delegates sitting in this hall will press the green button, because otherwise we can say again that we wanted the best, but it turned out as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U150	Good waitress! There's a question for you. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U151	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 149 amendments on 23 January 2012 at 10 a.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.26 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U152	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I'm the person who doesn't believe in miracles, I believe in people first and foremost. The other part is that maybe even nobody thinks things aren't going to happen objectively, but the important thing is that it all seems objective. When we talk about the need to clarify the facts on three levels, the highest level is the neutral committee of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu, where all the political groups are represented. One person from each political group would be a member of this committee, a total of four members. The aim should be to clarify objective circumstances, not to rely on miracles.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U153	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U154	Thank you, good President. Good Kalle! I believe in people, too. I have no doubt that you're a constructive person, and I agree with what you said in the morning interview, that by midsummer it should be clear that there's nothing to do here for a year. My question concerns Commission function 4. The Commission's role is to cooperate between the institutions investigating the granting of residence permits in order to increase independence and transparency. What institutions are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U155	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I believe you're a very objective and very honest person. Did you not come up with such an idea to include the problems of some of your groupmates in the work of this committee? Neither Mr. Iron nor Mr. Stelmach have been accused so far, not even questioned, but people sitting in the same line as you who have already been questioned. A member of the Riigikogu who has been elected from South Estonia has even said in the Evening Paper that he deals with the trading of influence every day. Should these issues not be included in the Commission's tasks, so it would be a little more equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U156	First of all, one particular case is dealt with by the Defence Police Department with the Public Prosecutor's Office; there is an investigation. If we look specifically at residence permits and circumstances, it is not really possible to identify these facts or to investigate them in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U157	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U158	As I understand it, the only idea for this committee to be set up is that, in the office of the current Minister for the Interior, doubts arise as to the objectivity of the investigation. I have doubts about the same point 4. You said you wanted to work with our investigative bodies. I would remind you that Richard Nixon did not cooperate with the U.S. Congress, but the U.S. Congress invited him to testify. How do you guarantee that the investigative bodies will not influence it, but will understand that they will be controlled?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U159	Thanks for the question, Igor. I don't think anyone in this life can ever guarantee anything. We can orient our actions so that these things don't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U160	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. The nature of this problem, which the Commission will have to examine, is a suspicion that fictitious fixed-term residence permits for business have been issued. But the term 'fictionary' means that false statements have been submitted to the authority. This is, by its very nature, a criminal law area. How can the Commission find out the truth about criminal law if the Commission does not have the right to deal with criminal proceedings? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U162	With your question, you have already answered the question. Indeed, the Commission does not have criminal procedural rights. However, as I explained in the introduction, in the event that the Commission has doubts that there may be criminal offences, these materials will be communicated to the law enforcement authorities to deal with objective criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U163	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable speaker! In the Committee on Corruption yesterday, Mr Kabrits answered the questions. The common position of the Committee on Corruption was that Siim Kabritsa had no connection with the hoarding of residence permits. If a new Commission is now being set up, do you think it should take into account the conclusions of the Committee on Corruption or will it start over again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U165	Thank you for your question. I would like to emphasise once again that the aim of this committee is to clarify the facts, not to suspect and prosecute persons. The Committee on Corruption has done a great deal of work and the conclusions of the Committee on Corruption are certainly inputs to this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U166	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U167	There are no free lunches, and every Commission job costs something, including the taxpayer. When planning your work, have you also taken into account the fact that perhaps there is a need or opportunity for our colleagues, former members of the parliament, politicians who have been investigators, justice staff, etc., to be included in the work of this committee as experts, witnesses, etc., in any way, or there is no need? I will continue on the subject on which Mr Sõerd began. There are also very serious legal problems here, and this may require expertise from outside. I'm just developing the idea that Aivar left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U168	Yes, I agree that the law allows us, when this committee is set up, to involve experts and to commission experts. In this sense, the powers of the Committee of Inquiry are quite powerful. I agree that the effectiveness and speed of the Commission's work will certainly depend on who the political groups decide to work in this committee. I hope that the Commission, when it is set up, will be objective, effective and produce results that meet our expectations. I bow to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who actually unanimously agreed that the first reading of this draft decision should be completed today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U169	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U170	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to specify Erki Arrow's question. I read in the press release that in the case of Siim Kabritsa, the Corruption Commission did not find that it had a material benefit from these transactions. I think that the fact that there is a new Commission in the process of being set up is proof of your stated statement that your powers are much wider, because being involved in some kind of activity can also be quite different. This does not necessarily mean gaining material benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U171	Thank you for your question. I really hope that this Commission, when it is set up, will want to highlight and be able to do so all the things that interest us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-17_U172	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed this draft at our meeting on 10 January. In addition to the members and alternates of the committee, guests were also present: the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu, Andres Anvelt, the Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Erkki Koort, and the Head of the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Ruth Annus. The whole Commission debate could be divided into three parts. Firstly, we heard the explanations of the drafters. The explanations were provided by Kalle Laane, Kajar Lember and Indrek Saar. I am not going to go over this because the presentation of the drafters has just ended. There were no differences between what was said in the Commission and what was said here. Secondly, we listened to what has been done to identify the circumstances surrounding the granting of residence permits. First of all, Mr Anvelt spoke about the work of the so-called Special Committee on Corruption. In summing up his statement, it can be said that at the end of last year the Committee on Corruption started a verification of the declarations of financial interests of the persons involved in the case, which were carried out in greater depth than usual. Control of possible infringements of operating and workplace restrictions has also started, extending it to the control of operating restrictions. Under the definition of operating restrictions, possible conflicts of interest are also examined for these two members of the Riigikogu. At this point in time, nothing has been discovered on the basis of declarations of economic interest which would indicate that data is being withheld. The chairman of the committee also said that making a business object of residence permits is a much wider problem and an area that needs intervention at the level of executive power, in addition to the legislator's intervention. The competence of the Corruption Committee ends with an assessment of the activities of the members of the Riigikogu. He added that it was important to assess whether the political process at executive level in this case was legitimate. Most of the six tasks set out in the draft decision setting up the committee of inquiry fall within the evaluation of the activities of the executive authority and cannot be resolved within the current remit of the Committee on Corruption. Erkki Koort noted that the Ministry of the Interior is monitoring the surveillance of the problem from the point of view of the supervision of the system in use in the Police and Border Guard Board. It is likely that, in the course of the official supervision, proposals will be made to improve the organisation of work and that input will be provided to develop a draft law amending the Aliens Act in order to organise the area if necessary. Ruth Annus added that the Police and Border Guard Board had received an order to review all residence permits issued on the basis of the 2011 limit. It is expected to be completed by the end of January this year at the latest. A thorough follow-up of residence permits obtained on the basis of the corresponding quota numbers shall be carried out, which should be completed by the end of January. Service supervision should come to an end in the near future, either this week or next week, so that, in January, business supervision and internal supervision will in principle be completed. So much for what's been done. It was also mentioned that the declarations of economic interests, in their current form, are obviously not perfect and leave much to be desired. During this year, a new version of the Anti-Corruption Act will probably arrive at the Riigikogu. It will then be seen whether, as a result of our collective work, the declarations of economic interests can also be shaped so that they can be more helpful in combating corruption. The third part of the Commission's discussion ended with the adoption of the Decision. The debate on the examination of the circumstances surrounding the issue of residence permits was such that all members of the Commission felt that clarity was needed here. How can we create clarity? We discussed carefully whether the option proposed by the drafters, the Committee of Inquiry, or whether it would be possible to investigate the matter with the help of the so-called Special Committee on Corruption. Overall, we concluded that the competence of the Committee on Corruption does not allow the objectives set out in the draft for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to be achieved. We did consider it necessary for the future so that we could review the principles of the work of the Corruption Committee in the Riigikogu. If we think that this is necessary, we could extend this Commission's competence so that it should not always start setting up committees of inquiry, because every new Commission requires resources, both financial and human resources. It was also discussed that, if the current working principles of the Committee on Corruption do not allow for such a broad examination, perhaps it would be right to extend the mandate of the Committee on Corruption in the course of this case. But in the end, the consensus made such a decision that the draft decision to set up the committee of inquiry should be sent to the first reading of the grand chamber of the Riigikogu and the first reading stopped. We were also discussing how long the work of the Committee of Inquiry could last. I think we have found a consensus that, in any case, the duration of the work of the Committee of Inquiry should be limited. I believe that during the preparation of the second reading, we will also find a reasonable deadline within the Commission so that it becomes clear specifically and that questions of interest to society can be answered quickly so that there is no long yawning or stretching. In addition, it was decided that the deadline for submitting amendments should be set at 10 a.m. on 23 January. As I said, the decisions that the reading should take place today, the first reading should be closed, I would be the rapporteur, and the deadline for submitting amendments would be as I said above, in consensus. Thank you.
