ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 17th working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have a draft decision of the Riigikogu proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop an action plan to reduce advertising and sales of energy drinks for children and young people and to raise awareness of the health of children and adolescents. We consider it very important to raise awareness among both children and young parents of the possible side effects of energy drinks. At present, advertising promoting energy drinks and information on how these products can affect children's and young people's behaviour are not balanced. The main consumers of energy drinks in Estonia are becoming young people, as well as children, for whom the energy drink has become as common as lemonade. Several experts consider these drinks to be dangerous for children because...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U3	Good colleagues, quiet in the hall, please. Let's honor the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U4	... children's nervous system isn't sufficiently advanced yet. The energy drink is calculated per kilogram of body weight, so the lower the weight, the greater the full effect of the bottle. Several Estonian pediatricians believe that the sale of energy drinks should be restricted especially in children's sports events and school buffets. In some cases, excessive consumption of energy drinks has even been considered to be the cause of sudden death syndrome. Due to the negative impact on children and young people, the sale of energy drinks to children is prohibited in France, Ireland, Sweden and Denmark. In Norway, energy drinks can only be sold in pharmacies, and Finland has established a procedure for energy drinks to bear a special mark. According to our proposal, the Government of the Republic should, by 1 June 2013, develop a plan to limit and reduce the consumption of energy drinks by children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U5	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. I now announce that the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the regional minister Siim-Valmar Kiisler. Please, good colleagues, let's have a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U6	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote on the draft. I will put draft 212 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. Draft 212 Act amending the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U7	We will move to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let's start preparing for the final vote. I will put the bill 220 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. Bill 220 of the Law amending the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U8	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 228 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. The draft Law 228 amending the Law on Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Monetary Commission, has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U9	Let us move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is an overview of judicial order, justice and uniform application of laws. The rapporteur is the President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, whom I have the honour of welcoming in this Chamber. But before I, a good waitress, give you the floor, let me briefly present the procedure for discussing the item on the agenda. First, the presentation of the President of the Supreme Court is up to 30 minutes, following questions to the waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur one oral question and negotiations will begin after that. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! On the basis of § 27 (3) of the Law on Courts, the President of the Supreme Court gives the parliament an annual overview of the organisation of the court in Estonia, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the laws. Today's presentation has made a choice of problems that need to be discussed and resolved by the judicial authorities in cooperation with the legislator and the executive. Last year's presentation focused on civil procedure, the keywords of which were high state fees, service of court documents and reasonable period of proceedings. Today's presentation will focus more on the areas of law during the administrative procedure. The emphasis of the presentation has been discussed in the court administration council on 25 May this year, so it can be said that the presentation brings not the rapporteur but, above all, the concerns and problems of the judiciary to the Riigikogu. First of all, look back on last year's proposals. Last spring's review included two fundamental proposals: harmonising the standard of service of judicial documents in civil and administrative court proceedings and bringing the rates of state fees into line with the Constitution and in line with the standard of living in Estonia. The realization of this proposal could be said: the end is good, all good. Parliament dealt with the state fees and the amendment to civil and administrative proceedings of Bill 206, which was passed as a law yesterday. As regards state fees, the Act should enter into force on 1 July 2012. However, it should not be noted that 3.5 years were in a situation where many provisions of the State Fees Act were in conflict with the Constitution. The Supreme Court drew the legislator's attention to the unconstitutional situation for the first time in 2009. The final decisions have not yet come up and more than a dozen constitutional review courts come together on the same subject. The Supreme Court cannot take the place of the legislator and examine the constitutionality of every provision of the Tax Act in a particular case. A more general, fundamental question arises unwittingly: who is responsible for enforcing the decisions of the Constitutional Court? Who is responsible for the implementation of the Constitution if Parliament ignores the decisions of the Constitutional Court for years? On the one hand, the massive expression of constitutional norms in one law refers to the poor quality of the law, but not only. This undermines the credibility of the entire legal system and reduces the compliance of individuals with the law. This reduces the credibility of the entire legal system because people want to challenge the law first or worse, to circumvent it. In order not to limit myself to describing and criticising the situation, I would like to make a proposal to the Riigikogu, which could contribute to the enforcement of constitutional review of judicial decisions, thus ordering the legal system. The Riigikogu could consider discussing any constitutional review decision at least at the level of the relevant committee in order to take a position in good time on the necessary legislative changes. Now, about the workload of the courts and the accelerated procedure. Traditionally, the report is accompanied by an overview of last year's judicial statistics, which allows for independent interpretation. (This is Annex 1) In short, I will mention just a few statistical indicators, which in general characterise the work of the courts in 2011. While the number of court inquiries in previous years showed a steady upward trend, when comparing 2011 statistics with 2010 figures, it has to be concluded that complaints and applications were addressed to the Court in all types of proceedings, with the exception of criminal proceedings, by 10 to 15% less. However, far-reaching conclusions about a reduction in legal conflicts or an increase in compliance in society should not be drawn from these figures, because we do not know exactly why recourse to justice has decreased to protect our rights. The period under review is too short to draw serious conclusions. It is also not yet possible to assess the extent to which anti-constitutional state fees prevented recourse to the courts. It is worth pointing out that the reduction in the number of complaints and applications of 10 to 15% has not reduced the actual workload of the courts, since, instead of the usual up to ten vacant judges, almost 20 posts of judges had been continuously vacant in the year. The following figures illustrate the price at which a more robust work has been achieved. In 2011, each judge who decides the civil cases of Harju County Court wrote 455 judgments or orders, i.e. 1.2 decisions requiring legal analysis and justification, on a calendar rather than a working day. How much is involved in this pace of work is the question of each judge and court official's talent and ability to work. It is the duty of the State to ensure that the trial functions smoothly. Looking at the statistical average of the length of the proceedings, it can be confirmed that last year the first instance of the judicial system, i.e. rural and administrative courts, was worked faster than last year. In both civil and criminal proceedings, proceedings have been shortened over the last five years, but there is a slight increase in the length of proceedings in administrative courts. (This is shown in Annex 2.) The ambitious legal policy objective set by the government coalition that judicial proceedings should not last for more than 100 days at any stage of the court has not been statistically reached at any instance of the court. On average, the general procedure leads to a resolution in criminal matters within three times the time limit, 346 days, a private dispute can be resolved within an average of 164 days, and an administrative dispute with the State takes an average of 142 days. Reiterating what was said in last year's report, I would stress that speeding up procedures is undoubtedly the right goal and a boldly set goal to reach the 100-day average. There's no point in criticizing it. The speeding up of judicial proceedings, if this does not adversely affect the quality of judicial proceedings, is justified. As a positive trend, it should be pointed out that by the end of the year the balance of unsolved things has started to shrink steadily. At the same time, there are more and more messages from different colleges of the Supreme Court that the quality of judgments has started to decline. There are more frequent errors which lead to the annulment of an increasing number of decisions and to a new round of proceedings, i.e. to a new court of first instance or second instance. In most cases, the total duration of the proceedings is out of the scope of a reasonable period of time. The current statistics of the courts are primarily aimed at monitoring the reasonable duration of proceedings, but the need for more precise statistics, which would also reflect the quality of the case-law, is obvious. It is equally obvious that there is a need to analyse how the ever-increasing procedure affects the legal certainty of judicial decisions, which ultimately can lead to an unintended increase not only in the length of the proceedings, but also discredit the authority of justice as a whole. A person seeking the protection of his or her rights is, unfortunately, only interested in the length of the whole court, not in the speed of proceedings at one or the other instance. Too much haste and superficiality is evil. Next issue: innovations leading to faster legal proceedings. The Ministry of Justice, whose jurisdiction includes the administration of courts of first and second instance, considers the judicial system to be a fundamental achievement of an ever shorter period of proceedings. Here are two examples of the day-to-day administration of courts in 2007-2012. The first of these concerns the financing of the courts. The state budget allocates a fixed amount of money to the work of the courts, the largest item of expenditure being personnel costs. If the Minister of Justice fails to fill nearly 20 judges' posts throughout the year, the staffing costs of vacant posts will be made up of a so-called reserve of courts, which the Ministry of Justice will use at its discretion to finance the judicial system (data can be found in Annex 3 to the report). For example, in 2012, the Minister thought of a reserve for the Courts budget of just over EUR 1.6 million, which is to be planned, I stress! To train officials, pay the remuneration of judges, test the new information system and train its users, also test the land register and the business register information system. All this with the money for personnel costs! This appropriation was intended to cover the costs of the conference on the celebration of the 15th anniversary of the institution of judicial assistance, for example. It should be noted that one judge's position represents a cost to the state budget of approximately EUR 60000 per year. Since 2008, the Ministry of Justice, under the leadership of the courts of first and second instance, is implementing performance funding as a pilot project. In short, this means that the Ministry of Justice will conclude a performance contract with the courts, which will provide the court with additional funds from the reserve to cope with the increased workload, which, according to the State Budget Act, should be earmarked for the performance of the judge's duties. The courts shall use the money provided under the performance contracts to hire temporary auxiliary staff. It is only at the beginning of the financial year that the amounts in respect of which the Court may make use of the additional funds are to be determined in the course of the negotiations. It will take a few months to find and recruit qualified auxiliary staff, followed by a period of access to court and a few months before the end of the financial year by an official temporarily employed to think that his judicial service may not continue in the next budget period because it is not known whether there will be money in reserve to fill his post in the following year. This temporary campaign does not guarantee the stability of the work of the courts and does not shape a professional court office. According to the annual budget of the courts submitted to the Court of Justice Advisory Board in 2012, the contractual financing of the courts amounted to 3% of the staff costs allocated to the county, administrative and district courts from the state budget. According to the Ministry of Justice, the pilot project for the award of performance contracts is successful as the average statistical time of proceedings is reduced. This is probably why the Ministry has strongly increased the volume of performance finance. As regards the 2011 figures, the amount allocated to the courts under the 2012 performance agreements increased by 95,7%. It is true that proceedings are shortening. This is a peculiar situation. On the one hand, the Minister fails to fill the benches, thereby creating a burden on the courts, and on the other hand, the Minister rushes to remedy the situation arising from temporary financial measures. The question arises as to why the Minister of Justice does not comply with his own order determining the number of judges at first and second instance? In recent times, several competitions have failed to fill the vacant judges' seats, which leads to the conclusion that the swift and numerous filling of judges' seats in some parts of Estonia simply fails. This, in turn, means that vacant posts remain vacant for years. Without wishing to initiate a debate here on the question of how many judges there must be in the Estonian judicial system at all, I would just like to stress that the determination of judges' seats at the level of the regulation as a general act should create the foundations for stable judicial funding in order to ensure a stable rhythm of justice in courts, which cannot be achieved by single decision-making on the one-off distribution of funds. Leaving aside all the issues of targeted and transparent use of public money in such a funding scheme, I would like to stress that it is very difficult to find a state-law justification for such "contractual financing" by the courts, because the work of the courts is directly dependent on the decisions of the executive authorities outside the state budget. I propose here that the Minister of Justice establish the optimal number of judges who are justified by his regulation and take into account the needs of Estonian justice, and will also comply with this regulation. Secondly, the possibility of performance funding in other areas of judicial administration could not be excluded from the cost-of-staff performance financing of courts, thus creating better conditions for the emergence of a permanent judicial office. Another example of the desire to get the courts to work faster is the area of legislation. In July 2008, the major changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force, bringing Estonia's legal order into line with the principle of the continuous handling of cases in general proceedings, in order to speed up the judicial procedure in criminal matters. Although this amendment received justified criticism from the judiciary and legal practitioners at the draft stage, it was not taken into account by the legislator. The principle of the continuity of proceedings is that a judge may not take up a new criminal case in general proceedings until a decision has been taken on an offence previously brought before the Court. In essence, the law-level judge was rigidly prescribed how he should organise his work, in what order the cases would be dealt with. On the one hand, such an injunction is a pretty strong obstacle to the principle of the independence of the judge and, on the other hand, a breach of the principle of continuity, in its purely procedural nature, results in the annulment of the right decision. On 25 May this year, the Ministry of Justice presented a meaningful analysis to the Court's Administrative Advisory Board, the main conclusion of which was that the principle of continuous discussion as a method of speeding up the procedure had not extended the time limits for proceedings. It was a good thing it did, because no expert believed in speeding up the procedure hoped for four years ago after the draft authors. The reasons for the ineffectiveness of the work of the courts cannot be eliminated by legislative propaganda projects that create an illusory picture, as if a simple legislative amendment could eliminate dozens of obstacles to the smooth running of justice. It is also reasonable for the legislator to hear the judges when dealing with draft laws restructuring the work of the courts. I propose that the legislator consider the feasibility of applying the principle of continuity in criminal proceedings and amend the Code of Procedure in such a way as to ensure that the right of a judge to plan his work independently in the best possible way and that the departure from the principle of uninterrupted criminal proceedings does not lead essentially to the annulment of the right decision. Now for the problems of administrative court proceedings. Since the new Code of Administrative Procedure entered into force only on 1 January of this year, it is not yet possible to present a systematic analysis of the implementation of the Code to the Riigikogu. I can only note that the Supreme Court is dealing with the analysis of problems arising from the implementation of the new Code and that the legislator will probably already receive detailed feedback in some of the next presentations by the Chairman of the Supreme Court on how the administrative court proceedings have progressed. In today's review, I would like to focus mainly on the administrative area, the solution of which requires the legislator to be informed and, if possible, to intervene. First, the inmates' complaints. In order to characterise detention as a mass phenomenon, it should be noted that in 2011 these complaints amounted to 37.2% of all administrative cases, which is more than one third of all complaints submitted to the administrative court. In 2011 the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court wrote 24 substantive decisions in cases due to disputes between prisons and detainees, which represents 22.2% of the total annual work volume of the administrative college. I am far from the view that, in the rule of law, it should be possible to prohibit the complaints of prisoners in any way or simply to put an end to their proceedings. At the same time, a large number of complaints raise the question of whether it is reasonable to spend more than one third of the administrative judicial resources on the resolution of one type of complaint, which, in my opinion, constitutes a disproportionate part. The costs of translation and the procedure for exempting the state fee are significant, plus a resource spent on pre-trial appeal procedures and responding to requests for information and explanations from detainees in different public authorities. Expenditure is also included in the processing of inmates' complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. On the upside, it may seem that procedural remedies can reduce the number of complaints in custody. The introduction of a pre-trial appeal procedure, as well as the possibility of a simple court procedure, are aimed at simplifying the complaint procedure, but these remedies do not remove the real causes of the problems from which disputes arise. The most common keywords of complaints are prohibited items, the use of personal property, disciplinary sanctions, refusal to work in prison. When resolving an individual complaint, the courts cannot draw general conclusions. However, it is evident that, on the basis of the case-law, it would be possible to change the administrative practice of prisons systematically in order to prevent complaints where the court has to resolve various domestic conflicts. It must be understood that conflict resolution is the most effective at the origin of the conflict. It does not make sense for the court to discuss whether the prisoner is entitled to porridge with jam or jam, or that playing music that does not meet taste preferences in the public premises of the prison may be unpleasant, but not any unpleasantness in itself means lowering human dignity. It is not possible and reasonable to dwell on all the details in this review. In summary, it should be noted that the organisation of the prison management system does not pay sufficient attention to addressing systemic deficiencies identified by courts. For example, the current situation of prisons establishing lists of prohibited items does not ensure uniform application of the law and the establishment of common lists. It is worrying that the prisons and the prison services do not justify additional security measures, handcuffs, placement in a separate locked chamber, use of a calming bed and a calming chair, in sufficient detail, and do not guarantee the right of the prisoners to be heard. Justification is important because the fundamental rights of a person are severely restricted and may cause physical pain. I am not saying here that containment measures should not be used, but that their use must be legitimate and justified. In no way can it be considered sufficient to justify a narrow 'aggressive' statement of the application of the measure, but unfortunately such an abstract recital is quite common in disputes that have reached the Supreme Court. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 29 May 2012 in Julian v. Estonia, in which the Strasbourg Court found an infringement of Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR), a prohibition on torture, which consisted in linking the complainant to a peace bed. It does not sound good that the Republic of Estonia was accused of violating the prohibition of torture. The drafting of a general guide and its uniform implementation in prisons, which should certainly be accompanied by training for prison officials, could contribute to ensuring the legality of the application of different containment measures. I would just like to stress that more than a year ago, the Chancellor of Justice also drew attention to these problems. Finally, on the issue of prisoners, I would like to draw the legislator's attention to the fact that there is still an absolute restriction on the voting rights of prisoners in Estonia, which may conflict with both the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and our own constitution. Previously, the Chancellor of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice drew attention to this. Before the elections, the Constitutional Commission considered that the discussion of amendments and the possible initiation of a legislative amendment should be the decision of the next Riigikogu, as this is a fundamental change in our electoral arrangements and the draft in question is not correct in the terms of the approaching elections. More than a year has passed since the elections, but the Riigikogu has not yet considered it appropriate to tackle the problem that has been raised a long time ago. I have no choice but to ask the representative of the Riigikogu to be included in the list of members of the Supreme Court who consider the current electoral arrangements problematic from the point of view of the prisoners. I propose that the Minister of Justice analyse the administrative practice of prisons, including the use of containment measures, the shortcomings of which have been referred to in the case-law, including the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and bring administrative practice into line with the law. Consideration could be given to amending the mandate rule so that the Minister of Justice establishes a list of prohibited articles in prison, taking into account the specificities of the prison regime, and could also create a common framework to be enforced by the prison. Finally, I will briefly address the issue of the State Liability Act. The Riigikogu is dealing with the draft law of state liability with number 7. I do not believe that the State Liability Act should be adopted in a hurry to get this out of the way, but the long history and seriousness of the problems involved also proves that already in 2006 the European Court of Human Rights issued a ruling on Estonia, which referred to the gaps in Estonian legislation and the lack of case law in resolving cases of damage caused by the state. The Supreme Court has made a number of constitutional review decisions, the main content of which has not been the contradiction of one or the other provision with the Constitution, but the lack of certain regulations and legal bases, or gaps in our legal system. Thus, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court declared the constitutionality of a situation where there is no regulation in the Estonian legal order to compensate for the damage caused by the lawful removal from office in pre-trial criminal proceedings to a fair extent. The Supreme Court has pointed out on several occasions that removal from office during criminal proceedings without payment of remuneration or other compensation may unduly prejudice the rights of the person. The same problem arises in the case of acquittal judicial decisions by compensation for damage caused by unfair deprivation of liberty. Bringing the regulation of state liability into line with the Constitution and the aforementioned Convention will certainly help to reduce the number of complaints against Estonia to the European Court of Human Rights in the future. In conclusion, I propose to the legislator not to delay the processing of the draft law on state liability and to ensure that the laws comply with the Constitution and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U11	Thank you very much, President of the Supreme Court! You have a lot of questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U12	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Can you state the main reasons why competitions to fill vacant judges so often fail? As far as I know, the urge to study law is still great in all universities and many graduates do not find professional employment and go to other fields. The second part of the question concerns performance wages, which you also partly linked to these competitions in the report. Is there no danger that the quality of justice will deteriorate if the courts start working on the conveyor method to work as many cases as possible, but in fact there is not enough progress, because the result wage is pushing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U13	The competitions announced to fill the vacant judges' seats have failed in Viru County and in Tartu County or South Estonia. These are regions where the proportion of qualified lawyers is low. You rightly pointed out that a lot of lawyers are being trained in Estonian higher education institutions. It has been estimated that there are about 3,000 classical lawyers in Estonia at all and, in fact, there are about 3000 lawyers today. So 3,000 lawyers are already over-trained. Apparently, they've found an application in the business field or anywhere. The Bar Association is a good example of responding to market needs. At present, in my opinion, there are already over 700 lawyers in the bar Association. However, when you look at how many of them are in Põlva or River, these figures are very modest, not to say nothing. There are no lawyers on the river, I think there's one in Põlva. This whole association of lawyers is concentrated around Tallinn and therefore no competition has failed in Harju County Court. They're running for prosecutors, they're running for senior attorneys. Geographical distribution varies widely. The trend is that it is easier to become a judge in the Valga courthouse or Võru courthouse of the Tartu County Court, as well as to become a judge in Virumaa Narva or Jõhvi, than in the Kentmann Street courthouse in Tallinn, for example. However, neither the General Assembly of the Supreme Court nor the Judges' Examination Board have lowered the qualification bar for this reason. The requirements are high, because we want people with the best qualifications to work in the judicial system, the best personal qualities, so that we do not have to go through the shame of a few years ago. That's what's causing the problem that we can announce competitions, but if a person doesn't want to choose Võru, Valga or Narva as a place to live, he'll try to cope here, where, let's say, business and money revolves. In the Northern Estonia region, it is not difficult to get full seats when competitions are announced. The second thing is that filling the vacant seats of the Court of Second Instance has been extremely successful. In the first instance, ten people apply for second instance judges. That's not a problem. The problem is wider. I don't think it's right to apply any coefficients or do something like that, but this is the same regional policy problem that is pushing different areas. It will also be transferred to the courts. Now for the conveyor system. I would like to make it clear that the judge does not have a paycheck, but a court official. And it is not a pay off of the workload, but it is simply a hire for additional people to prepare the court materials for decision-making. That's enough work there. My emphasis, however, is that this work is exponential. It's periodic: it's order, there's no order. However, the training of the secretary or adviser or consultant of the hearing does not last for weeks or months, but takes several years to get a good assistant to the judge. With certain injections of money like this, a fire can be extinguished, some short - term effect, but in the long run, it doesn't make sense. Certainly, the different colleges of the Supreme Court are not going to lower the quality requirements in order to resolve matters quickly. Indeed, if haste becomes unreasonable, the quality of judgments may well fall. It's a warning sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U14	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U15	Thank you, good manager. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Your report gave the impression that you haven't met the Minister of Justice in a long time. I wonder if the ministry should take you to Toomemägi or bring you to Tõnismägi? Don't you have regular meetings to discuss these issues with each other, or can you only meet in a black suit on February 24th?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U16	Thank you very much for your witty question. We will meet with the Minister of Justice with sufficient frequency. I brought these problems before the Riigikogu because these meetings have also been recorded, the subject I raised here has repeatedly been the subject of discussion in the court administration council, but nothing has changed. The problem is not that one thing or another is wrong or that the Minister of Justice has the authority to do it or to do it. It's a matter of legislative changes, a lot of problems here. If the good questioner had in mind the issue of court administration, it was in fact the best version of the draft law on courts, which fell out of the procedure during the previous parliamentary term. As long as these matters are not resolved, this double jurisdiction or double administration will continue: on the one hand, the court administration council, which is chaired by the President of the Supreme Court, tries to contribute to the administration of courts of first and second instance, but on the other hand, the announcement of competitions and the wallet are held by the Minister of Justice. He is perhaps based on a more general logic, because for the Minister of Justice, the funding of the courts and the development of these schemes, the conclusion of contracts are not the only thing, but also the prosecutor's office, prisons, lawmaking and everything else. So this is a much wider problem, and I do not want to blame the Minister of Justice, who is currently in office, for the fact that these problems have arisen in his time. These problems are, you know, 20 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U17	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! First of all, thank you for an interesting and well presented presentation. My question, too, concerns the number of judges. Your report, as well as the accompanying materials, shows that, in essence, since 2007, the number of judges has not been in line with the number of these posts. There have always been fewer and more of them are missing: at the beginning of this year, there are almost 10% fewer judges than necessary. I also understand that if the Ministry of Justice constantly tries to fill these places by running competitions, they will fail. Perhaps the opposite approach should be taken and the number of judges reduced. So that the proposal in your review would be more specific, perhaps you could explain how much you think the optimal number of judges is, given the situation and the future of recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U19	Good questioner! You're asking me how much it's worth. Very hard to say! Let us first approach the historical side. In the run-up to Estonia's independence, not to say Soviet times, there were 70-80 judges. But what was the observance of procurement and fund discipline, which was at all debated in court, is a matter of its own. There's no base for comparison here, and it's not worth taking into account. It is often used in public debates to see that the number of judges has increased at least three or four times, but the courts are still blocked. But compared to what? Our legal system is one hundred percent different, and it is therefore justified to compare the number of our judges with the same figure in countries where there is an analogous legal system. There shall be one judge per 100000 inhabitants in these countries. This is, of course, about the size of the scale is like this. By size, our system is comparable to the German system. There are a little less judges in Estonia per 100000 inhabitants than there are in Germany. But the magnitude is the same. Consequently, a possible total number of judges should be derived. One of the schemes used is three lawyers per judge and as many prosecutors as the judges. If we have 700 or more lawyers, that proportion is practically already there, as well as the number of prosecutors, more or less. In other words, if one, the other and the third were to be considered, the number of judges should be 200-250. Sometimes it has to swing. But the problem is not that it is 242 or 220, but that there is always hope that some places will be filled, but that they will not be filled. If, for example, the number was 200 under a ministerial decree or also by law, the courts would organise their work with the assistance of advisers and other assistants. Work would be different. On this number 220 or 250 it's a question of choice. But this stake will be thrown into the ground and, as a result of this choice, the courts will be able to organise their work, set up assistant staff consultants, advisers. So our problem lies not so much in this total number, but in the fact that there is some mysterious 242, but we cannot achieve it, while quite rightly hoping that all these places will be filled. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U20	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! The agreements are commendable things. My question is about the increase in the number of settlement procedures recently. There are cases that have the value of precedents or that violate the public's sense of justice. Are the cases and final solutions concluded by the agreement always positive and in this sense correspond to the social dangers of the act, or are the arrangements or agreements in some respects a little too easy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U22	When you begin to answer this question very thoroughly, you should introduce a series of analyses and studies carried out by the analysts of the Supreme Court, but this is basically not possible in this panel. The questioner apparently had in mind settlement procedures in criminal proceedings. There is an undisputed risk that an agreement will be reached simply because both the prosecution and the accused will be useful. For the country, even more than 90% of the decisions on the settlement procedures are probably made with huge savings in resources, huge savings in time. At the same time, it is highly questionable whether the evidence dealt with in the settlement procedures can be highly assessed against the criterion of truth. There is always a risk that illegal agreements may even be concluded in settlement procedures, because they are not controlled by the Supreme Court and they do not come out of the analysis. A couple of years ago, or it was in last year's presentation, I also gave an example to the Riigikogu, where, thanks to the analyst of the Supreme Court, a completely illegal agreement was found at first instance. It was discovered by looking at specific things. But an analysis of such an agreement procedure will only be achieved in a few or three years' time, and then everything will be outdated and nothing can be done on a specific matter. For agreements to meet society's expectations to be fairer, this must certainly be borne in mind by both the prosecutor's office and the courts that approve the agreements. At the same time, it is not excluded that a decision taken in general proceedings also goes directly against the sense of justice of society. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U23	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U24	Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Court! I ask for your position as to when and from which a member of the Riigikogu has a legitimate interest in examining the court file. Perhaps specifically: if the voter turns to a member of the Riigikogu regarding a case which he or she is dissatisfied with, the result of which he or she is dissatisfied with, my example relates to the withdrawal of custody, does the member of the Riigikogu have a legitimate interest in having access to the court file?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U25	There may be an interest, but there's no right. Procedural laws regulate very precisely who are parties to the proceedings. And procedural laws must also give access to the case-file. If the good questioner is referring to the case that took place in Narva, I am simply familiar with it through the press, then obviously the court will have to resolve this issue on a relatively individual basis. After all, a member of the Riigikogu does not go to the file with personal interest, he does so by serving the people. That's how I see it. If there is a personal interest in the intimacy of a "neighbouring family," then it should definitely be rejected. A flexible approach is possible, but it assumes that sensitive personal data are protected, that the interests of the various parties to proceedings are protected, all such things. The problem can be shattered, autopsied, and I do not see anything strange about it when the procedural codes are reviewed from this point of view. Whether the legislator reaches the conclusion that the cover of the court file can also be viewed with the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, I cannot say that. At the moment, a member of the Riigikogu is a regular side- or spectator. Judicial proceedings shall be governed very precisely by who has the right of access to the documents and to draw conclusions from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U26	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I assume you're definitely familiar with Judge Leo Kunman's case. Today, the man is acquitted of what he was accused of. I'm going to read one of his quotes from an interview with the Postman. 'I'm not theirs (public prosecutor's office and defence police) Leo Kunman said. It's not said by any man on the street, it's said by a life-long judge. Doesn't it concern you that things like this happen? Isn't that a warning sign?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U28	I would not like to begin to analyze the ideas expressed in the form of a free interview from the entire speaker who deserves so much respect. Leo Kunman, as a citizen, has undoubtedly the right to say what he wants. Secondly, as regards the vindication of Leo Kunman, I am not equipped with this information today. In my opinion, this acquittal judgment was appealed to the Supreme Court and, if it is pending before the Supreme Court, I refuse to comment at all. But when the question of criminal prosecution of Leo Kunman arose, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court decided to grant this permission. It was not an urgent procedure, but it was sent back to the DA's office. On the second occasion the General Assembly of the Supreme Court found that controversial moments, contradictions cannot be eliminated in any way other than during criminal proceedings. The assessments made by Leo Kunman regarding the activities of the prosecutor's office can and may not be accepted. If you wish, you may seek proof of them, but this case, as far as I know, has not yet been completed, and it is therefore somewhat difficult to deal with these controversial issues here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U29	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! In Estonia, 38 people are in prison for life. Under our law, you have the right to apply for release if the sentence has been served for 30 years. There is no other such country in the European Union. Even in Russia, this time is five years shorter. It's a ten-year tour of our northern neighbours, Sweden just lost a life sentence. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U31	I must say that my position coincides exactly with that of the legislator. It's a matter of judgment, and the courts are obeying the law. If this is a serious problem, given the large number of our lifetime prisoners, given the many social policy circumstances and the international background you have presented here, it is a question of the legislator's decision-making. Courts obey the law, and I don't have any personal opinion here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U32	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U33	Thank you, good manager. Mr. President of the Supreme Court! Listening to your speech, the impression appeared that Estonian courts had little autonomy. You depend too much on the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice. This concerns both the budget and the number of judges. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U34	The dispute about how judicial administration should be organised has lasted in the Republic of Estonia for 20 years. Since 2002, when the court administration model was changed, the establishment of the judicial authorities was introduced, I am thinking of the Court Administration Advisory Board, the Examination Committee, a number of such self-governing entities, and this model has not changed for ten years now. I stress that the judicial system is a separate branch of power, and this separate branch of power, as well as the legislative branch, should be inherent in the right of self-regulation under our constitution. In the current situation, this right to self - order is limited. Reasons are given that the judicial system cannot manage self-management and the reasons are given that the executive must be able to organise financial matters. There's gotta be an undisputed one! But the right to self-regulation of the judiciary is also correlated with responsibility, and that means that there must be a corps of judges with a clear sense of responsibility in Estonia. You can't get justice done except for a judge. The minister can't come to justice, no one else can. And I think it is certainly worth the need to review this same court administration model for the discussion of the composition of this Riigikogu. I would like to stress once again: in the proceedings of the previous Riigikogu there was a draft law on courts where all these problems were raised and solutions were proposed, but at the end of the Riigikogu's mandate it fell out of the procedure. It would be a pleasure if this issue were further addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U35	Good afternoon, President-in-Office, good waitress and ladies and gentlemen. I am three in one role here: on the one hand, a representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, on the other hand, the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and, on the third, one of the two people who, by the Riigikogu, participate in the work of the court administration council. Therefore, I was also one of the people who was aware of what the President of the Supreme Court intended to speak to us. I think it's okay that the Minister of Justice is not doing a co-report right now. Due to the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu have plenty of opportunities to ask the Minister of Justice the relevant questions, whether in Question Time or through enquiries. But there are indeed things that are not in our hands as legislators. However, it is nice to note that changes have taken place since the year of the presentation, and I am thinking of the issue of state fees. I sincerely hope that this is the exceptional period in Estonian history that was reflected in the economic situation, on the one hand, in the reaction of politicians to it and, on the other hand, in the response of politicians to it and, on the third, in what it all really meant for civil justice. So the law that we have adopted will hopefully improve people's access to justice and we can be satisfied with our performance. I agree with this proposal, which concerns the possibility of discussing each constitutional review court's ruling also in the relevant committee. There is no need for any joint decision or guidelines of the Riigikogu. Above all, we can do this in the two committees, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Legal Affairs, if our lives are pushed forward by such solutions. I also dare to agree with the President of the Supreme Court about the ability of judges to work. Indeed, we are dealing with talented people. Of course, there are people with very different handwritings among 200 and more judges; someone takes it the same way, the other a little differently, but they all apply the same law and justice is still happening. As far as the number of judges is concerned, this is indeed a debate. As we know, we have made a minor change in this regard within the framework of the State Fees Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law amending other laws, which may help to alleviate the situation in Viru County in particular: older judges who would otherwise be able to retire can continue their work as a result of certain procedures. It is certainly such an emergency solution, and there is no systematic approach. Of course, the lower the number of judges in Estonia, the lower the probability that there are those who would apply for vacant seats in Valga or Virumaa. It actually means moving away from these areas of justice, I'm afraid. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U36	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U37	From the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is also important to look at this proposal concerning the application of the principle of continuity. So what do we do with it? Surely one thing is that the relevant legislative changes can come from the Ministry of Justice. On the other hand, today's members of the Riigikogu, especially members of the Legal Affairs Committee, should have a clear overview of the situation in order to shape and be demanding for their part. The Estonian prisoners have received a great deal of attention in today's presentation, and we will be listening here this spring to another presentation of the observations made by the Chancellor of Justice. The President of the Supreme Court admitted that we must reach a situation where the type of prisons in the camp will be wound up. If you look at where the complaints come from to the Chancellor of Justice, you can see that they do not come from Murru prison, but come from the modern Viru and Tartu prisons. And the reason is very simple: in the prison of Murru, life is good enough for the prisoner and he doesn't even think about making any complaints about the taste of the porridge, because it's better not to make a sound. The head of the Supreme Court mentioned several times during a period such as 20 years that several problems have been encountered for a few decades. At the same time, we could say that changes could come in a year. I am sure that the President of the Supreme Court will find in his next year's presentation problems to draw attention to, and I hope that we will be worthy of answering our own questions about how to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U38	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Once again, thank you to the President of the Supreme Court for Mr Märt Rask's presentation and to you, good colleagues, for questions and speeches! This concerns the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U39	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U40	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When speaking about the work of courts, it is common practice to talk about the times of legal proceedings. If you look at the statistics attached to your review, you can see that, for the same type of procedure, proceedings vary even twice in different county courts, as well as one type of court, within a single county court, these times are not the same trend. In Tartu County Court, for example, the processing of civil matters is the shortest time, but in the same misdemeanour he is in the red lantern. What's the big difference? Is that the natural state of things?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U41	First of all, it is certainly the organisation of the Court's work, whether or not the benches have been filled. If one of the judges is vacant, the burden of one of the judges will, figuratively speaking, be gathered in the closet, which will extend the period of proceedings. Secondly, it certainly depends on the qualified case of the judge. If you look at Virumaa as a district court order, it also takes into account the need for translation, which in turn is an additional cost of resources and time. What's to deny is that it also depends very much on how the court can assert itself. It is not only the time of the sitting and the time when the decision was written. It often takes most of the time to serve the documents, to bring the parties to the proceedings to court, to use a delicate form and not to say that they are being sought. Such organisational issues take the lion's share of the judge's or court's time. It is good to stress here that we all miss this time if the register of Estonian residents matches reality, gets the right data and can rely on it. However, this is practically not the case at the moment. You mentioned that there are different times for judges, too, in court. People are different. It cannot be criticised that one judge is dealing with cases somewhat more slowly. When you read the solutions, you have to add that in more detail. The work of a judge is not mass production, but every case is individual, requires individual deepening, and I dare say that there is a great deal of creative work in understanding justice. It makes sense, as I emphasised in the report, that the length of the proceedings is to be shortened. But I would like to stress once again that there is one drawback: if only the speed of the proceedings is given priority, then the fall in the quality of the proceedings, the fall in the quality of the judgments, will actually have the opposite effect, it will be a new round, and the length of the proceedings will be even longer. It still takes time to find an optimal balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U42	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Today's paper report contains a lot of interesting statistics on what is being tried and how quickly cases will be resolved. My question is a little more philosophical. At different times, there's some debate in court about different things. Is there any generalisation on the basis of this statistics that these cases, which are currently the most discussed before the court, speak of our time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U44	I'm sure she can. For example, in high times of ownership reform and following it, there were a lot of disputes concerning ownership reform issues. Today, these disputes have almost been debated, with a few still going on. If we think that this has been going on for 20 years, it also shows the rigour or long-term nature of the dispute. There are always legal disputes in different areas when the law is changed rapidly when a new regulation comes. The law does not need to be put into effect in an instant, it needs time for it to get settled, for society to adopt the law, so that, figuratively speaking, the matter can be learned. Learning through court is also a way of educating. If this particular law of the law on debt, which regulates the civil sphere very extensively, is once covered by the precedents and if there is a strong legal order on this issue, these disputes will certainly end. But the idea is so interesting that I will definitely take it from here and set up a task in front of the analysts of the Supreme Court. Legally, litigation probably gives a pretty good picture of the rhythm of society. This is being done all the time in criminal and criminal matters, the number of thefts has increased, the number of killings has decreased, whatever it is, it is always being brought out. But it is the civil and administrative sectors that will certainly give a very good picture of the work of the various sections of our public administration. Thank you very much for your good proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U45	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U46	I would point out that in 2000, no, in 2002, the draft law on the Civil Service Act was indeed brought into parliamentary proceedings on the initiative of the then Minister of Justice, Märt Rask. But this law, which is now in force, has been adopted much earlier, and as you said, it is what it is. I say yes, that is what it is, and I think it should have been changed already in 2002. However, just as such complex problems often do, the power of Parliament was also slowed down at that time, and the draft came out of the procedure with the end of the mandate. Now I don't know if it's the third, fourth or multiple attempts. In this new draft, I know this undoubtedly because the Supreme Court has analysed the draft and made its proposals very positive, but the proposals of the Supreme Court were also seriously related to the fact that the judicial service should be treated in a somewhat different way than the ordinary, general public service. Since the text is not available, I cannot start quoting here or talking about these things, but I think that the draft as a whole will certainly help to clarify our civil service salary arrangements and other such things. I wish the Riigikogu every success! There are always debatable moments and it can always happen that when such a large area is re-regulated, a number of provisions may conflict with the legal system in order not to say that they are contrary to the Constitution. But it is perfectly normal that after the disputes are improved, specified. I don't know what to say after wishing for success and strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U47	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Just before our accession to the European Union, in April 2004, the Financial Times, in its special edition dedicated to the profile of the new Member States, brought out the differences between these countries, in other words, what the European Union will be richer by. According to these data, Estonia enriched the European Union with a large number of prisoners. Eight years later, I ask: does Estonia continue to stand out in the European Union in terms of the number of prisoners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U49	This data is certainly more convenient for the Minister of Justice, and prisons are known to be in the realm of the Ministry of Justice. But I think the current trend towards a decrease in the number of detainees is continuing. According to the memory, I handled it in last year's report. That's the ratio of several prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants. If we had this number over the years of 300 with something per 100,000 inhabitants, Europe was considered to be a normal 50.60 or something. So it was different in size, not a few numbers. Today, the number of detainees has been reduced thanks to various measures, whether they are control measures in the case of early release, or other things, including the shortening of penalty periods. I don't know exactly how it is right now, but I remember a meeting six months ago when it was discussed at the Supreme Court. Let's just say our position has improved considerably, but not commendable. However, such drastic changes cannot be made here. It cannot be that we will release all the prisoners and thus achieve another role of a good child in the eyes of European bodies or any other bodies, but the result is that we ourselves have to deal with this lawless company on the street somehow. At least the purpose of the punishment should be to return to an honest life. There are quite a few possibilities and methods for achieving this goal. Prison is only one of them. We are seriously pleased that we are about to get rid of the so-called camp-type prisons that were actually a crime university. Individual work with detainees has certainly improved, which has also been reflected in some aspects in today's report, but it is too early for great joy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U50	Mr President of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please beg the representative of the Riigikogu's speech chair of the Reform Party Group Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U51	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the Minister of Justice should have spoken to us here on the basis of today's organisation and regulation, because most of the areas that we touched on, which we were talking about, are actually the competence of the Minister of Justice. However, life has arranged that the President of the Supreme Court is forced to speak on these matters and come up with suggestions. The sympathetic presentation was that the President of the Supreme Court gave us a brief and substantive overview and also pointed out the problematic places that we need to focus attention on in the coming period. As a comprehensive assessment, I believe, the state of health of the third power is normal in Estonia and does not cause a cloud of concern, but there are things that can always be improved. My comment that this report should have been made by the Minister of Justice is a far-reaching background. When we did the judicial reform in 1993-1995, which introduced a three-stage judicial system, the types of new jurisdiction, such as administrative procedure and constitutional supervision, there was no reform of judicial administration. It seems today that judicial financing, administration, accounting, human resources, finances are still unresolved here. It is time to take up and complete the side of judicial administration to complete the reform, to bring it into line with our constitution and with developments in other European countries. Let's move on to the creation of the norm. It concerns us on one side and also concerns the judges and the judiciary as a whole as a implementing body. Life around us is getting more complicated, more dynamic and faster. We have the illusion that by regulating life in more detail and deeper, we can direct and direct life. In fact, it's a mistake because the creation of the norm is getting slower and life is getting faster, and once we're done with our norm creation, which goes into the details, it's gone for our lives. This creates a wide range of disputes between people, between companies, a lack of understanding and, ultimately, a workload for the courts. Therefore, we should give up the illusion that detailed, very thorough regulation is the way out of dispute. On the contrary, the more detailed we regulate, the greater the possibility of conflicts and they cannot be overcome by interpreting the courts or by any other means that exist. Therefore, a practice in which disputes are settled by judicial procedure, a diversion and going to details is a diversion. A little further on the speed of justice. The speed of justice or the reasonable time, as we speak of him, is on the court table and they pay attention to it. It's a nice and necessary thing to do. The problem is, however, that pre-trial proceedings and post-trial enforcement proceedings are included in the reasonable time. And here we have problems. In particular, we do not have time limits in pre-trial proceedings, in particular in criminal investigations, and some things can stretch there for years. In the end, people are ruined, the court is confronted with the problem that it has to resolve the matter quickly, because it has already stretched. It would therefore be reasonable to consider whether we would not need to re-introduce in the course of the criminal investigation deadlines or any other rule that would force, or at least direction, the criminal investigation to be carried out more quickly and to be concluded. Another part of this problem is the clarity and comprehension of judgments. The wisdom of the judge is not expressed by the fact that he writes a simple matter in a complex, long and therefore difficult way, but by the fact that he writes a complex matter in a simple, clear and understandable way. It's a sign of his mind and skill. When a person writes long, complex, and seemingly very professionally, he encodes a variety of disputes because people do not understand and lawyers understand differently. Therefore, there would be a recommendation to the judicial system: write the decisions briefly, simply and clearly. Further on from the rational allocation of resources in the judicial system. Indeed, we may have, in some cases, knocked the courts out too. This is demonstrated by the overburdening of administrative courts with disputes that should not be included at all. For example, whether the porridge is jammed or buttered or what kind of music someone wants to listen to in order to find out about it, the person has the right to go out to the Supreme Court. No, you don't have to go! This is a waste of resources from a national perspective. We should therefore think, both through the legislator and through the courts, about how to implement more pre-trial and out-of-court dispute resolution systems. One example was the inmates' complaints, but there are still a number of matters: rental disputes, rental disputes and various other disputes, which do not necessarily have to come to court. They can only come in the last instance, but problems are usually solved where they arise. And finally the State Liability Act. Indeed, it is our fault that this bill has not been completed and it has been dragged on for so long. We need to improve this situation because there are various legal decisions between people and the state behind it. It is not just a formal completion of one law, but it is a protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. And the Strasbourg solution resulting from the infringement of Article 3 would indeed be quite the last one. Markedly, it's a very bad solution, a decision about us. We should find time and opportunities to introduce better procedures and training in the administration of the prison system so that such things are avoided in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U52	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I was concerned by the talk in the first half of the presentation about the great burden on the courts and the lack of judges, which could have an impact on quality. One thing we've been talking about a lot lately is surveillance, and now the bodies that carry out this activity are saying that surveillance is only available from the court. But if the courts are so burdened, isn't surveillance, including eavesdropping, given too formally? Because if you say no, you have to find a reason. If the tracker turns to this request, it will be easier to give this permission right now, the microphones in and the work will begin. In the context of the high level of congestion, is it not very simplistic to grant surveillance permits in courts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U54	Good questioner, unlike you, I have no experience with whether microphones are turned on or off or how they are done. This issue has not been specifically analysed. The work of the investigating judges at first instance should certainly be included in the work plan as the subject of analysis. I can't rely on specific figures or statistics right now because you were talking about feeling, so I should be answering you with feelings. In my opinion, it is probably necessary to begin, first of all, to analyse the arguments, the motives on which permits are given and on which cases are not granted. The European Court of Human Rights has pointed out the figures in this regard, there are cases where the granting of a surveillance permit was 97.98%, the refusal almost did not exist when I was mistaken, it was Armenia or Moldova. This was considered completely abnormal in terms of the protection of human rights. In other words, it is not only an obstacle to a particular person, but if it is a mass phenomenon, if the court does not control it, it is essentially impossible to say that the permission given by a court or a judge would have some other value than the permission given by, for example, the chief police officer or the prosecutor or someone who is in the proceedings. So this is an external review, however, but today I cannot really give you any more in-depth analysis of whether this is happening exactly in accordance with our laws, whether these motives, reasoning and arguments are convincing enough. This area should be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U55	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! March 5th s. a Raivo Aeg Postimees, Director General of the Defence Police Department, gave a historical interview, where he clearly pressed and influenced judges, for example, by commenting on the land change story. I quote: 'The judge doesn't even have any formal reasons to acquit. ' Valeri Lahnik, judge of the exchange of lands, sent a letter to the Supreme Court and to you. At the time of March, you answered through the press that the address and this letter from the Lahnik were still too recent to comment on it. Today is the beginning of June, have you taken a position on this letter, its appeal, and what is it like? Perhaps you will also respond a little more broadly to the way in which the head of the investigative body intervenes openly and so strongly in the work of the judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U57	Let's start at the end of the question. I think that taking the floor on justice should be quite well formulated and considered when it is done by an authoritative head of authority. Personally, I think it was a language glitch because it is one of the contexts of the sentence. I have not had the opportunity or the need to have this conversation with Raivo Aeg. However, as you put it and quoted in the press, the violation of the independence of the courts is clearly present. With such statements, I can imagine, someone might come out in the Internet or in the yellow press, but the head of a serious state institution should be more selective in its wording. As for the letter from Valer's Lane, there's been a mix-up. We studied the correspondence with Valeri Lahnik in the Supreme Court with great seriousness and it turned out that Valeri Lahnik had sent a letter to the President of the Supreme Court in June last year, not now. But the press took it from somewhere as if Valeri Lahnik had turned to the Supreme Court for this interview. Valeri Lahnik has not turned to this interview, maybe he has turned to somewhere, but he has not turned to the President of the Supreme Court. In a letter sent a year ago, Valeri Lahnik complained about this is not a question of the secrecy of correspondence just really about the fact that his work at the Harju County Court is somewhat complicated. In his letter, he dealt with organizational questions and other things. That's the letter we answered, and we don't have any more letters. I don't remember what journalism it was, whether it was Äripäev or some other page, but we even said, "Come see, there's no such letter in our registers. I don't know, it hasn't gotten to me. Therefore, I cannot tell you when I will respond to a letter that has not yet reached me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U58	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Thank you for that review. My question concerns the subject matter, which is very topical in the area of public law, the draft law on public service, which is being dealt with in the Riigikogu. As your Minister of Justice, you were also involved in this process that today's law is what it is. The Civil Service Act also applies to judges and court officials. Would you like to comment on how the current bill would contribute to our Estonian court order?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U60	We will move on to the fifth item, which is the second reading of the Estonian Education Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws. Aadu Musta, Deputy Chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this Act took place in the Riigikogu Hall on April 30th. In the meantime, this bill has been further developed. The Committee on Culture prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 29 May. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research also participated. Of all the questions, there was, in essence, one problem and some peripheral concern about this law. In particular, in the case of this draft law, which aimed to combine the tasks of the institutions under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research and to transfer the tasks of the National Examination and Qualifications Centre, the problem arose that the text contained a single age limit, which concerned the performance of the citizenship sex. It is defined as exempt people born before January 1, 1930. The problem is that this rigidly established date of birth, which at the time of adoption of the principle meant a 65-year-old age limit, has grown year by year and is now likely to show 82-year-old people. In this way, it was found that we can reach a situation where those 104 years of age have been released, etc. In order to resolve the issue, the Commission addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In its letter of reply, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs explained that this was a serious problem, but pointed out that the whole package of citizenship problems was nevertheless peripheral to this law. The Commission has decided to amend the text of the law precisely in such a way that it concerns the merger of institutions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs apparently returns itself and, more seriously, to all the problems that are peripheral to this law. The Committee on Culture proposed that the draft law be placed on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 7 June, as has been done. In the event that the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission decided to submit the draft to the third reading on 13 June with a proposal for the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-07_U62	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Five amendments have been received for draft 223. Let's start reviewing them. All amendments are from the lead committee. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth amendments. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with. Good colleagues, that concludes today's trial. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.39 a.m.
