ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I ask for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U2	Madam President, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and consequently amending other laws, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, the Minister of the Environment, and secondly, the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U3	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to refer an inquiry on behalf of myself and some of my colleagues to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This concerns the Public Procurement Act. The first paragraph of the Public Procurement Act states that the purpose of the Act is to ensure the transparent, rational and sustainable use of the contracting authority's funds, equal treatment of persons and effective exploitation of existing conditions of competition. In recent months, a number of unfortunate cases have been brought to the public via various media where public procurement procedures have been violated. Problems in complying with public procurement procedures have proved to be so great that the National Audit Office has repeatedly considered it necessary to draw attention to them. For example, on 3 February this year, the National Audit Office's report on the organisation of the establishment of the victory pillar of the War of Independence was completed. On 3 December, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir replied to the questions of members of the Riigikogu about the new oil shale energy blocks of Eesti Energia. On 7 December, the Estonian Päevaleht published an article on how Rein Raud and Ignar Fjuk built the Tallinn University building without a competition. Basically, this last case forced us to submit this question to the Prime Minister. In total, we have six questions for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U5	Thank you. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the drafts comply with the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide to accept them within three working days, and if the inquiry complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, they will be communicated to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. The Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft State Budget Act of 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for submission of documents on the basis of the third reading. a on December 11, at 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. Seventy-nine delegates registered to be present, 22 missing. You have received an allocation of 10.13 this week's agenda. December and I shall put it to the vote. Are we ready to vote? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 76 delegates voted in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. The agenda for the 11th working week is therefore confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U6	Let's go to today's questions. The first is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Mailis Repsi, Tarmo Tamme and Jüri Ratas on 15 November (No 235). This is the Minister of Agriculture for Helir-Valdor Seeder. On behalf of the heirs, I ask for a speech chair in Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U7	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I hope he exists. Indeed, our inquiry concerns the establishment of a pet register. According to the Animal Disease Control Act, local authorities have to keep records of dogs, cats and, where appropriate, some other small animals. It is currently left on the shoulders of the local governments. Since the capacity and competence of Estonian municipalities is very uneven in regulating pet housing and developing the field, there is no hope for an increase in the animal culture in the near future. In this context, we have put three questions to the Minister and we would like to discuss this issue in greater depth in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U8	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U9	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. To begin with, I hope that in the near future, the animal culture will rise in the Republic of Estonia. Now to answer the questions asked. The Ministry of Agriculture has repeatedly considered proposals by animal protection and other organisations to include in the Act a provision that pet animals are kept in the national pet register. Several round tables have been convened in the Ministry of Agriculture over the years to discuss the possible establishment of a national pet register and related legislative changes. Representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities, Estonian Association of Rural Governments, State Information Systems Development Centre, Tallinn Environmental Board, Estonian Association of Small Animal Doctors and other interest groups have participated. The meetings have led to the conclusion that a single database is necessary, but given the work done so far to establish it and the information technology solutions and possibilities developed, it is no longer appropriate to establish a national pet register. The registers shall be based on unique animal number combinations by which they can be identified and shall be made available most effectively by the microchip. The obligation for pet owners to register their pets, in particular dogs, must be preceded by a national obligation to chip the animals. The discussions so far have revealed that there is no consensus among municipalities on this issue, there is no social agreement. However, in future developments, this is a likely and logical objective to be achieved. To date, chipping has become the most common form of animal labelling. At the moment, three online registers have been established in Estonia for the registration of pet animals, which are all similar in nature to the owner of the animal and allow the identity of the owner of the animal entered there to be quickly identified. First of all, the Estonian Association of Pet Doctors has established a pet register, which is the longest historical register. Secondly, AS Spin TEK was originally created for the city of Tallinn and supported by it, which is now directly addressed to the municipalities so that they can fulfil their obligation under the law. It is connected through the X-Road to the population register, where the animal owner's data is taken from, and to the state portal eesti.ee. There are currently more than 57000 dogs, cats, ferrets and their owners in the register. 26 municipalities have joined the register. According to the Animal Disease Control Act, the local government organises the keeping of records of dogs and, where appropriate, other pets. The detailed rules are set out in the rules for the keeping of dogs and cats established by each municipality. It is adopted under the Local Government Organisation Act and, if any, in the Register Statute. In municipalities that have joined the Pet Register, residents are obliged to register their animals in the register. It is mandatory to label and register dogs, cats and other favourites chip and register on a voluntary basis. For the animal owner, the maximum cost involved is often linked to chipping, which costs EUR 10 to 40 per animal. This is a significant amount and is one of the main obstacles to the creation of electronic registers. The retail price of the chip is less than 10 euros, but only a veterinarian can chip. The Pet Register has established a flat-rate monthly rent for municipalities, including fees for maintenance, accommodation, development, maintenance and consultation of the register, as well as training and access to the register for local government officials as well as the veterinarians they wish. There shall be no additional charge for the entry of animals in the register. The price varies according to the number of inhabitants of the municipality. Prices for the smallest municipalities start from EUR 15 per month plus VAT; for the medium-sized municipality, the costs of joining the register would be approximately EUR 200 per year. Thus, the biggest burden for the participating local authority is rather a one-off administrative activity in the development of the relevant legislation and contracts and the willingness to switch to mandatory chip with the community and to cover the costs associated with it. In particular, animal owners must be prepared and able to pay for the chip. However, when we are talking about a new register, it is estimated to cost EUR 650000, plus maintenance of EUR 200000 per year. These figures were proposed by AS Spin TEK at the last pet registration round table. The Food and Veterinary Office will not further finance the measures necessary to establish a pet register, if you are referring to the establishment of a national register. On 1 October 2000, a national register of farm animals was introduced on the basis of the Government of the Republic's Decree establishing a register of farmed animals. The data provided can prevent and eliminate problems related to infectious diseases and food safety in animals. Registration of farm animals in the national register is also a prerequisite for the payment of animal-related payments to producers. These are significant differences compared to the pet register. Historically, it has become so that pet registers have been initiated and developed in European Union countries, either on the initiative of the private sector, by associations of breeders of breeding dogs, and these registers contain data on breeding dogs according to the direction of breeding and simultaneously perform the functions of the register in the process of regulating the rules governing the keeping of dogs, either on the initiative of the private sector or on the initiative of local authorities. There are often a number of parallel registers in countries where you can search for an animal if necessary. This is also the case in Estonia. During the Belgian Presidency, the issue of chip and registration of more extensive dogs was also under discussion in Brussels. It was concluded that the principle of subsidiarity must continue to prevail, i.e. it must remain up to each Member State to decide, because development levels and historically developed situations are too different. So far, the European chip has been made mandatory for dogs, cats and ferrets who, together with their host, are moving outside their own country within the European Union. Such an animal must be accompanied by a passport in accordance with the euro requirements, giving all the necessary details. In particular, with a view to a more favourable and systematic approach to the customer, cooperation between registers should lead to a situation where data could be searched in all registers through a single search engine, i.e. a single database would have been created. At the same time, current trends in the development of a pet register aimed at municipalities show that it is becoming essentially a national register with all legal features. All municipalities will be able to join the registers already developed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U10	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U11	Minister, thank you very much for this review. But you talk to someone like that with an attitude like a pet register is someone else's business. It really is now for the administration and organisation of local governments. But what do you think if 26 local authorities have joined these registers and five or six are still joining, isn't that a little bit? We have over 200 municipalities and, in fact, we do not have a uniform procedure for calculating pet animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U12	Only dogs are required to register in Estonia. I do not speak to a tone like that of someone else's job or concern. It is a common concern for all of us to have an overview of pets and to be registered. According to the law, this is the task of the local government, and this has been historically the case. The same procedure is, as I said, in most Member States of the European Union. In fact, I do not know any Member State where this calculation would be national. I know two or three Member States where the establishment of a national register has been discussed. These are our closest neighbours, Latvians and Lithuanians, but as far as I know, they have not yet reached this point and decided at all to establish a national register. It is a European practice that the accounts are either in a dependent register of the private sector, or dog owners' organisations, or in a local government register. In Estonia it has come so far that registers that are already operational are ready. It is only a question of when the other local authorities will join the registers they have developed. Indeed, we do not consider it necessary for the state to set up another register alongside them and to oblige the owners to register the animals there under national law. Why has not all local authorities joined the system and why has not all dog owners registered their animals? The main reason probably is that the chip is expensive and we have not made it mandatory by law to chip animals. In this respect, various organisations, animal owners and local authorities also hesitate. They have not expressed their willingness to introduce a mandatory chip for all pets at national level, which would be quite costly. That has been one reason. But the municipalities will be able to join their registers. At the same time, there are municipalities that have not joined the register, but are independently accounting for animals. I can't tell you how many municipalities there are, but there are. I think that the right and cheapest thing to do is to inform the local government leaders that there are registers. If they are managed jointly, this cost is quite low for the local government. The bigger problem is the chipping of animals, which costs the owner quite a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U13	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U14	Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I can only ask you once, so somehow I'm trying to get two questions in line. What about the state's support for chipping? We know that there have been several campaigns and even donations to target groups for whom chipping is very expensive. Is there a plan, for example, to support target groups with EU or national money? I know the manager doesn't want to allow it, but I actually want to ask you another question. The minister will decide if he answers two questions or one. Here's what I wanted to ask you. I've had a few personal experiences with a found dog whose chip was detected and it turned out there wasn't any data on it. So electronic readers and enterors have been different. Is the Minister familiar with such problems and, if so, do you know what should be done to make the chips really readable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U15	First of all, the question of whether there is public support. No, there is no public support for keeping a pet register in local governments. If local authorities are indeed prepared to join a register, then one-off support could be discussed to stimulate local authorities to do so. Rather, in my opinion, the cost of animal owners themselves is a problem. And I don't think we're gonna put public support on pet keepers now, whether it's for chipping or some other kind of support. This can be discussed, but I recognise that the priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture are not to provide public support for the chipping of pets. We don't think that's reasonable. Now question two. I haven't been in contact with any particular cases that the chip isn't readable. If so, we will certainly try to find out why and avoid it. But I have not received such information, which I conclude is that it is not quite massive. It's probably a case-by-case situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U16	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U17	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm the dog owner, and like many masters, I love my dog very much. Sometimes I get this annoying feeling that she's not very safe. Especially when I see that from summer homes, which we own a lot of other counties, dogs go into the woods like stray dogs in whole flocks. They'll just be kicked out when the cottage season is over. If there's some kind of disease spreading among them, and if my dog gets it somehow, who's responsible for it? How can local authorities solve this problem without a state? If the obligation to fight the disease is a state, what role should the local government play here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U18	I'm a dog owner, too, and my dog's been chipped. Various diseases may naturally affect animals, but the animal is primarily responsible for the health of its owner. There have been no outbreaks of massive pet diseases in Estonia lately. If there were diseases that were a threat to human health, national programmes would still be used to combat them. It's also about pets. In particular, rabies may be a threat, which is also dangerous for humans as it can be transmitted from animal to human. To avoid this, we have a national programme that we have implemented very consistently. As a result, Estonia is a country of the European Union that is almost free. We will also continue the compulsory vaccination of both wild and pet animals so that rabies does not spread. After all, it is carried from wild animals to domestic animals and may also pose a risk to humans. In order to protect against other diseases, it is still the responsibility of the owner of the animal to vaccinate him. I know a lot of animal owners can't or won't take the necessary vaccinations, but that's the responsibility of pet owners. In the case of farm animals, certain mandatory vaccinations are laid down nationally within the framework of the national programmes that we have to ensure food security. In the case of pets, it is still a voluntary decision of a human being, not an unavoidable obligation. So here the owner will certainly remain more responsible in the future than in the case of farm animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U19	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U20	Good minister! For many years, I worked on getting some land to the cemetery in Illuka municipality for Kohtla-Järve. In this regard, I have a question about pets. You drive around Estonia and see places where "Favourite Cemetery" is written on the signpost. In this regard, I would like to ask whether there are rules governing the establishment of animal cemeteries. Who's responsible, and how do we even deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U21	First of all, in addition to the previous answer, I agree that the problem of stray animals is a concern in Estonia. This concerns local authorities and also the state. At present, it is primarily the task of local authorities to resolve it. How can the state contribute better? Well, we are negotiating with animal protection organisations and there are animal shelters, which have also been publicly supported, however, systemically. So we are dealing with this issue. I hope that my response did not give the impression that the country did not consider this to be a problem. We see this problem, and we will act as a force to deal with it. But as far as the animal cemetery is concerned, as far as I know, it has not been resolved at national level. This has remained a concern of local governments and animal owners. The burial of farm animals has been resolved, as well as the treatment of their waste, but it is not regulated by law for pet animals. Perhaps this need already exists and we should think about whose responsibility it should be and what requirements should be in place there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U22	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture. Let's open the negotiations. First of all, I will give the floor to the representative of the heirs, Esther Tukkool.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U23	Madam President, thank you very much for this opportunity. For the second time, I'm kind of slow to press that button, but what the hell. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for this review. I guess this issue is raised for the reason that keeping pets is not in order. Pets have grown up a lot in recent years. Small animal clinics have also become more and more, which did not exist in Estonia ten years ago. That is why there is also a need to organise the care of pets. At present, this disease control law has, to some extent, been placed on the shoulders of the municipalities, but until the end, the area is unregulated. As I have already pointed out, only 26 local authorities have joined the private register. The participation fee for small municipalities is set at EUR 15 per month, plus VAT, if the population is more, this tax is also higher. I guess our municipalities need to read the money carefully right now, and that may be why they're trying to keep some kind of record based on their information base. At the same time, the private sector has already launched a pet register. It is expected that the state should come here and help keep the register. All the more so as, as the Minister said, there have been several round tables in the Ministry on this subject, but no result has been achieved. It is very easy to say that the country simply has no money. I think there is no desire to address this issue. In my opinion, after today, this issue could be dealt with a little more deeply and actively. It is also a question of whether municipalities or the state should support the chipping of animals and animal shelters that are constantly underfunded and struggling with those animals who are really left behind in the autumn and who are more brought to shelters. This is a very clear message to the country, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture, which also has the Food and Veterinary Office. When it comes to an outbreak, this agency also has to deal with pets. It is perfectly understandable that farm animals are very important, but we cannot deny the problems of pets either. The local governments have been so poor that they may not be able to deal with this issue exhaustively. But of course, the whole subject needs to be analyzed. We very much hope that a single reliable pet register can, however, be established. The easiest thing would be if the state took the initiative here seriously and dealt with it. We will keep an eye on this and, after a while, we will address the Minister again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U24	Thank you very much. Let me be clear: does Mikhail Stalnukhin want a two-minute line? Please, two minutes, Mikhail Stalnukhin, on the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you answered my question, the beginning was something like this: 'I also have a dog and I have it chipped. ' It sounded something like I didn't have her chipped. I'm about to reject that suspicion. In a few words, however, I would like to say that in 2003 the city of Narva adopted a procedure for keeping dogs and cats, where there was such a provision that a pet register would be established and everything that goes with it. Since there was no experience, one organization was once worked with another. In the end, however, it became clear that the crisis that began simply left no room for further action because of the lack of money. We all love animals, many love dogs. Dog owners understand what I'm talking about right now. I have an urgent request that the state should shoulder this register and resolve the issue. If each municipality starts to resolve this in its own right, the problem will persist for another 10 to 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U26	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Does the addressee of the inquiry wish to make a final statement? No, I don't. So the question is exhausted, and we are moving to the next one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U27	The next is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Neeme Suur, Eiki Nestor, Rannar Vassilyev, Kalev Kotkas, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Helmen Küti, Kajar Lemberi and Marianne Mikko to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang about the activities of the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People or MISA (No 209) this year. On behalf of the heirs, I ask for the chair of Evgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I would like to introduce you to the inquiries submitted by the ten Social Democrats regarding the activities of MISA. As the subject has received wide-ranging attention in the public media, I will not stop at all its aspects, but I will introduce the two of them a little bit more. Integration and Migration Foundation Our People, whose founding rights are exercised by the State Ministry of Culture, have been set up for two purposes according to the statute: 1) the initiation and support of activities aimed at the integration of Estonian society among Estonians and non-Estonians, and 2) the initiation and support of activities related to immigration and emigration. In accordance with the articles of association, MISA may use its funds only for the purposes of attaining those statutory objectives. In this context, the project "Known and unknown Estonia" supported by MISA received our attention, in which AS Inforing received EUR 77300 to introduce Estonian traditions to both the Russian and Estonian auditoriums. When you look at the films that have been completed and are being produced, these are the traditions of the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, the Member of the European Parliament Kristiina Ojuland, the members of the Riigikogu Mati Raidma, Andrei Korobenik and Jüri Jaanson, as well as local politicians Margus Timmo, Tiina Lokk and Janika Mölder. Out of a total of 18 films completed, the main characters are the politicians of the Reform Party; there are no representatives of other parties in these films. As a result of this, we have a question for the Minister of Culture: how should these films contribute to integration? Let's hope for an answer. The second aspect would be the question of the Foundation Our People's Management and Human Resources Policy. Since 2011, Tatjana Muravjova, a former member of the Riigikogu, is the Chairman of the Management Board and belongs to the Reform Party. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Head of our sitting Laine Randjärv. According to MISA, the Foundation's staff are not involved in the evaluation of project proposals and this is done by the Evaluation Committee. However, there are two of the five Panels, namely Olga Burmakina and Jevgeni Žurjar-Ossipov, as well as the Reform Party. Furthermore, it stands out that MISA has offered work to several other politicians and party workers in the Reform Party. After the appointment of Tatjana Muravjova as Head of MISA, Ms Muravjova Pinginaaber became the administrative director of the previous composition of the Riigikogu Ene Kaups. The Head of the Integration Fund programme for third-country nationals is Kristiina Esop. The project was funded from this fund and Kristiina Esop has been an advisor to Kristiina Ojuland in Brussels and an internal communication advisor to the Reform Party. The Reform Party is also part of the MISA Lifelong Learning Unit Coordinators Lilika Raudhein and Riina Ring, the coordinator of the Multicultural Education Unit is the former advisor of the Reform Party Group in the Riigikogu Sandra Nuudi. Since public administration must not only be honest but also appear to be honest, in view of all this governance structure and human resources policy, we ask the Minister for Culture for his assessment whether such human resources and management policies promote transparent and impartial administration in accordance with the rule of law. We hope that the Minister of Culture will give clear answers to our six questions, which also concern other issues that I did not open here, and will also read our questions in answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U29	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioners! Listening to the long introduction of the author of the inquiry, I became most afraid that this debate in Parliament would take such a strange turn, which is not very good from the point of view of compliance with the Estonian Constitution. But okay, I'll answer specific questions first. The first question: "Is and how does the financing of the film project in question fulfil its statutory objectives? ' According to the articles of association, the foundation has been created to manage and use its property for the following purposes: initiating and supporting activities aimed at the integration of Estonian society among Estonians and non-Estonians, and initiating and supporting activities related to immigration and emigration. This competition, in which the project submitted by AS Inforing received support, meets the objectives of the Foundation, the European Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals and also the integration plan adopted by Estonia. Secondly, 'Who decides on the distribution of money according to the ranking of the projects set up by the evaluation committee? ' This question has been answered several times throughout this process, but I repeat. Projects will be evaluated by an evaluation committee in MISA, which does not include the Foundation Manager and where the Foundation's staff do not evaluate. The proposal for funding shall be made by the evaluation committee by a consensual decision and, on the basis of this decision, an MMISA President's decree to allocate the grant shall be drawn up. The President shall be able to disregard the decision of the panel in substance only if a formal error has been found in the Commission's proposal itself or in the process leading to the proposal. There were no such errors in this call for proposals. The third question: 'How do you assess the situation where there are political party members in the expert committee evaluating the project, who are exclusively members of the Reform Party? Why is Olga Burmakina, Adviser to the Chairman of the Council of MISA, part of the evaluation committee? ' The question states that everyone belongs exclusively to the Reform Party, but that is not the case. At the same time, I would remind the authors of the inquiry that Article 12 of the Constitution of our Republic states that no one is to be discriminated against for reasons of his nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, religion, but also political belief. So I would not go into discussion on the political affiliation of the members of the committee. I would also like to remind you that in order to find the evaluators, MISA organised a public competition. As I said in my reply to the previous question, the applications received for the "Common Media Field and Equal Treatment" call for proposals were also evaluated by the five-member panel of experts, which included not only Olga Burmakina, who has your teeth, but also Triin Vihalemm from the University of Tartu, Hille Hinsberg from Praxis, Tallinn University researcher and PhD student Pille Petersoo from Edinburgh University, and Jevgeni Zhurjar-Ossipov from the Ministry of Culture. In order to ensure the objectivity of the work carried out by the Commission, all members of the Commission must also give assurances of objectivity and confidentiality and the Commission has not found any information or evidence to be affected. I also stress that the Commission, with only two out of five members from the Reform Party, made its decisions by consensus. Question 4: Could there have been a conflict of interest between the members of your party's fellows of the expert committee, which led to the decision to support the production of eight portrait films of the politicians of the Reform Party as part of the project to introduce Estonian traditions to both the Russian and Estonian auditoriums? " As the questioners know, neither the terms of this competition nor the applications mentioned a single word about who would be filmed and what questions would be asked, but a general description of the media project. This general description was also accepted by the Commission. In the application sent to the evaluators, AS Inforing had submitted a brief summary of the project and also submitted a target. The project application did not include names of persons planned to be interviewed in the programmes. The evaluators made their decision on the basis of a project that included the broader themes of planned TV programmes, which were interestingly blood sausage, Peipsi cucumbers, tree processing, Tallinn snails, Narva loops, Estonian liqueurs, etc. What the media manufacturer later did with the content of these programmes is, according to Estonian law, his freedom. There is no censorship in Estonia, and at least the current government does not intend to introduce censorship. If social democrats have the idea that censorship could be established in Estonia, then a corresponding proposal must be submitted to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Question 5: 'Who is responsible for the use of Estonian and European taxpayers' money to make propaganda films about the politicians of the Reform Party? Who will compensate the State for the damage suffered? " Interesting question! Let it be repeated that the calls for proposals, the objectives and the project proposals did not contain any names to be filmed. In order to reassure the authors of the inquiry, I can confirm that the beneficiary has a responsibility in the event of a deviation from the objectives of the project. The beneficiary is obliged to report to the donor and, where appropriate, to compensate the taxpayer for activities that have deviated from the objectives of the project. However, I do not think it is correct to make final assessments before a formal decision, as this is a project that is still ongoing. The final project report will be received by MISA on 27 January 2013. If it is found that the aid has been used to cover unjustified costs or the content of the project does not correspond to what was provided in the application, the ineligible expenditure under the bilateral agreement shall be recovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U31	One question was not actually answered, Question 6. But perhaps the waitress decided to answer it in the course of further questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U32	Dear Minister, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, responding in briefing to the questions of the MPs, commended his partymates for having found time to perform in this propaganda film. I don't know if you've had time to congratulate and thank your party's movie stars, but when I look around this hall, I think there are great actors in other parties. I'm sure you've noticed it yourself in this hall. My question is as follows. You said that, according to the Constitution, no one should be discriminated against for reasons of political conviction. Do you not think that you have used taxpayers' money for party purposes and that people have been discriminated against precisely because of these same political beliefs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U33	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U34	I didn't make any movies, and I didn't make any movie funding. But for God's sake, if I made a movie, I'd really consider taking you to the lead. Well, that certainly requires participation in the rehearsals. However, if you would like to participate in media products prepared under Mr Smirnov, please contact Mr Smirnov. I don't know what else to suggest to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U35	We do not know whether or not those of your party associates were to contact Smirnov themselves, but many of the film participants have confirmed that they did not quite understand whether they were on the ground or on the water. They thought they weren't making a movie. They were just giving an interview. How likely do you think that the reform parties who participated in the film didn't know they were going to be made an hour-long portrait films, and they thought they were just gonna make a comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U36	I'm the wrong person to ask! You should ask those people who have participated in one interview or another. How can I answer for Margus Timmo if he took it as a regular interview or as a part of a larger venture? Nor will I ever ask my partymates if they understood exactly what they were saying in front of the camera. Well, maybe you've been watching yourself on TV sometimes since you've said something to some cameras. Wrong address on the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U37	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U38	Dear Minister of Culture, Do you think that the conditions and governance structure of the MISA project should be changed and, if so, in what way? Still, so that there will be no future situations where the use of money can be misunderstood or even assumed that the money has been misused.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U39	MISA's management structure has nothing to do with this whole story. I think the MISA governance structure and all their activities are now much better than before Tatiana Muravjova took office. As regards my personal opinion on whether this kind of media project money should be distributed at European Union level, I have repeatedly said that I do not think it should be done. Such projects only cause serious mischief and confusion. But if they exist and there is provision for this money to be distributed, we should, of course, do so in the most transparent way possible. And transparency was ensured in the evaluation of this project. But as Prime Minister Chernomõrdin once said: as always, it turned out!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U40	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U41	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's interesting that you're here to remind me of Chernomõrdin. I just remembered the old-fashioned formulation of the 'block of communists and partyless'. The person now born can be described as a block of reformists and non-partisans - eight of the 18 films. But you can rest assured, I'm entirely on your side and I don't understand why you're being attacked. Anything can happen in life. Is it not precisely one of the basic proofs of democracy that in any process, anything can actually happen? The only question I have is, do you remember a school course called combinatorics? Can you tell me how likely it is that eight out of 18 are randomly reformists and the rest are partyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U42	I haven't studied combinatorics, I can't tell! Eight out of 18 isn't even more than half. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] By the way, I am of the opinion that the media usually interview people who have done something, not those who only talk. I guess Mr. Smirnov found it necessary to interview these eight people. That's all I can tell you today. Welcome to all those who have drawn up this topic to the Riigikogu to evaluate the final outcome of this project after 27 January! I have already said here once that we will do this as openly and transparently as possible. As far as Mr Ossinovski is concerned, he will have a personal invitation to take part in the work of this committee. I hope that the Member of Parliament will have time to devote himself, in addition to the performances, to other television programmes financed under this project. But welcome to the appreciation of all those who have something to say! I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U43	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U44	Mr. Minister for Culture! I read yesterday that you have expressed your dissatisfaction with what is happening in the Estonian National Broadcasting and raised the question of who must be responsible for it. Is that the government? He also responded to the dissatisfaction with the work of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, where I belong. I would like to ask if the situation in Estonian National Broadcasting really is, in your opinion, more disturbing than what is happening in MISA. And who should take responsibility for what's going on in MISA? It's a government-controlled connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U45	All right! I wonder how this question could be correlated with that question. If he's still correlationing, I'll try to answer. Listen to the Broadcast, what I said! I strongly recommend that you listen, not just read the quotes on some of the individual Internet portals that may sometimes have been ripped out of context. MISA is a private entity established to achieve certain objectives. MISA has its own board of directors, who is largely responsible for meeting the company's strategic objectives, and has appointed its management. The management shall be accountable to the Council. I think it's all right here. As far as national broadcasting is concerned, it would be very nice if the Broadcasting Council really could be responsible for all that is happening in broadcasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U46	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U47	Good minister! Listening to you will be very sorry for Mr Smirnov, who may be punished for being over-hit. But my question is this: have you seen these great movies yourself, and if you have, maybe you can tell me where you can find them? Here recently, Mr. Korobenik almost cried that the film he was participating in was missing from YouTube and that he himself had no copies, so he couldn't show it to me. I sincerely envy Ossinovski, who has seen these wonderful works. But it turns out that taxpayers' money was just spent, but you can't see these jobs anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U48	I don't know any portal where you can watch movies. Ask Ossinovski where he saw them. I don't know, I haven't looked at them myself. I have a huge amount of DVDs on my desk at home that I should watch, but I haven't. I'm certainly not gonna spend my time looking at that kind of product.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U49	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U50	I'll answer Yana Toom's question. Inforing website at inforing. the movies are all happy to be there, so that's where they're gonna be. But my question concerns one of the other projects that have been funded for a long time, namely the Three Corner, which I think is by far the best Russian-language social-critical and political programme produced in Estonia. As we know, there's no "Three Angle" show this season. The programmers said they couldn't get any more money out of this fund for their project. Did the Triangle money go to the Reform Party propaganda this season?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U51	Honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski! I'm not doing any project funding at MISA. I have no idea if the Triangle would qualify or not. That's what other people do, ask them. MISA phone numbers and e-mail addresses are available on the website.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U52	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U53	Good waitress! On the better days of my life, I, too, have been involved in media projects, and I know that the usual practice is that if a project is prepared, it must be the idea design (synopsis), the names to be interviewed, their photos and written consents to participate in the project. If that's not enough, even if there's a pilot, if there's not enough, there's quite a lot more. These are pretty thick, book-like applications, pretty thorough. But how did it happen now that MISA didn't know who was in the movie and what technical means was the film produced? How could it have been known to be only the amount that was right? How did this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U54	If you have really provided all this information to the manufacturer in the case of Võsa Petsi TV programmes, I deeply regret the people who were evaluators. But it is! MISA has announced one call for proposals, it has received proposals. Applications have been submitted in a certain form and have been evaluated and it has not been considered necessary to ask who will be interviewed specifically. I didn't think it was necessary! I also find, by the way, that when it comes to media products, there is an intelligent border somewhere, where the content must be opened. All the way to the details? If this is considered necessary in the future, what the Council and future committees will do. You learn all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U55	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U56	Good minister! I listened to your answer to the question. Am I right to understand that you think that all people who think that these films are not the rational use of money do not support the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and wish to establish censorship in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U57	You misunderstood.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U58	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U59	Good minister! You said that the films in question are perfectly fine and legal, that pickles and eyes and liqueurs and a whole range of reform parties have been shown, who really must not be discriminated against because of their party affiliation. Is it necessary to conclude from these answers that, ethically, everything is perfectly correct and could continue in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U60	Yes, I also hope that there will never be such a time, where the Reform Party will be deprived of its say, even though such proposals have recently been heard from here and there. As far as legality is concerned, what I want to say is that the media products in the Inforing are certainly legal in these are nothing illegal. Whether they perform their contract correctly can be assessed when the project is over. I thought I made it very clear that this evaluation could take place after 27 January 2013 when the final deadline for submitting the results of the project was set.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U61	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U62	Dear Minister, I don't think it's necessary to change the constitution. I think the Reform Party has a say today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. And I also thank you for answering the questions. We understand that the independently elected committee evaluated the projects, distributed the money between different food products, and as a result 18 films were produced, eight of which are spoken of by reform parties. I had only one question in listening to these questions and answers: how did the other ten films come about that are not Reform Party films?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U63	Ask Smirnov! If I have to, I can give you the phone number, I have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U64	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U65	Minister, thank you very much. I wouldn't be dealing with statistics, but in a lot of answers, you've basically said it's none of my business, ask other people. However, this great doubt has arisen in your administration. Have I understood correctly that if the results of the evaluation of 27 January say that everything was technically well, you believe that nothing should be changed in your administration on this issue and let it remain so?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U66	After 27 January next year, the moment will come when the contractor will have to report on its activities and then the product that it has to produce under the contract will be evaluated. And if the assessment is such that it does not comply with the contract, those amounts must be recovered. However, if the overall assessment of a very broad and transparent body is such that the contract has not been violated, what is the case? Of course, it is a matter of how to ensure that the amounts of the Media Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals can be distributed in such a way that wolves are eaten and sheep are healthy. I do not know of any fund that is involved in ordering some media products by the state or local government and which can be held to the end in such a way that there is no conflict. I don't know cases like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U67	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U68	Minister, thank you very much. In time, there was a debate on the portfolios of the Minister for Regional Affairs and the Minister for Population, namely whether or not the so-called "portfolioless" ministers would continue. You have commented in the media that one of the goals of losing the position of Minister of Population was that it was more logical to bring MISA to the Ministry of Culture and to share part of it with the Ministry of Education. That it's in such a cultural and educational set and somehow connected to the rest of our lives. Following this whole debate for several weeks, I would like to ask the following question. Are you still convinced today, stressing that MISA is completely separate and will decide its own affairs, that bringing MISA into the administration of the Ministry of Culture also brought some kind of unity and cooperation with other areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U69	Thank you, very good question. First of all, the definition of this area of administration is dancing on rather thin ice. In the end, the representatives of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Interior are already present in the MISA Council. So the whole decision-making mechanism is quite broad-based there. This does not mean, directly, that we should say that the Ministry of Culture commands, hangs and lets management be set up there. The Ministry of Education has the idea of transferring educational activities from MISA to Innove Foundation, and this calls into question the feasibility of the current management scheme of the entire MISA. But when it's born, you have to see what happens next. I'm just adding that God forbid that such media funds are distributed directly by ministerial officials. Then this would be even more complex and conflicts would be even more obvious.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U70	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister. I will first give the floor to Mr Ossinovski, the representative of the heirs in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking at length, but unlike the Minister for Culture, who said that no one can say anything here at the moment, we are waiting for 27 January when the broad Commission, together with the invited guests, will decide whether or not the result of the project will meet the requirements, it is already quite clear to us that this is a misuse of money. This use of funds does not meet the statutory objectives of MISA, nor does it meet very specific and specific criteria relating to the Integration Fund for third-country nationals. It is quite clear that, on the one hand, it is a 'technical responsibility': how to create a system that will prevent the future approval of projects that may be biased towards a particular party. It does not matter whether it is representatives of the Reform Party or any other party. On the other hand, there is also clear political responsibility. The good minister said that he is not the right addressee for most of the questions, but, as we know, in the case of MISA, the founding rights are exercised by the Ministry of Culture and according to the State Property Act, the Ministry of Culture is obliged to manage the state's assets in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner. If the MISA does not recommend either technical or political responsibility at the Council level, then it is clear that the Minister will ultimately be responsible. As regards Mr Lang's comment that no one should be discriminated against on the basis of party membership, that is, of course, absolutely clear. However, according to the exact same logic, no one should be favoured on the basis of party membership. This concerns both films and rather questionable human resources policies. Almost all people from a political background in MISA, both in the evaluation committee and among staff, have a reform party background. It's a little different in the council. The Minister also argued that it is impossible at all to implement projects of this type in such a way as to make everyone happy. They always cause a lot of trouble, and in that sense, they could end up in the first place. My question about Triangle wasn't simply put forward. This is a programme that has been carried out by national broadcasting, which has very clear rules on political balance. Perhaps some of the comrades have regretted not being invited to this show, but none of the broadcast directors or producers can be blamed for showing them any bias. We actually have good examples of how to implement such a project. I'm sure that doesn't include making an hour-long propaganda movies. At the moment, there are things that are not regulated in the MISA, and obviously this should be done. It is completely incomprehensible to us why it has been tried at different levels to look for those responsible elsewhere in this matter. We're not responsible, someone else is responsible! We have now heard from both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture the official position of the government's leading party, that ultimately everything is legally correct and no one has to answer. We believe that this is a completely abnormal approach to this problem, which can actually be resolved sensibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U72	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U73	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, but above all, ladies and gentlemen. Hands off the Minister of Culture that you pick on a man! After all, it has been clearly stated that everything happened by accident. Eighteen movies, ten non-party, eight reformers, a completely innocent situation! I asked the Minister what, according to the combinatorial theory, the probability that eight out of 18 will be reformists, and the answer was that eight out of 18 are even less than half. In fact, if you take that there are one million adults in Estonia and everyone is a champion, there are a maximum of 100,000 members of the party and there are about 10,000 of these reforms, it may be a little overstretched, but more or less, the probability that by choosing one person to make a movie with Narva's eye or Peipsi's sauerkraut, we get on the reform party is very small. So let's take 100 of the best, recalculate the transformations, that's 1: 102 is going to be a modest probability that's normal. If, of course, I remember all this correctly, it was so long ago, school and combinatorics, but a little bit I learned it, and now I'm suggesting that the probability of 10 out of 18 being partyed, eight reformers, is a minimum of 1: 1016. If someone tries to figure out this number, it's less likely than Sports Loto, where they had to guess six out of 36 or what it was. The Minister told us that he certainly would not devote his time to looking at such a product. That's how he got rid of the whole thing. Forget it! That's it. Let's wait for the next time, maybe sometimes it'll be different, seven out of 18 are reformists or ten. Somehow! Then it's possible to ask someone again. I even came here to talk because I liked that line. This could turn out to be a new political fashion. The minister comes to the Riigikogu Hall and is asked a question, as was the case with the MISA. By the way, he's almost the most famous one for me, it's nice to hear! Founder's rights are exercised by the Ministry of Culture. I mean, the master comes to talk about his servant, and then he says ask Smirnov. That's great, that solves our country's problems massively! Here comes Minister Parts, he's asked about the price of electricity, and he says ask Liive. Or maybe he'll come around and start talking about what kind of money has been pushed through the state budget like this in piles. If he is asked what was in the paper, he suggests, for example, that you ask Sel. It is a new word in our political culture! It's a very progressive word, it makes our debates short, understandable there's nothing to ask, ask, you know where! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U74	Thank you. And please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U75	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk about these movies. Clearly, the pickle and the eye of Narva cannot speak for themselves, and no one must speak for them. And if there's no one else to tell, it's nice and reasonable for the members of the Reform Party to speak for the eyes of pickles and Narva. Unfortunately, I can only conclude that anyone who gets a little into the subject will understand that these films are propaganda, political propaganda films. And to make it even clearer: these are the political propaganda films of the Reform Party. How, then, does making one of these media produce work? In any case, the design is required to tell what the application is, what the product will look like. In any case, the consent of the participants must also be given if the distribution of money by someone else is involved, if it is not a product of a private television channel or a film produced for someone's own money. It is quite understandable, because when money from the European Union or our country is placed somewhere, it is not conceivable that such films are made in the way that the Culture Minister's favorite programme "Vysareporter" has been produced. But even in order to make a media product like 'Vysareporter', the idea design was necessary, a necessary pilot, it was necessary to explain with which cameras, with which workforce it was produced. This was no longer necessary in the course of the day, but in the initial phase of work, even on a private television channel, this is required. Even so, this is required in a situation where national or European money is involved, which is self-evident. I also find it self-evident that when such strange projects have been completed, there are a lot of questions. Indeed, the Minister rightly pointed out that the distribution of money is always linked to the fights. You know, the money's a lot of trouble. That is why such bureaucracy is necessary, including in the production of media products. But what the hell, the treaty was so prepared that the political propaganda films of the Reform Party could be completed and that it could later be said that there was no violation of the law. I'm a little sad. When my pennant Viktor Vassiliev asked whether there was anything ethically wrong with these media products, the Minister did not answer that specific question. But what do you do in a situation where one of those private TV programs has also been essential for the Minister to take life lessons? It is no wonder, then, that he answers the question of whether the media products in question are ethical, that everything is legal. I think we've got an answer. I guess there was nothing ethical about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U76	Thank you very much. The addressee of the inquiry, Mr Rein Lang, would also like to have a final statement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U77	Madam President! First of all, I think it is necessary to correct the sentence that Peter Võsa said: that he produced 'Võsareporter' is one of my favorite programmes. I'm categorically rejecting that. Second of all, going to a serious wave, I'm not saying I'm surprised. But I am a little sad when the Riigikogu discusses a matter that is a private contract. Mr Ossinovski, this is a contract between a private MISA and a media producer! And before anyone has assessed the implementation of this agreement, you say that the leading party of Estonia's popularity has long become clear to itself that it is a breach of the Treaty. That's, look, a strong word! That's what you said. It's all clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U78	On the spot, please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U79	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm about to get rid of Mr. Lang's comment. I have not said that, in the opinion of the Socialists, the breach of the Treaty is certain even before this evaluation committee has met. It doesn't matter whether it is formally found that the contract was honoured or not. This agreement is relatively general. As you have already said, there is no prescription for anyone who may be in the movie. It is unlikely that it cannot be ruled out that even if the panel is very keen to find an infringement, it will not be formally found. However, it is quite clear to us that, regardless of whether the Treaty is declared to be formally and legally correct or not, it is, in essence and politically speaking, an irrational use of money, because this money had to go to promote integration. But this money has gone to promote the politicians of the Reform Party. That is why we are extremely frustrated that no one at MISA itself or at government level has at least condemned what has happened on his own behalf and has taken the view that support for this type of project is completely abnormal and that concrete measures must be taken in the future in order to rule out such a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U80	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The debate on this point is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U81	We will go to the next point, which is the question of the future of Tallinn Zoo submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Olga Sõtnik, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Kalev Kallo on 14 November 2012 (No 216). The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. I'm asking for an Olga Stranger in a speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Indeed, on 14 November we presented you with an inquiry into the future of Tallinn Zoo. More specifically, the content of the inquiry is as follows: The Tallinn Zoo Statute says that Tallinn Zoo is a polyfunctional Tallinn city institution whose main activity is to raise people's cultural and educational levels, research on animals and restoration of dying natural communities to compensate for the negative impact of humankind on nature. Among other things, in order to achieve its statutory objectives, the zoo carries out thematic schooling, provides a professional learning and internship base for educational institutions, organises study circles and supervises interest clubs, and cooperates with other research and educational institutions in large-scale research and development programmes. Thus, the zoo is located in the administrative territory of the city of Tallinn, but is an institution providing natural education of national importance. Tallinn Zoo performs the tasks assigned to zoos internationally in Estonia and participates in several international projects, including supporting animal exchange programmes with its rich collection. At the same time, the zoo cannot afford the investments it needs, as the low standard of living for people does not allow for an increase in the price of tickets without a reduction in the number of visitors. For a long time, therefore, the zoo has been waiting for the construction of a new nature school and conference centre and a new entrance building on the side of Ehitajate Road. Tallinn Zoo has built a new habitat for many residents in recent years, but some residents still have to live under poor conditions. The little cage of polar bears and the conditions are a real proof of that. The animal welfare organisation Born Free has already pointed out for several years that some animal species are not even guaranteed minimum living conditions in the zoo. In relation to the above, we have the following questions for the Minister. For you, is Tallinn Zoo an institution of national importance? Does the Government of the Republic intend to value the activities of Tallinn Zoo at both state and international level? When was the last time funds were allocated from the state budget to support investments in Tallinn Zoo? Is and when sufficient financial resources available from the state budget for the development of Tallinn Zoo? A number of members of the Central Party Group have signed an inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U83	Thank you very much. I ask for a chair of speech to be answered by Minister of Culture Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You could answer well formally, but let's try points by points. The first question: 'For you, is Tallinn Zoo an institution of national importance? ' Tallinn Zoo is, of course, an important and interesting institution in its content, but, as the heirs themselves point out, it is a local government, not a state institution. According to point 14 of the Statutes of Tallinn Zoo, this is an institution created by Tallinn City Council, which is managed by the Tallinn Cultural Heritage Board. The second question: "Does the Government of the Republic intend to value the activities of Tallinn Zoo at both state and international level? ' Here the answer is very simple: the state values the activities of Tallinn Zoo within its limits. In the last ten years, a total of EUR 2598422 has been allocated from the state budget for investments in the zoo. Not so little! Unfortunately, the City Government of Tallinn has managed to realise 2577586 euros, or for one reason or another, the city of Tallinn has not been able to find any purpose for 20836 euros in the zoo. If you ask me what the reason is, I don't know. You could ask the City Government of Tallinn for this. But when it comes to the state funding of the zoo, it is thanks to the state's money injections that the snow leopard exposure has been completed, and in the house of the thick-skinned, the rhino has acquired a new flooring. So the rhino has cause for complacency. Question 3: 'When was the last time funds were allocated from the state budget to support investments in Tallinn Zoo? ' Here again, the answer is simple. With the 2012 state budget adopted by the Riigikogu, 10000 euros were allocated to the Tallinn Zoo for investments, and that is why the rhino received a new floor. So for the second time, the rhino has cause for complacency. Question 4: "Can and when are sufficient financial resources available from the state budget for the development of Tallinn Zoo? ' Well, you yourself say that Tallinn Zoo is the institution managed by the city of Tallinn, and according to the Estonian Constitution, local governments are independent in their activities, and the state has no power to intervene in their activities. The city of Tallinn is therefore responsible for the welfare of Tallinn Zoo and questions about the financing of the zoo must definitely be submitted to Tallinn City Government and Tallinn City Council. As you have heard from previous answers, the state has helped the Tallinn Zoo and, as far as possible, supported it, and I believe that we will continue to do so in the future, depending on the state budget. But we certainly do not interfere in the management of the institutions managed by Tallinn and do not assume the responsibility to start maintaining these institutions. That would also be impossible in our legal space.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U85	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the course of the procedure on the draft state budget for the following year, we tabled one amendment, the content of which was to allocate EUR 15000 to the zoo. Unfortunately, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the large hall did not support this proposal. At the same time, between second and third readings, quite a lot of tools were found in the Riigikogu to support theatres and other institutions. What do you think would happen if the Tallinn Zoo were not an institution managed by the local government, but an institution managed by the state or, for example, the Ministry of Culture, would it have the hope of getting these unfortunate EUR 15000?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U87	Thank you. If Tallinn Zoo were a state institution, then the budget of the zoo would definitely be part of the state budget. It's not like that. Let us not now overstate this EUR 15000 in this context. The state had, yes, the most important places to put this money in when making this budget from Tallinn Zoo. It is regrettable, but it is the present reality. I am very afraid that in 2014, the country will also not be able to support the zoo with large amounts of money. Whether we have a smaller amount of money is what our economic development shows. Of course, I would like to help the zoo and I fully understand the city on this issue. Having once been the assistant mayor of Tallinn, I managed to reach an agreement that ten million kroons of the state budget in the money at the time still went to the zoo for desperate investments, and it was very good that it went. After all, the country has helped the zoo in accordance with its possibilities. So don't tell me it's just an arrogant attitude from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U88	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U89	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good answer! You got to where I wanted to start with your answer. I remember Rein Lang's been running a lot of different jobs. I was once honored to be with you at a table near the Liberty Square, where we talked about the subject of four ministers agreeing on a proposal by the mayor of relief to fund two large objects. One of them was a zoo. So you're probably quite aware that the zoo problem isn't one of those toilets where there's a city versus a country, but the zoo is objectively broke. The zoo has a lot of fang plans, and Mr. Weight is such a very interesting figure who can generate these plans over and over again. Here's the question: if you look at a more distant perspective, does the state see the zoo as a partner rather than a zoo?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U90	Thank you. Answering that would take an ugly long time. After all, I do know a little how the Tallinn budget will develop and what the priorities of Tallinn's budget are now. I deeply regret that the zoo and the cultural property as a whole are not a priority when drawing up the budget in Tallinn City Council. In this sense, I still find it very unethical that if you do not allocate enough to culture, including the zoo, you will simply present this bill to the state and spend your money on other activities, such as media activities and whatever else, such as the municipal police, which I consider to be a completely pointless structure in the city of Tallinn. I think the first question is that if the city itself really contributed to culture and education, it would also be easier to find a common language with the country to support certain activities. And the zoo would definitely be on that list.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U91	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U92	Thank you. Mr. Minister! If you listen to the Minister of Education, it is very modern today to create a system where we are talking about state secondary schools. My question is this: isn't the Ministry because Tallinn Zoo is not among the priorities, as you said, ever considered this option so that Tallinn Zoo would go under the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U93	Thank you. Once upon a time, Mailis Reps remembers this, the idea of creating two big things that have a certain national meaning of Tallinn Song Festival Square and Tallinn Zoo, to manage the city and the state on a common basis by a private person. Either way, it hasn't worked out so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U94	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have just mentioned such a pointless structure as the municipal police in Tallinn. Can you tell me who would be in charge of driving tickets and parking, small offences if it weren't? Why don't the Ministry of Culture put it on and take it on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U96	Thank you for your question. Mr Stalnukhin, I do not know that a large army of green men travelling with green light-headed cars is needed to check tickets. It can be arranged differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U97	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. We're going to negotiate. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U98	Madam President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We have this day of fauna: the first question was about dogs, the second about Narva's eyes and the Ministry of Culture, and the third is about the zoo. What I want to say is that we have a very positive attitude and we are moving towards a certain consensus. For example, no one blames the Ministry of Culture anymore. This is a very sad sentence in the question: 'The animal protection organisation Born Free has already pointed out in several years that some animal species are not even guaranteed minimum euro requirements in zoos. " No one would talk about, for example, that some had nothing, but the squirrels had everything. In this I see a quite positive attitude, and it was also a constructive answer, gave us a lot of new material to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U99	Thank you. Are there any other requests for speech or a response? No, it's not. I will close the negotiations and, with it, the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U100	The next question is an inquiry by Priit Toobali, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Mailis Reps, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Musta, Minister of Culture Rein Lang, on 14 November 2012 (No 218). On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U101	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, both in this Chamber and in front of televisions! I would like to introduce you to the inquiry submitted to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. The question is motivated by the concerns of specialists about what is happening around the digitalisation of cinemas. In Estonia, digitalised cinemas are currently only available in Tallinn, Tartu and Narva, which clearly slows down or severely restricts the appearance of new films in other cinemas. This year was 16. The Black Nights Film Festival (PÖFF), where only 40 of 270 screened films were on a 35-millimeter tape. Ms Tiina Lokk, director of the PÖFF, has announced that next year PÖFF films will no longer reach undiluted cinemas. While 73000 people visited PÖFF in 2011, in 2012 and 2013 the number of visitors may fall due to technical issues. The Ministry of Culture recently completed a programme of cinema support, which has just renewed the technique used to show films on a 35 mm tape. Edith Sepp, film adviser to the Ministry of Culture, mapped county cinemas across Estonia and stated that, in addition to the digitalisation problem, the cinema network is in a bad situation, sessions are irregular and halls need renovation. In our neighbouring country, Finland, the country and the European Union support the general digitisation of cinemas. In 2011, 283 cinemas had already digitalised there 210, the whole process will be completed in 2013. Digitalisation also increased the visibility of Finland's own films, making them more accessible: as of summer this year, 35% of all cinema visitors saw a film from their own country. In its report, IHS has found that digital technology replaces a 35-millimeter film worldwide in cinemas around 2015. That is why we have questions. What amount has been allocated to cinemas to purchase the equipment needed to display films on a 35 mm tape? Was it a reasonable and promising investment? Was the introduction of digital technology also considered when implementing the cinema innovation programme? Do you consider it necessary that, in addition to Tallinn, Tartu and Narva, there are cinemas in other Estonian cities? What is the action plan of the Ministry of Culture to digitize all Estonian cinemas, and when will this happen? What is the Ministry of Culture planning to do to improve the situation of Estonian cinemas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U102	Thank you. I ask for a chair of speech to be answered by Minister of Culture Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U103	Mr President, thank you very much. Good heirs! I wonder if I read this question for the first time, why did I remember the visit of one of Estonia's current leading politicians to the gym? But okay, now the questions. 'How much was allocated to cinemas to purchase the equipment needed to display films on a 35 mm tape? In your opinion, was this a reasonable and promising investment? ' Thank you for your question. The decision to update the film display technique on the 35 mm tape was made in Estonian cinemas ten years ago, in 2002. Through the support programmes "Maakino' and "Kino comes back' that ended today, the counties supported the acquisition of cinema equipment in the current currency totalling EUR 1092258. Why was this decision made? At the time, the current situation in Estonia and the general situation in the world were taken into account, and since the technology of the ore cinemas at the time had become obsolete, it was decided that the land cinemas would be supplied with the most available technology. Let us politely say that the very fast digital technology victory was not anticipated in Estonia at that time. The second question: 'Did the introduction of digital technology be considered when implementing the innovation programme in cinema technology? ' Wasn't considered. Digitisation of the cinema screen is clearly the subject of the last few years. The third question: 'Do you think it is necessary that, in addition to Tallinn, Tartu and Narva, there are cinemas in other cities in Estonia? ' But here's the place that what I think is necessary, and what's a function of the state, there are two different things. Of course, I'd love to have a movie in all the cities. But cinemas are predominantly privately owned in the Republic of Estonia and therefore the Estonian state cannot take full responsibility for the transition to digital technology. The development of privately owned cinemas can only be welcomed, but nowhere in the European Union has the country financed the transition to digital cinemas on its own. For its part, the Ministry of Culture is planning the development of digital cinema capabilities in state-owned multifunctional cultural centres, especially in theatre buildings. Question 4: "What is the plan of the Ministry of Culture to digitize all Estonian cinemas? When will this happen? ' Here I hope that the next question does not concern when coffee will be very good in all Estonian cafés. It's not like it's a national thing. In 2012, the Ministry of Culture really charted cinemas and cinema shows in Estonia. We assessed the current situation, needs and general opportunities. Now we must enter into negotiations. In digitalising cinemas, the state can at best be a partner, not a payer for the entire operation. In particular, cinema operators must contribute to the digitalisation of cinemas. We will then talk about the role of local authorities, and only then can we talk about state funding and European Union subsidies. The European Union, by the way, supports particularly soft activities such as training and other such things, not so much the purchase of apparatus. But for all this to happen, there must be a very clear common interest and a common commitment. Question 5: "What else is the Ministry of Culture planning to do to improve the situation of Estonian cinemas? ' Here, good questioners, I hope, of course, that you will be familiar with something like the European Union's Cinema Communication. It sets very clear frameworks for what can and cannot be done at all. Certainly, the state is not free here to distribute subsidies at all at random, because it can be interpreted as State aid in the European Union. But what can we do? We can support the display of valuable films. For this purpose, the Ministry of Culture has a separate support programme. This programme promotes the distribution of films offering an alternative to the mainstream across Estonia. In 2013, a total of EUR 245000 will be supported in Estonia, which is a very significant amount. In the old days, it was said that the hard work of self - praise can never be left to anyone else. I must therefore say that there are three cinemas in the centre of the capital with a population of 500000, even in the capital with a population of less than 500000, and now there are four cinemas that are directed at showing valuable films, there are no other capitals in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U104	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U105	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I'm sure everyone in this Chamber will agree that we are asking more about the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture. We have a clear understanding that there are quite different models, that this area of cinema is then under local governments, that it has been given to operate under local governments, or that it is a really private activity. But if we look at the logic of the old RIP and the principle of cooperation between the state, local and private structures at all, the idea was still to preserve, preserve or support culture in areas where there are not enough people to pay off in the market situation. I ask in this way: is there any good idea in the Ministry of Culture how to keep cinema culture alive in those areas where it is not worthwhile from the point of view of the market because of people's financial resources or because there are just so few people there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U106	Thank you. There's no good answer here. I'm just bringing a parallel to publishing. A year ago, when we met with the Estonian Publishers' Association, all publishers said from one mouth that they predicted the distribution of digital books by about 3 to 4% of the Estonian book market. Now it's over 20%. This development is dizzying fast. If there was anything we could learn, it would be knowing that the technology of a 35-millimeter tape, which was introduced to an extremely large number of places, grew old in five years. And if we're supposed to find oil somewhere, like inside the couch, and digitize really all the existing movies, pay for that equipment, I imagine it'll be out of date in a year and a half. I'd be very careful paying off these technological races from the state budget. Given where digital technology is going, after all, it is not going to be 3D anymore, but to 5D instead, I am afraid, for some reason, that if all this technology is available in every city in Estonia at the same time, we will simply not achieve the market because of the small size of the market. So if there is a market failure here, the country must look at where it makes the most use of its scarce resources. It is a matter of negotiation, of negotiations between municipalities, cinema operators and also of some national organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U107	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U108	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You have so fluently read out all those who should be involved in the digitisation of cinemas, from owners to local authorities. To tell you the truth, I didn't know that there was a movie on that 35-millimeter film somewhere. It's an extremely old technology, and the fact that it's a little bit fixed and updated doesn't make any difference. You can blame one, two or three, point the finger, but does the ministry also have some sort of development plan for digitalization of cinemas, where there are criteria and deadlines in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U109	Thank you. It's very sad now that you don't know that a 35-millimeter tape is still showing a movie. By the way, there is a lot of effort to show and show in Tallinn. There are most screens in Tallinn, I don't know if most, but at least half of the screens are still 35 millimeters and movie boxes are still being carried. The technology, of course, is moving in that direction, that 35 millimeters will soon be gone. If you ask whether the Ministry of Culture has a plan to digitize private cinemas, it will not, and the Ministry will never do so. If the cinema owner is a private person, he still has to make sure he is competitive on the market. We can talk about supporting and interfering with the display of valuable films where the market failure is so great that the cinematographer cannot afford to buy new equipment on his own, but in the public interest, it needs to be done. That would perhaps be the correct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U110	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U111	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is a shame that the state does not take this on itself, as you said. But I see that cinema theatres exist in Tallinn, Tartu and Narva, both in private hands and in municipal property. In this respect, I have the question: have they not addressed the Ministry or the State with a proposal to extend this system, perhaps through support? To expand because the business is still trying to expand its possibilities to reach people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U112	Thank you. I drew attention here to a matter such as the European Union's Cinema Communication, which does not allow private businesses to pay indiscriminately. For this purpose, a State aid authorisation should be requested from the European Commission. And as our practice shows, digitisation is also possible without state intervention. Narvaski, for example, has a digital screen in Astri cinema. The cinematographer himself considered it necessary to make this investment, the state did not support it, but the business is doing very well. There is one more thing we need to take into account here: the transition to digital technology means significant cost savings in the handling of movies - significant savings!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U113	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U114	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to remind you that, in answering one question, you said that local authorities had a role to play in developing the digitalisation process, and you promised that you would talk about it a little later. But I didn't tell you. For nine years, I had the law on the organisation of local government, KOKS. And, you know, I don't recall from § 22 that one of the possible fields of work or responsibilities of a local government is to digitize. Can you comment on your sentence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U115	Thank you. Why can't I? We were talking about this digitalization, obviously you didn't notice. I have not seen the obligation of the state to digitize cinemas in any Estonian legislation once again, so I could respond to you in this way. However, it is up to the local authorities to deal with all the issues of local life on their own, as provided for by the Constitution. And if the local community in Estonia considers that the local government could also have a cinema, there is nothing illegal here. So if you do not find such a point in the KOKS that the cinema is an obligation, this does not mean that the local authority cannot either maintain the cinema on its own, for example, support the digitisation of the equipment of the local cultural centre, or support the local operator as well. It's not forbidden, Mr. Stalnukhin, not one piece! It depends on the interest of the local community. It should not be assumed that it is only the state that is acting in the public interest in some communities. It is still primarily a local government that has to deal with it. With the attitude that let the state do, the local authorities are watching, we have been in contact in Narva for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U116	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U117	Thank you. Worth movies. Good minister! I am a great film friend, and I have to acknowledge that Estonian Television has brought valuable films to the screen and hopefully they will be shown for many, many months, perhaps even years. Has this been done in cooperation with the Ministry? Has the Ministry offered any help in drawing up this very grateful program?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U118	Thank you. As far as the national broadcasting film programme is concerned, of course, the Ministry of Culture cannot and has not intervened in any way. But you were actually quite right to say that watching movies is not the only way to go to the movies. There are TV channels that broadcast not only entertainment films but also valuable films, especially Estonian Television. Many of the film channels are available through Elion's system. In Estonia, VOD, or video, has already developed quite highly. All of this is competitive for cinemas. The prices of home cinema equipment have also fallen dramatically lately. So all of this actually affects cinemas, affects the economic situation of cinemas and, in connection with this, seeks a new outlet for cinemas, seeks new technology that competes with home cinemas. What's there to deny, a technological race is extremely fast. Now, just hope that the state will go along with this race, and it will not be much to hope for.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U119	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. We're opening negotiations. Speaking chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U120	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, for God's sakes, I'm sorry if I've saddened you or upset you with something! There's such a thing as the truth, and you can't be offended by the truth. Narva is really used to some things. For example, by watching the state with a cold stomach, the company, which employs 13 000 people, as it was in the Kreenholm Manufaktuur in 1989, finally gets a mini-company with 400 employees and that's what's going to be closed down. Narva is accustomed to a situation where a country whose duty is to deal with cross-border crossings is watching for three years calmly watching us pay off huge millions of city budgets, a total of eight million kroons at then's prices, the costs of cross-border crossings. And do you think, colleagues, has anyone compensated the city for this money? Never! We are used to the fact that if a positive decision is taken on us, it will be done in the strange way that happened to the University of Tartu, Narva College. The whole city opposed the building being built on the Town Hall Square, above all because it crucified our desire to rebuild the Old Town of Narva. For who will now follow the rules and requirements to build in the baroque style of Narva when this pile of bricks stands opposite the town hall? Everyone has moved more or less in the same direction, and all that we have achieved in the city has been done above all by the narcs themselves. This positive result, which we achieved before the 2009 crisis, was not on our shoulders there. But I'm in a very positive mood today. I am pleased that the Minister began to express himself sincerely, not hid his position behind any round sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U122	Let's go to the final question, which is the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Olga Sõtnik, Enn Eesmaa, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korb, Priit Toobali, Mailis Repsi. A request for information on the restructuring of the Russian Theatre submitted on 15 November 2004 (No 234). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U123	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rein Lang! During the summer, the leadership of the Russian Theatre was replaced under your leadership. Marat Gatsalov, Russian director, Tõnu Lensment, was appointed as the new artistic director and Ragnar Siil became the chairman of the Supervisory Board. In order to push through a suitable exchange of pictures for you, the composition of the theatre council had to be changed, which was also done. You have justified your decision, inter alia, by the fact that the Russian Theatre is extremely low and there is no point in maintaining such a theatre. In an interview with the Raplamaa Messages, you have strongly criticised the Russian Theatre. Quote: 'I do not understand why Tallinn should have a cheap and unquality Russian provincial theatre, which it has been for years. It's bad. " You have also expressed dissatisfaction that the Russian Theatre does not use its house more specifically. Quote: 'And if the Russian Theatre alone cannot burden this house with its performances, it must be opened for guest performances to other theatres that have not been performed so far. Including, by the way, professional Russian troupes from Ida-Virumaa, which we have two, in Narva, the theatre Ilmarine and Kohtla-Järvel theater Windmill, who has not been allowed to play there for any inexplicable reason. ' The Council and the Ministry have expressed their hope through the media that if the negotiations with Gatsalov are successfully concluded, they will be able to increase the number, quality and audience of performances with his help. At the same time, it is known that, under the leadership of Svetlana Janchek, the theatre has made significant economic progress. During the 2011/2012 season, the theatre's visitation increased by 45% and the theatre's own income increased by 10%, representing 40% of the total revenue base. According to Deloviy Vedomost, this was the fastest economic growth in the history of the theatre. In addition, last year the theatre got rid of debts. The wages of actors and other employees increased by 7% over the year. On this point, we have six questions for the Minister. I'll read two of them. The first question: 'If the assessment of the theatre level is not based on economic results, it is undoubtedly subjective value. Since you have never been seen in the Russian Theatre performances in the last season, please explain who gave an assessment of the level of Russian Theatre in the media. Why haven't you published the names of these people? The fourth question: " For what reasons do you think that the house in the Liberty Square is too big for the Russian Theatre and should it be shared with others or moved elsewhere? " In addition to these, there are four other questions, a total of six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U124	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Please, Mr. Minister of Culture, to the speaker's desk! Report!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! It is like music to my ears, Mr Stalnukhin, that one of the theatre's repertoire policy and economic results are of interest to the Riigikogu Group! I hope that you will continue to have an equal interest, for example, in your own local theatre troupe Ilmarine, whose financing has been significantly reduced by the local government under your leadership. I guess everyone has their priorities. But now to the questions. 'If the assessment of the theatre level is not based on economic results, it is undoubtedly subjective value. Since you have never been seen in the Russian Theatre performances in the last season, please explain who gave an assessment of the level of Russian Theatre in the media. Why haven't you published the names of these people? ' This is certainly one of the top issues of parliamentary culture! First of all, I'm asking if you're watching my walks or where the information is that I've never been to the Russian Theatre. Just because your source hasn't seen me at the Russian Theatre shows doesn't mean I haven't been there. I wonder if you're conducting any kind of private surveillance on where I go and where I don't. First of all, an assessment of the economic performance. During the 2011/2012 season, the theatre's visitability and its own income really increased to a considerable extent, but the economic situation of the theatre is a more complex issue than the newspaper columns try to show it. For your information: During this period Andrei Korobeinik, a reformist of the theatre council, was the leader of the theatre council. For years, the Russian Theatre has been subject to an overdraft obligation, which was covered by additional resources allocated from the state budget. Theatre's own income is not burdened with the fulfilment of this obligation. At the end of 2010, when Paul Himma was director, the total short-term liabilities of the theatre amounted to EUR 53651. In 2011, the theatre manager Svetlana Janchek, who probably is your source of information, failed to pay back the last payment of the overdraft without the approval of the Council for a total amount of EUR 153000. The funds allocated from the state budget to cover overdrafts were used to cover the operational costs of the theatre. I would leave the rest of the text unread, it's quite embarrassing. The renewed Supervisory Board of the Theatre has worked with the Governing Board to reduce the volume of liabilities by at least half at the end of the year. Ultimately, during the previous management period, the Russian Theatre was certainly not a model of economic success, as someone would like to show. A lot has been said about the weakness of artistic levels in previous years. Many people have expressed their views on the artistic level of the Russian Theatre, from the Theatre Counsellor of the Ministry of Culture to critics who spoke on newspaper columns, not to mention leading theatricals. All it takes is to look at the lack of awards and nominations received by the Russian Theatre and the number of invitations to international theatre festivals to be concerned about the artistic level of the theatre. Fortunately, we were able to become the new artistic director of the theatre Marat Gatsalov. As proof of this, the 19th Festival Golden Mask finalists were announced in Moscow on 15 November. Marat Gatsalov's work became worthy of five categories at a time, claiming, among other things, the prize in the most prestigious category of the festival with such a performance as 'August'. Osage County at the Novosibirski Theatre Globus. Another interesting question: 'What show did you mean when you were talking about the wolf and the kids? ' Thank you very much! As for the quote, the exact sentence in the interview was as follows: "How long do you still play the kids and perhaps the wolves? Now there were three Musketeers. 'Mr. Stalnukhin, this is a metaphor. Question 3: 'You shared Gatsalov's view that growth was essential for the theatre, and you accused the theatre that young people would try to leave for Russia if possible. At the same time, you have praised the desire of the new artistic director to train future actors at Viljandi Culture Academy. What measures are you planning to take to avoid the departure of these future actors? ' That is now an appropriate question. In summer 2013, the University of Tartu Viljandi Culture Academy will adopt a Russian-language course of actress students. The survival of future graduates in Estonia is, of course, the choice of the students themselves. At the same time, the Russian Theatre is doing everything to make the Russian Theatre the first preference for them in Estonia. This Viljandi course is the first time in the history of Russian-language theatre studies in Estonia when the whole study process is conducted in Estonia, in this cultural area. The stronger the artistic level of the Russian Theatre, the more the Russian Theatre is integrated into the international theatre life, the better the actors can cooperate with, the greater the chance that young actors will remain in Estonia after graduation. Question 4: "For what reasons do you think the house in the Liberty Square is too big for the Russian Theatre and should it be shared with others or moved elsewhere? " Now here the good questioners have got it all wrong. I'll explain. The question is not whether this building is too large or too small for one theatre, but how space is used. If the theatre doesn't use the building for full performance, every house is too big for the theater. The previous management of the Russian Theatre was not able to use 100% of the resources with a total of 720 seats after two halls, while other theatres have not had enough opportunities to find playgrounds in Tallinn. The current management of the Russian Theatre aims to keep these places occupied by offering at least three-quarters of their performances and one-quarter of their guest activities. After all, it is a good thing that other theaters can use the Russian Theatre's free time to give their own performances. Question 5: "Do you not find it strange that the new management intends to work throughout the season according to the plan and agreements drawn up by Janchek? What was the need for an exchange if real changes were to take place no sooner than in the next season? " The question bears witness to the fact that the questioners do not have an overview of the normal rhythm of the repertoire theaters. Indeed, more than half of the new productions for the 2012/2013 season are planned during the term of office of Svetlana Janchek, who has signed early contracts with directors and artists, which, above all, are either impossible or unreasonable in view of the economic plan. Similarly, Svetlana Janchek began its first season in 2011/2012. Based on the specificity of the work of the repertoire theatre, it is self-evident that new productions for the coming season will be agreed by the end of the previous season at the latest. At the same time, the current new management has taken control of the new productions of this season very strongly. Control performances have been raised to a week earlier than usual in order to enable the creative director to intervene to ensure better artistic quality. However, the new productions for the spring season 2012/2013 have already been planned as a whole by the new management. Question 6: "What is the plan to do with a small house in the courtyard of the theatre that belonged to corporates before the war and is now owned by the theatre? " For the red house in the courtyard of the Theatre, a plan of action has long been in place, many years ago. Unfortunately, there has been no significant progress in this regard during the previous board of the theatre. The new management of the Foundation has put this issue on the agenda. The Russian Theatre often needs to accommodate guest performers, artists and actors, and the red house is planned to be renovated as a guest house belonging to the theatre. The garage and workshop sided with the building will be reconstructed and equipped with a decoration warehouse function. According to current estimates, conversion work will not be excessively costly, so the theatre intends to cover these costs through various grants and from its own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U126	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your very clear answers. Sounded good, looked good. There's only one thing that needs to be clarified. If Kohtla-Järve Windmill or Narva Ilmarine wishes to perform in Tartu, will you support this wish and request that Vanemuine give them her stage to use?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U128	Thank you! The Vanemuine stage is very loaded. If the Vanemuine stage is free, of course I support it, to understand for myself. If the theatre building is not loaded and is not given to other theatres for guest performances, I do not understand this behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U129	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U130	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's great that all the things you're talking about go well at the Russian Theatre. But a few weeks ago, the people of the Russian Theatre were at an exhibition in Kohtla-Järve, and then it was said that it was very difficult for them to go somewhere beyond the Tallinn border; there is no money. On the other hand, if the local government comes to their aid, there will still be no money left. It would be nice if in the future we could really get some support from the state so that they can come out of Tallinn's borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U131	Thank you. The Russian drama theatre, of course, would not have a problem with giving its own performances in Ida-Virumaa, as there is quite a guaranteed full house. There's just not a lot of theatres to go there. This is what we have tried to communicate to the Russian Theatre by the Ministry, and the new director has certainly taken this course of work into the agenda. They now have a separate Ida-Virumaa programme in progress. The Ministry of Culture also has a support programme such as "Theatre for Land" through the Estonian Folk Culture Development Centre, from which the theatre can apply for support. In fact, this support can be applied for by the local government to offset certain theatrical costs. This system works very well, only I feel that the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa are not aware of it. So please let them know that there is a "Theater for Land" programme and that it is possible to cover some of the theatre expenses in the case of guest performances. I completely admit that the Russian Theatre has so far been very sluggish to visit Ida-Virumaa. The new leadership will certainly hope to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U132	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U133	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I will say very briefly that if your party partner, Minister of Finance, Ligi, restores to local governments that percentage of income tax, which was simply torn out of our wallet years ago, in the case of Narva, it was about 15 million kroons at the time, then we can agree: you will set that percentage again at 11.93 and we will restore the financing of a lot of other things besides Ilmaris theatre funding, which were left 'thank you' to you and your party associates without any money. Secondly, I do not see the point in discussing specifically the things that sounded here. I remembered a story from the 1960s about another minister of culture, the only Soviet minister who remembers more or less intelligent people. It was Furtseva, no one remembers the other ministers. There's a lot of fun stories about him, but unfortunately, the funniest stories are uncensored, so I'll tell you the average. Furtseva has come to the Paris cultural festival and is marching towards the palace where the event takes place. There's an artist who's been asked for permission before he gets to the door. 'I don't have it, I'm Picasso,' he answers. 'Draw something! ' Picasso draws his famous pigeon. 'All right, come on in! ' Then Furtseva says: 'I don't have a permit with me. ' 'Nothing, can you prove that you are the Minister of Culture? Before you stood here Picasso and he proved it. ' Furtseva asks, "Who is Picasso? " He is told: " Come in! ' Our conversation today gave me some analogy with the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U134	I don't think so, but thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to sign up for the speech of a free microphone after the hammer hit. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U136	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I want this story to sound from this bleacher. This is a jock scheme, or possible corruption. I will just read to you what events have taken place this year in a small town in Estonia. On 28 June 2012, a meeting of the City Council of Narva took place, where a new structure of the Narva authorities was decided, in which there was no public utility department of the City Property and Economics Department. The session was held on 28 June and the new structure was due to take effect on 2 July. One day before this sitting, on 27 June, the Director of the City Property and Economics Department, Mrs Tamara Luigas, who is a member of the Social Democratic Party, as far as I am aware, was released from office by the Director of the Municipalities and Economics Department, and, on 1 June, by order No 101-k of 27 June, took up his duties and appointed Mr Riho Sillar as Head of the Municipalities and Economics Department from 2 July 2012. And it wasn't just like that, but with a salary of EUR 1188.5, an extra fee for service and a qualification corresponding to a master's degree. Maybe a total of about one and a half thousand euros. The city official, who for several months knew which decision would be taken on 28 June, placed on 27 June everything legally correct, the yokk-scheme, I don't know whether to be a friend or a friend or a relative, or a relative, from which the city administration had to fire him in a few days' time. This did not happen immediately, as from July 5th, both Tamara Luis and Riho Sillar remained on the sick list. Probably there was a pandemic, I don't know, I don't know what happened to them, but they were sick for over two months, and Mr. Sillar was only able to concentrate on 17 September, as decided by the council. In total, 7206 euros were paid out of the city's pocket, the city budget, and 5552 euros were paid after tax. In addition, social security contributions amounting to EUR 2300 and a little more unemployment insurance contributions had to be paid. The city is absolutely convinced that this is a crook, that it is the same scheme that is known to be about to be laid off, but a person is hired for a few days to receive all these holiday allowances, etc. It cost our town 150,000 kroons in old money, which is a lot of money. The city turned to the police and the prosecutor's office, but no one took the matter up. In this country, the police and the DA's office don't care, they lie, they cheat, the crooks give each other money, everybody cares. I believe that this is, however, a possible case of corruption. Once again, I call upon the Minister of Internal Affairs and Justice to pay attention to this case, because, as far as I know, they sometimes initiate criminal cases with complete certainty after leaking some information from this courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-10_U137	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. That means our hearing is closed. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 5.24 p.m.
