ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Very respected guests! Good morning. We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Good fellows! Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a bill to hand over. A healthy and working nation is an integral part of a strong state. Therefore, public policy should encourage employers to invest in the health of workers. At present, however, there is a situation where the tax policy of the state penalises those employers who contribute to the health and employability of workers. Unhealthy lifestyles, ill health and early mortality among the working age population do not allow us to fully exploit the labour potential. According to the World Health Organisation, Estonia loses up to 15% of GDP due to poor public health. Therefore, it is high time to exempt travel expenses from the so-called'special preferential tax'. The main argument put forward by Skeptics is that wage costs will therefore be reduced. In fact, it is honest companies that are suffering. The fear that in the future employers will pay workers in swimming pools or aerobics lessons is unjustified and cynical. Therefore, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act, which states that the employer's expenses for sports expenses, which do not exceed EUR 500 per calendar year, shall not be considered as a special advantage. As a young man and a younger member of the Riigikogu, I hope that this bill will receive the support of several political parties and many MPs. The reason is very simple: if you look at your electoral promises, you can see that at least three of the four parliamentary parties included this point in the electoral promises. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U3	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to be made to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. The content of the inquiry is that according to the Legal Aid Act, an application for legal aid in Estonia can only be submitted in Estonian and English. People who speak English in Estonia and whose home language is English are much less than those whose home language is Russian. In this context, we have five questions for the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors. If an inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's get to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 22 February, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee and has appointed it as the lead committee of the Legal Affairs Committee. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu and the Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U6	Today, we have one item on the agenda, as an important national issue, a foreign policy debate. I will present to you the procedure for the debate on this important national issue. Pursuant to § 153 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Bureau appointed the following procedure for discussing a matter of fundamental importance. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet's presentation lasts up to 30 minutes, questions and answers last up to 60 minutes. The presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will last up to 20 minutes, and the questions and answers will last up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Subsequent negotiations. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. We are going to the foreign policy debate. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U7	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. Good ambassadors! Good guests! The President of Estonia, Lennart Meri, has said: 'In a changing world, he who walks with the world wins a little faster than the world does. ' This is also our aim in foreign policy in order to be as responsive and proactive as possible to the changes taking place in the world, whether in terms of security or well-being. Estonia is also increasingly connected to more distant regions, but we continue to have a large part of our daily ties with another Europe. In short, the main foreign policy objectives of the government this year are: 1) to protect Estonia's security interests at the NATO Chicago Summit; 2) to contribute to resolving the economic and debt crisis in Europe; 3) to support Estonian entrepreneurs in the world. As a result, the network of our representations and its further development also require attention. Good listeners! In the light of crises, there is a danger of forgetting the rest. However, it is important to us that, in the shadow of other problems, our security, which is a foundation without which there is no other welfare, is not undermined. NATO's next summit will take place in Chicago in May, where the allies will review NATO's defence capabilities to meet today's needs. The leading role of the United States is also important after some reduction in defence spending and in European forces. The US remains connected to Europe, but Europe's allies obviously need to do more. The Alliance must jointly ensure that deterrence is not reduced. Estonia's defence expenditure is 2% of GDP in 2012. We have therefore fulfilled our commitment at the time of our accession to the Alliance. According to current assumptions, besides Estonia, there are only three NATO members who will do so in 2012. This is not a symbolic milestone, but a real need and we must ensure that the 2% requirement remains among NATO's main objectives. It must not be forgotten that there are many countries outside NATO that are raising defence spending. Thus, for example, the ongoing militarisation of Kaliningrad, as well as the strengthening of the armed forces in the Leningrad and Pihkva regions, raises concerns in the nearby region. Good Riigikogu! I am pleased that on 8 February the North Atlantic Council approved the continuation of the NATO air security mission in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The current and ongoing solution to air security is a good example of the successful implementation of the intelligent use of allies' common resources and capabilities, the so-called smart defence concept. The Ämari air base, the largest defence facility in Estonia, will also play an important role in ensuring air security in the future. Security policy, including changes in the US defence budget and military missions, will play a major role in the forthcoming US Presidential elections from an Estonian and European perspective. It is very important to us that the US remains committed to strong alliances with Estonia. Estonia does not take this close relationship for granted. There is active bilateral and multilateral work to do this. By participating in the Afghanistan mission, Estonia and its allies contribute to our common security. Afghanistan remains a priority country for Estonia, both in the area of security policy and development cooperation. Unfortunately, action in Afghanistan has, in many ways, been very expensive for us. We remember with respect the Estonian Defence Forces who have fallen for the protection of the lives of other people and Estonia's security, including Corporal Agris Hutrof. In Chicago, the Alliance wishes to endorse the strategic plan for action in Afghanistan, which will determine the activities of the mission in the coming years. Last year, the process of transferring security responsibility began, during which Afghanistan gradually takes over responsibility from the international mission forces. The transition process has also started under the responsibility of the Estonian Defence Forces in Helmand Province. In order for the Afghan people to trust their armed forces and our role in Afghanistan to be reduced, they must, above all, trust their country. The conference on Afghanistan held in Bonn on 5 December also confirmed the continuation of international assistance for at least 10 years after the transfer of security responsibility to Afghanistan itself. Development cooperation with Afghanistan is of growing importance for Estonia. We will continue with the management of health care issues and the launch of a training centre for medical personnel on the reconstruction team in Helmand Province. In Kabul, we focus our activities on education and good governance. We will continue to contribute to the NATO Training Mission and the European Union Police Mission. We want to help Afghanistan reach its own ability to provide primary services and their development to its people. An important security policy area in which Estonia is active and remains active is cybersecurity. NATO has endorsed the principles of cyber security policy and the Action Plan for their implementation. Last year, activities continued to involve allies in the competence centre of NATO cyber defence in Tallinn. Joined the US and Poland, and hopefully the Netherlands and Turkey will soon do the same. We also want cybersecurity to improve as a result of the European Union, the Council of Europe, the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Two years ago, NATO Foreign Ministers met for the first time in Tallinn, Estonia. This year's grand event is the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Estonia. With the participation of 28 countries and 14 partners, we are discussing the future development of NATO. This is a good opportunity for Estonia to address important defence topics for us. We also want to develop a common security and defence policy for the European Union. It supports and complements NATO's role as the main guarantor of our security. Clearly, the European Union must make more effort in this area. The government supports the so-called Weimar Trio initiative of Poland, France and Germany aimed at strengthening the European Union's crisis management capacity. Pooling capabilities is particularly important at a time when Member States' defence budgets are declining. However, the European Union's capacity to plan and manage missions and operations needs to be improved. The European Union must have a real rapid response capability and for this purpose Estonia is ready to continue its participation in the next Nordic Battle Group. A concrete example of contributing to the European Union's security and defence policy is participation in the anti-piracy operation Atalanta in cooperation with France and Germany. Estonia intends to continue contributing to the civilian missions of the European Union, the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe alongside its military missions. Last April, the Act on Participation in the International Civilian Mission, which organises the secondment of experts to civilian missions, entered into force. Estonia has currently sent 17 civilian experts to international missions. However, we need to contribute even more in this area in the future. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The European debt crisis is at the heart of international attention. This is not a crisis of the euro, because excessive debts and deficits are a problem regardless of currency. The solution can be responsible fiscal policy. Estonia has succeeded well, but any sense of superiority would be inappropriate. The neighbour's concern is also our concern; in the context of the internal market, it is self-evident. However, we can be satisfied because the image of Estonia in the European Union improved last year: we joined the euro, our economy turned up, the headquarters of the IT agency comes to Estonia. 'Don't forget the Estonians. They are the best Europeans,' said Otto von Habsburg as early as 1993 in London. I mentioned earlier the danger that crises may pose to security. The inability to perceive reality and adapt to changed circumstances has been highlighted by populists in many parts of Europe. Both right-wing and villainous are willing to fill the empty spaces left in the European political landscape after the departure of great figures such as Václav Havel and Otto von Habsburg last year. All the more so, we need clear support for balanced and sensible policies and more faith in our country. Europe has the preconditions for a successful exit from the crisis. The Member States of the European Union have strengthened financial discipline, mutual macroeconomic surveillance, financial rules. We have agreed to reduce debt and deficit. We have created reserve funds, and the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) of a temporary nature is becoming a permanent European stability mechanism. European countries are not the only ones with high debt burdens, yet we are the ones who have done the most to control them. This is further reinforced by a fiscal agreement between 25 countries, which I hope will be extended to the whole of the European Union in the future. It is also worth recalling the unique free movement of people, capital, goods and services in the world. Although the European Union still has much to do to improve competitiveness, further development of the existing internal market, including the development of a single digital internal market, is the most effective tool in the European Union to stimulate growth. So I would extend what I said about believing in my country to the whole of Europe. Good listeners! The continued implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) is also important for enhancing European security and prosperity. Last December, the European Union decided to open negotiations with Moldova and Georgia for comprehensive and comprehensive free trade agreements. Last year the negotiations on an association agreement with Ukraine were concluded, but the signing of the agreement depends first and foremost on Ukraine's internal development. In the country's current political situation, it is only possible to communicate with Belarus by supporting civil society, the opposition and the independent media, which we have done in search of new opportunities. But things have to change. Human rights violations in Belarus, in the middle of Europe, are not acceptable. The pivotal processes that began in Europe's southern neighbourhood, or a large part of the Arab world, have brought Estonia's growing attention to developments there. We will explore ways to help build up democracy-supporting institutions or develop technical solutions to make more widespread use of e-governance opportunities there, for example, in Tunisia. The whole world will prevail if the Arab nations are able to find a path towards a more free and fairer society in the fall of corrupt and autocratic governments. The Syrian people also need support from the international community today. The European Union, like the West in general, will continue to put pressure on the regime there, even if some countries are trying to stop it. In addition to the changes of the Arab countries, the organisation of Israel-Palestinian relations continues to require attention. Both people have the right to live in peace and a secure environment. However, a two-state solution is a prerequisite for this. Despite the complexity of the situation and the seemingly deadlock, it is important to continue international efforts to create the atmosphere needed for bilateral negotiations. A solution will only be possible if one-sided steps can be avoided in the future. The events in Iran that threaten the whole region, including the peace process, must also be closely monitored. As regards the enlargement of the European Union, the most important achievement was the conclusion of the accession negotiations with Croatia last June and the signing of the Accession Treaty at the end of last year. In March, we will submit the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the Riigikogu for ratification. Croatia's accession to the European Union is a good example that the European Union will keep its promises if all the agreed conditions are met. I hope that we will soon be able to start accession negotiations with Montenegro and also with Macedonia and give Serbia the status of candidate country. The rapid progress of negotiations with Iceland could lead to soon accession to the European Union. Turkey has been and will remain important to the European Union. The accession process, which is beneficial both for Turkey itself and for the European Union, must continue. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! North Baltic, the so-called NB8 region, is one of the most dynamic regions in the world. In politically, economically, financially, socially and in other areas, everything in these countries is either very good or relatively good. This is also true if we include Germany and Poland, in addition to the NB8, which will further strengthen the Baltic Sea region. As Chairman of Baltic Cooperation last year, we focused on three areas: energy, transport and the knowledge-based economy. The development of Rail Baltic is crucial. The clear support of Finland and Poland for this project is also important for foreign policy. Speaking forward, 2014 will be the year of the Baltic Sea for Estonia, as we are at the same time the chairman of NB8, Baltic cooperation and also the Baltic Council. Sustainable energy is one of the most important issues for both Estonia and our closest neighbours in the European Union. The most important thing here is the interconnection of energy and gas markets. The European Commission has done very good work to start linking the energy islands to the EU's core market. The Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Plan is the best example of this process. As EstLink 2's electric cable is completed, Estonia's connection to the Nordic electricity infrastructure will be significantly improved. The issues to be resolved in the year ahead are the conclusion of a contract for the construction of the Visaginas nuclear power plant in Lithuania and the agreement on the location of the regional LNG terminal. One of the biggest challenges in the coming years is the full integration of the energy systems of Estonia and our Baltic partners into the European Union. One of Estonia's main priorities is the Baltic Sea Strategy. During the Polish Presidency, good work has been done to further develop the strategy, which we also hope will continue with Denmark. For the strategy to be supported by the necessary financial means, we hope to renew the Baltic Sea Strategy agenda during the Danish Presidency. We are also working to ensure that the new funding principles are also enshrined in the next budgetary framework of the European Union. Good Riigikogu! It is important that the European Union continues to support the development of democracy, the rule of law and civil society in Russia. I hope that one day the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe will also be able to give a positive assessment of the degree of freedom of the Russian elections. The strengthening of civil society in Russia is to be welcomed. After almost twenty years of negotiations, Russia is joining the World Trade Organisation. This will also have a positive impact on our trade relations. The most important issues for Estonia are the reduction of Russian export duties on roundwood and the convergence of rail tariffs for freight within and across Russia. The upgrading of contractual relations was central to relations between Estonia and Russia. Last year we signed the pension agreement and the implementing protocol to the readmission agreement. We also changed the border crossing agreement. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The world around us affects Estonia more than ever. The issues that we saw far away twenty years ago require more and more attention. Estonia's goal is to be elected to the UN Human Rights Council in the elections this year for the years 2013 to 2015. Protection and promotion of human rights is one of Estonia's priorities. We have intensified international action on human rights year after year, with a particular focus on women's and children's rights. From the point of view of standing up for human rights, it is important that the Assembly of the Member States of the International Criminal Court is chaired by an Estonian representative in the next three years. This is a recognition of Estonia's activities so far in supporting the International Criminal Court and international tribunals. Estonia is the rule of law. Therefore, freedom of expression and expression on the Internet has recently been at the centre of our particular attention and will continue to be so. Freedom of expression is also a human right in the cyber environment, and the government stands for this principle. At the Hague High Level Conference on Internet Freedom held in December, Estonia joined the coalition of states, which follows the principle that freedom of expression is also a human right in the cyber environment. Access to the Internet needs to be supported and expanded. Freedom of expression on the Internet will certainly become one of the issues that we will be developing internationally when we become a member of the UN Human Rights Council. Good listeners! Development cooperation illustrates the country's global responsibility. We want to increase the share of official development cooperation in the state budget to at least 0.17% of GDP by 2015. Our contribution to development cooperation is increasingly linked to the promotion of e-state services and support for partner countries in developing this area. Afghanistan, which I have already mentioned, and the countries of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union continue to be the priority of Estonia's development cooperation. We mainly focus on Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus. The issues that are important to us include, in particular, strengthening the education sector, promoting good governance and democracy and supporting the economy. Supporting the reform processes of the Eastern Partnership countries and training for officials has been concentrated in the Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre since last year. From year to year, Estonia has directed humanitarian aid to crisis areas such as South Sudan, Pakistan, Libya and the Ivory Coast to alleviate human suffering. In addition to the victim-rich earthquakes in Japan and Turkey, the world's attention had been paid in 2011 to the Horn of Africa, which experienced the greatest famine in the last twenty years. Globalisation creates both new needs and opportunities. From the Estonian NGO initiative 'Let's do it! ' started with the global 'Let's do it! '. This year's goal is to collect 100 million tons of garbage in 100 countries with 100 million participants. This is another vivid example that if our initiatives are good, the world will adopt them. Fertility does not mean limitation. Good listeners! Estonia must grow in the world as well as in Europe and also in the world with Europe. Asian economic growth and global attention to the whole region are also reflected in Estonian foreign policy. This is a promising region with a great deal of potential for us. Figuratively speaking, we are only at the beginning of our journey in our relations with Asia, but the dynamics of recent years are reflected both by the increase in our representation in the Asia Pacific region and by the significant increase in the number of high-level reciprocal visits. The activity of the Riigikogu in Asia, where the upcoming Asia debate will play an important role, is also welcome. Relations with India are more active than ever. Last year, three Indian ministers visited Estonia. Estonia's e-governance experience is an object of mutual interest. In turn, the India monitoring project of the Estonian Development Fund explores economic and business relations and opportunities for the future more widely. In order to support existing activities, contribute to the creation of business links and ensure consular services on the ground and promote educational and cultural contacts, the government decided to establish an Estonian embassy in New Delhi. Although the March earthquake in Japan and the subsequent Fukushima nuclear accident confused many cooperation plans, the continuation of contacts showed the strength of relations. In addition to self-evident moral and political support, Estonia has also made a financial contribution in the field of humanitarian aid through the Japanese Red Cross. Despite difficult circumstances, we have also found new opportunities for greater economic cooperation with Japan. A unique project in the world with Mitsubishi in 2011-2013 is a good example: as a result of the sale of allowances, it is planned to build a nation-wide charging infrastructure for electric cars and more than five hundred Mitsubishi electric cars will reach Estonia's roads. Cooperation with China will continue and develop both bilaterally and internationally. Last year, we opened the Honorary Consulate in Hong Kong, whose work and activities, as well as the Shanghai Consulate General, which has reached its full capacity last year, are looking forward to helping to promote cross-border business links and supporting Estonian citizens in the region. Greater communication with the countries of Southeast Asia is also under increasing focus. The region is important for the economic and security interests of the future. A month ago, I came from Indonesia on a joint visit with Alexander Stubb, Finnish Minister of Euro Affairs and Foreign Trade, and Estonian and Finnish entrepreneurs. Working with the Finns close to us has a new dimension. During this year, we will appoint an ambassador to the most influential countries of Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, in Tallinn, to strengthen links and enhance cooperation. The establishment of representation in Central Asia is a connecting link between Europe and East Asia. Our embassy in Astana has begun its work, from which we also represent Estonia in the surrounding countries. Besides Asia, other regions of the world are also important, including Brazil, which has just become the world's sixth economy and with whom Estonia's relations have increased recently. It continues to be in our interest to achieve visa liberalisation with Brazil for Estonian citizens. The creation of the Brazilian embassy in Tallinn enables us to deal with matters of mutual importance more regularly. Good listeners! Traditional diplomacy and its importance have not disappeared. Nevertheless, the focus on business and foreign economic relations continues to grow. All economic areas and business contacts are important to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition to embassies, we have increasingly involved honorary consuls. Estonian exports grew by 38% last year compared to the previous year. Thus, Estonia's total export turnover is higher than ever before. The foreign trade deficit was also one of the smallest ever. Our main trading partners are still our neighbouring countries, Finland, Sweden, Russia and Latvia. In the light of the above, we must take into account that although the Asian economies are rising in a global sense, Estonia's immediate neighbourhood and the European internal market are still of key importance, and the potential of which remains to be exhausted. Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Enterprise Estonia, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other business promotion organisations has been good. Several information days and seminars have taken place both in Estonia and in foreign markets. The above-mentioned joint visit to Indonesia with Finland is noteworthy. Due to the new challenges of globalisation and foreign policy, there was a keener need to analyse the network of Estonian representations and its development. We now have 46 diplomatic missions, including 33 embassies, seven permanent representations, four consulates, one special mission and one private office. Estonia also has 144 honorary consuls in 66 countries. We will explore ways in which the External Action Service can best achieve its objectives in a changing world. However, from the point of view of our objectives, Europe's transatlantic relationship with Estonia is indispensable. Estonia's security and well-being continue to be most closely linked to the European Union, NATO and our immediate neighbourhood. However, we do not ignore the dynamic developments taking place in the wider world. After all, the interest of Estonian companies and people in remote regions has increased. So last year we opened the embassy in Kazakhstan, the Consulate General in Sydney, and now we have an embassy opening in India. We are also considering the possibility of establishing a representation in Brazil. In the future, there may be a representation in the Republic of Korea and Thailand, but also in the Balkan countries closer to us. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has continued to expand the network of honorary consuls and to involve them in providing support to companies. Dear Riigikogu! The area of cultural diplomacy in which we were successful last year is also very important to the government. In addition, Tallinn was the European Capital of Culture. Estonian Cultural Festival Estonian Tonique, which was held in Paris in 2011, is the largest event to introduce Estonian culture abroad. More than two hundred Estonian performers participated in the rich program and more than half a hundred events took place. Estonia was also the topic of the Helsinki Book Fair this time. Last year, the US schools received educational material based on the "Singing Revolution," with which about one million U.S. students learn about Estonia's recent history. The reconstruction of St. John's Church in St. Petersburg contributed significantly to the construction of a cultural bridge with Russia. Honourable listeners! In the event of citizens being put at risk, assisting them is a natural priority for each public authority. The most difficult case last year was the kidnapping of seven Estonian citizens in the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon on 23 March. But last January, the unrest in Egypt also exploded. In cooperation with the Finnish consular service, we were able to pick up those wishing to leave Cairo and the country around it. The most important thing is that none of our citizens suffered during these events. In March, when Japan was struck by an earthquake and a tsunami, our embassy assisted the Estonian citizens who were present, and we arranged for them to leave Japan. Last year our consuls carried out 50123 registered consular operations, which is 34% more than in the previous year. We accepted 146395 visa applications, which gives an annual increase of 21%, while the number of long-stay and multiple-entry visas had increased among visa applications. The purpose of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to make every effort to ensure that Estonian citizens can always be sure of the help and support of their country if they need it when they are in other countries. To this end, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also significantly increased its consular capabilities. The times we live in are interesting and only comprehensive cooperation within Estonia allows Estonia to be smart and strong internationally. Thank you for listening! Thank you for your cooperation. I wish us all a more peaceful world and a beautiful New Year's Day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U8	Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet! We go to questions and answers. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U9	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you, Minister, for a meaningful presentation. As president of the Estonian-Thailand parliamentary group, I naturally have a special interest in Estonia's relations with the Kingdom of Thailand. You once mentioned, in passing, that perhaps in the distant future, there will be our representation in Thailand. But I want to hear more about whether Estonia is planning any initiatives towards relations between Thailand and Estonia, and perhaps also in the direction of neighbouring countries, such as Burma or Myanmar, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U10	Thailand is one of the countries of Southeast Asia, whose importance for us is clearly growing. Here, the cooperation of the parliaments is extremely important for both the delegation coming from the Thai parliament to Estonia in the near future and the activities of our parliamentary group of friends. We have had an honorary consul in Bangkok for years; one honorary consul will be added to South Thailand in the near future. Indeed, one vision of our development plan for foreign representations also puts into consideration that, if you look at the opening of representations in Southeast Asia in the coming years, Thailand could be one such place. If we are talking about new representations at all, there are three main issues or criteria that the country in which the representation is opened should meet: the political impact, our external economic interest and, of course, the criterion of helping citizens. Thailand is an increasingly important tourist country, with more and more Estonian citizens moving there. There is also an increase in interest in external economic cooperation. Of course, there is an important foreign policy aspect given Thailand's role in Asia and, more specifically, in Southeast Asia. In this regard, we have an interest in strengthening contacts with Thailand in the near future. It concerns parliamentary communication, but it also concerns communication between foreign ministries, the exchange of visits. In addition, an honorary consul must be considered, and in the coming years, when we talk about representations, Thailand as a place where Estonia could create its permanent presence. In ASEAN, where Thailand belongs, very interesting and substantive developments have taken place and are taking place. So the regional aspect is also interesting and important for us in this region of Asia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U11	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of State! You stressed the importance of the Internet in your speech, but I didn't hear the word 'ACTA'. However, this year, a large international agreement with a number of opponents in Estonia has also come into your work plans. Do you think that by the time it is necessary to adopt this treaty, you will be able to dissuade these opponents?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U13	As far as the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement is concerned, we have spoken about it in this House, and we will continue to talk about it. As has been said before: in addition to the substance of this agreement, which we have had a good discussion on and which we will be discussing further, what is actually just as important about multilateral international agreements is what is happening in other potential Contracting Parties to the Treaty. As we know today, in the context of the European Union, there are, apart from us, four other countries that have not signed this agreement, and more and more thoughts have arisen in several countries that have signed the Treaty but have not ratified it. It is important to monitor very clearly what the fate of this agreement will be and how other potential parties to the agreement will function. In Estonia, as we have said, we are in no hurry. We are now focusing on the substantive side, on discussions, on explanations. As I said, we are currently drawing up an explanatory memorandum to this draft at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and not only a number of ministries are involved in this work, but also those direct stakeholders who have expressed their views very clearly in recent times. The future and destiny of any international agreement depends first and foremost on whether there is sufficient will in the first place among the countries that came forward as initiators of that agreement. What is important is what is happening on this subject both in the European Union and in the wider world. The main issue of this discussion in Estonia is that if, for example, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement fixes the current state of copyright protection, this will not be an obstacle to the modernisation and modernisation of this area. Figuratively speaking, it is as if concreteising the current situation, which in turn complicates creative developments in the future, as this area is known to be very complex, particularly in relation to the development of cyber and digital space. In short, we will continue these discussions within Estonia, with care also in mind what is happening in other parts of the world. I'm sure we won't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U14	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U15	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! We will not get over or around the Greek issue. Probably still on our desks this week. But, of course, it's very difficult to explain it to people. We compare even the minimum wage for Greece, which is 750 euros, and the minimum wage for Estonia, which is 287 euros. Or we will look at Greek pensions, starting with 1300 euros, which will now be reduced by 12%, and we will compare them with Estonia's many times smaller pension. Do you think, and how do we manage to explain aid to the people of Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U16	Thank you for your question. I think that when it comes to Estonia, our internal communication and explaining the situation in Greece, including the internal mechanisms of action of the European Union and the principle of solidarity, I am sure that we will be able to explain this in Estonia. The explanation simply needs to be patient and thorough, but I think that at the end of the day most people in Estonia will understand that this is not so much about Greece, although of course it is a very specific example at the moment, but it is primarily about the European Union's internal principles of solidarity and principles and the possibility of their continuity. What is happening with Greece is a very extreme example. I agree that there are a number of indicators here, which at first glance may also be difficult and hesitant to explain in Estonia. But I think that it is also more important for Estonia to follow the European Union's solidarity principle more generally and closely. If we are talking about money, we will still receive five and a half euros for every euro that Estonia pays to the European Union budget through various support funds, structural funds, fine-tuning funds and other means. We are not in a crisis in the way that Greece is in. Just one of the principles of solidarity in the European Union is to help those countries whose average standard of living is lower and where prosperity is less than the average in Europe. It is very difficult to anticipate and hold back this process in other areas if it happens that the concept of solidarity begins to crumble at the same time. This is the same issue as the financial framework of the European Union, where Estonia is clearly a monetary winner. These are the freedoms that we are so much accustomed to in the European Union, from Schengen, the free movement of persons, the free movement of labour and the free movement of goods and services. It is the same subject of freedom and the rule of law. So my main concern, also from the example of Greece, is that if, in this respect, the European Union looks at this story of solidarity as it begins to crumble very clearly, it is not possible to foresee where this process could stop. It can also damage many other aspects that are very important to us. Of course, it is a matter of course what, after all, Greece's own threshold of pain is, how much it is willing to comply with all the conditions and rules that the rest of the European Union has set for it and will continue to impose in order to provide this assistance. It is now not very much in our hands or in the hands of other European Union countries, but it is important here how well Greece's own government and politicians can explain this situation to the Greek people. But as far as we and the European Union are concerned, I think that, in the context of Estonia too, people will finally understand why it is necessary to keep and help Greece as long as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U17	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In your presentation, you discussed the economic cooperation between the Baltic Sea countries in the fields of energy and transport, but I am interested in the Nord Stream pipeline. What is your position with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the second and third pipeline of Nord Stream? This issue has already been discussed in Europe. Last time the first pipe was built, Estonia was the only one who did not go along with it. You wanted to go with me first, but it didn't work out. What are your plans now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U19	Let's get to the past first. If you remember, then there was no talk about involving this project, but it was first about whether or not to allow research in the Estonian economic zone. At the time, the situation remained that we would not allow these studies to be carried out either. But so-called classical inclusion has never been offered to Estonia. By classical inclusion, I mean, for example, participation in this project, but this has not been offered to Estonia. As far as these pipes are concerned, I don't know that today. No formal proposals or ideas have been issued by any party, either Russia, Germany or any other country, or by any company that has directly participated in this project. Rather, I have heard statements from high figures in Russia, for example, that Poland and other land-based transit countries should not be concerned, because gas transit will continue to move on land through these countries. Personally, I am not very convinced that the construction of new pipes alongside the existing Nord Stream pipeline will be the subject of the coming years. It is still a very expensive project with a long payback period, so there is no more to say about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U20	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, My question concerns foreign economic policy. What do you think are the bottlenecks in increasing the international profile of Estonia and protecting the interests of our entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U22	If we take a very broad plan and a very global approach to ambition, then the main thing, which may be a bottleneck in the same way, is the strength of Estonian business, the fact is that more than 70% of Estonia's exports to the rest of the European Union continue to go to Finland, Sweden, Latvia and Germany, and our second neighbour, Russia, which is not part of the European Union. This shows that Estonian exporting companies have, however, had ample capacity to enter markets with high competition and high quality standards, as the European Union markets do. Of course, they use the free movement of goods and services and the single internal market. This is the main argument why Estonia has not made very large investments and has not developed trade on other continents. I am absolutely convinced that, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the EAS, as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and other public authorities, will be very flexible if Estonian entrepreneurs have a serious interest and willingness to do something in some remote regions or countries. I spoke in my speech about a visit to Indonesia, where we were accompanied by representatives of nine Estonian companies. I believe they made very good contacts and were offered a very serious programme on the ground. So if the Chamber of Commerce considers that there are specific countries that Estonian entrepreneurs could have similar potential interest in, then we are certainly prepared to organise exactly the same activities and follow-up activities. It all comes down to how our companies see the future of their exports, whether they are confined to the European Union or whether they have the ambition to go elsewhere in the world. The enlargement of the network of representations outside Europe in recent years also represents the creation of such support points. The vision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2015 and further mentions potential countries in both Asia and South America (the same Brazil), where we are ready to open our representation if necessary. However, this 'big ball' is primarily in the hands of entrepreneurs themselves, who are driven by their own visions and interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U23	Thank you. Please, colleague Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Once again, I want to congratulate you, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all the Estonian authorities who contributed to solving the hostage crisis. But it would be better if there were no such crises. My question: what has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done to simply inform hikers not to go to the area? Are tourism companies aware of this? What is the information that can be obtained?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U25	The website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a constantly updated so-called travel information about all countries of the world. We have also introduced through the press and at other meetings to tourism companies that this is a place where you can always look at the state of affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in one country or another to give either a travel warning or a recommendation. In addition, we have very close meetings with Estonian tourism companies. Last Friday, I met with our consular people in the framework of the Tourist fair with the leaders of Estonian tourism companies, we answered questions and so on. In addition to the information that is available on the website, our recommendation has been time-old, we keep saying that, especially if you go to more exotic places, you should register at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If there's any trouble in that country, we know who to look for. Plus, of course, people should make insurance. Last year, however, there were quite a few examples when people were in an accident in a remote area and it turned out that either they had not been insured at all during the journey, or they had been in a very cheap way, which, after all, leads to very high costs. Yeah, we're gonna keep sending these messages. Hopefully, our small campaign on travel warnings and insurance will start again on Estonian television channels in the coming days. But in the end, all people still make their own choices about where they go and how much they want to receive this information and assess their own risks. I'm afraid you can't fight it. Surely our advice is not that people should not go anywhere. I think that expanding our horizons and seeing the rest of the world are, in any case, very valuable today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U26	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U27	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! I wonder what developments have been in the process of concluding the border agreement between Estonia and Russia. What has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia done here and what are the views of the parties now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U28	There are no tangible changes to the border agreement between Estonia and Russia. It is no secret that the discussions between Estonian and Russian diplomats have come up with such an offer from Russia, for example, to either re-sign both of these agreements or to re-negotiate these two agreements, the land border agreement and the maritime border agreement, and to re-sign a 'new treaty', and we will start the process from the very beginning. In order to go this way or any other way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, must still have confidence that the Estonian Parliament and Estonian society as a whole will accept this solution. There's no other way. Without a clear majority in the Estonian Parliament saying that one or the other solution is sensible and is ready to be approved, there is really no possibility or point for diplomats or government to carry something forward very much here. Here, the broader understanding of the progress of the treaty or its amendments by Estonian society as a whole and the Estonian Parliament is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U29	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, It was as if the Minister of War rather than the Minister of Foreign Affairs appeared before us. I do not share the idea that the most important issue to start a foreign policy presentation is security, that NATO rather than the European Union. Therefore, I ask: are the European countries of our four development aid priorities less important than Afghanistan, Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia? If that is the case, I would like to hear the Minister's arguments as to why Afghanistan is of greater weight than our former partners in destiny.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U31	Thank you. If you've noticed, my presentation started not only with Afghanistan's issues, but also with a wider range of security issues. At the very beginning, I also said that, if Europe has cut its defence spending heavily, unfortunately, in the world, including our immediate neighbourhood, there are countries that have not done it, but who have done it quite the opposite. I spoke from the very beginning, for example, about increasing military forces in the Kaliningrad, Pihkva and Leningrad districts, which are our immediate neighbouring areas. So the first topic of my speech was not narrowly Afghanistan, but security as such. Indeed, I am convinced that if we look at all possible developments in our immediate vicinity, but also further away, in the Arab countries, as well as Iran, Afghanistan, North Korea, the changing attitudes in the United States, then in today's world security is not an issue that we could put in the background. I think it is very clear that, in the absence of strong security, it does not make much sense, frankly, to push on other issues. This contrast, whether Afghanistan or Moldova or Georgia or Ukraine, I certainly would not. They all have their very important aspects, which are why their further positive development is important to Estonia, both in terms of our well-being and security. We would, of course, like Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia to become European rule of law, European democracies. We will continue all these activities. However, the first priority remains to stabilise the security situation in Afghanistan and to ensure that what is happening in that country does not jeopardise Europe's security, including our security, whether through terrorism, the spread of drugs or the widening instability in the region, whose effects in today's small world reach out here. These situations and causes are somewhat different, but there is certainly no reason to oppose anyone. Yes, we will contribute to all these countries as much as we can and can.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U32	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U33	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, You've been under notice lately in relation to the ACTA Treaty. You didn't say a word about it in your speech. At the same time, however, this issue has brought to the table that the current government is eager to ratify or approve a number of agreements before the matter has been thoroughly discussed. In this regard, I want to know the following: ACTA is accompanied by negotiating protocols that are not public. Who of the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Estonia has studied these negotiating protocols and how do Members have access to these minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U34	First of all, I don't agree that I didn't cover this topic at all in my speech. I did so in general terms, talking about how Estonia is very clearly of the opinion that freedom of expression is a human right also in the cyber environment, that we stand up for this principle, and last December we basically joined the countries that follow the same principle that freedom of expression is a human right also in the cyber environment. That's the subject I covered. Yes, I did not specifically talk about the subject of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, because, as we have spoken before, it does not have much social or economic impact in Estonia. I also think that we have all heard quite a lot about this issue in recent days and have also spoken about it. With regard to the 'negotiation protocols', it has been clarified in recent times that during such international negotiations on an international agreement, where there are very many parties, very many countries that are developing it, countries are making different proposals during these talks. These proposals, which will not finally be found in this agreement, will be withdrawn by the countries. In accordance with good and well-established practice, all the proposals made by one or another country during this process will not be spread out to the public. This is not something we have come up with; it has been a practice for decades not to put one country or another in an awkward situation afterwards. As far as Estonia's positions are concerned, Estonia's positions are clearly based on what is already written in our copyright and criminal law. As we have also said, in the case of Estonia, this agreement does not have any effect in this respect, it does not change anything in Estonia; our laws are at times even stricter than this agreement would have foreseen. Also, the impact on Estonian authors or copyright holders in terms of exports, provided that a country that is taking its copyright to a better level is not very significant, as our cultural exports are simply not very substantial. This was an explanation of the positions of countries in the development of all international agreements, including this agreement. There are customs that are, let's say, parents and us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U35	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U36	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! In your presentation you noted very positively the Estonian initiative 'Let's do it! ', which in 2008 conquered Estonia as a wildfire and cleaned up our forest floors. It has now grown out of the world's cleanup 'Let's do it! The World, which you yourself recently represented in the United Nations. Yesterday, Rainer Nõlvak, the leader of this action, stated in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the number of participants in some countries is increasing at a rate of more than a thousand people per day. This means that more than a thousand people a day will learn more about Estonia. People are deeply moved by our experience and they want to repeat it in their own country. More than 80 countries have already joined, but some major powers that have initially been passive could also contribute. Why do you think such a small idea, born in Estonia, has conquered so many hearts in the world and could the Estonian government put on its shoulders more strongly so as to further strengthen the positive impact of this citizens' initiative on Estonia's reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U37	Why is it so much positive? I think each of us can tell that from our own personal example. In the world, after all, all people are alike. Ask why Estonian society became so obsessed with this activity here in Estonia a few years ago. The Estonian people like cleanliness and order. We don't like it when the forest floors are full of shit. Second of all, we like to do these nice things together. I think that these are also the main reasons elsewhere in the world, because people in themselves are all very similar. As regards whether the Estonian state can place more on this story internationally, yes, we are very interested in it. We did so, for example, in the United Nations General Building in New York in December, where, with the support and push of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the project was presented to all interested parties. Our embassies in the countries where this project has been introduced have always been supportive. We are fully open to support, in the same way, the leaders of this project in more and more countries, and on the other hand, of course, our interest is also on our own initiative to highlight and present this issue in appropriate fora.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U38	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Given the limited resources, we must, on all sides, consider the need for and the possibility of establishing our new offices in the developing, so-called hot regions of the world. It is quite obvious that in very many regions we will not be able to do so in the near future, while a large number of European Union External Action Services have been created and are developing. Do you, and if so, see the possibility of cooperation with the European External Action Service in those countries where we do not have a representation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U40	Thank you. As I mentioned earlier, there are three main questions or criteria on the basis of which it can be decided whether it is reasonable for us in one country or another to open our representation or perhaps to close it somewhere: foreign policy, foreign economic and consular matters. As regards the current state of the European External Action Service (EEAS) and the European Union's common stance on foreign policy and security policy, I think that the European Union's representations are quite well covered by foreign policy. The European External Action Service (EEAS) is essentially not engaged in foreign trade and the external economy at all, especially when it may appear that the countries of the European Union themselves and companies are competitors of each other. Thirdly, although we have offered, along with many other countries in the European Union, that the European External Action Service (EEAS) would take on an important part in the face of the so-called consular role, i.e. the problems and crises of helping the citizens of the European Union, this issue has unfortunately not reached anywhere, this function has not been taken up. Two of these three main themes, the external trade and the external economy, and consular protection, are not, in general terms, the topics that the European External Action Service would be dealing with at the moment. In any case, we need either our representation or very good cooperation agreements with another European Union country to deal with these matters. In the consular field, we have done so. In more than 80 countries where Estonia does not have a representation, for example, we are represented by another Member State of the European Union on the issue of visas. Even in the case of individual emergencies, when an Estonian citizen is in trouble, there has been a representative of the European Union in this country who has been prepared to help us in a particular case. Last year our citizen Rudenko was imprisoned in Tajikistan, and the German embassy helped us greatly. There are such individual cases, but if we want to talk more widely, especially from countries where many Estonian citizens are present, then the consular side, as well as the external trade side, the external economy side, are those areas where every country in the European Union still has to stand up for itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U41	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that we have had very good and positive relations with the People's Republic of China since the beginning of almost regaining independence. Last year, when the Dalai Lama visited Estonia at the invitation of the social organisations, the Minister of Defence, who was then in charge of the Head of Government, met with him, which was, of course, an unkind behaviour towards our partner. Hence my question: can either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Foreign Affairs prevent this or explain that such actions will not be taken? At the time, we also read in the press that some events may have been bad for relationships.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U43	The most important thing about this issue is that Estonia is a free society, which means that all people, including politicians, have the right to make choices, to whom and how they meet and what they say. In this respect, one or the other public authority cannot or will not have to issue any injunctions. Prior to the visit of the Dalai Lama to Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, described possible developments related to this visit, including some other countries where these visits have taken place in order to give members and politicians of the Estonian Government the broadest possible background and overview of how the visits of the Dalai Lama have taken place in other countries. But once again, neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor any other Estonian state institution must be the one in Estonia who is going to report to politicians, with whom they should or should not meet and what messages they should pass on. Estonia is a free country in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U44	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question partly relates to Mr Allik's. In fact, I noticed that your presentation is 12 pages long, but there are exactly 11 lines dedicated to Russia, four of which are talking about the development of democracy there and four others about Russia's future accession to the WTO. The other three lines talk like our cooperation, highlighting the signing of the pension contract. This agreement had to be signed, i.e. because the previous agreement simply expired. At the same time, we are the only country in the European Union that does not have a border agreement with Russia. From your response to Jaak Alli, I understood that the government does not consider it necessary to do anything in this direction in the near future. The question is this: how long do you think an abnormal situation could last, where we do not have a border agreement with our neighbour, and what developments must take place on both sides of this border so that this agreement can be concluded at a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U46	How widely should this question be answered? When it comes to border agreements in the world at all, it's nice if they are, but they really shouldn't overstate them either. The main thing, however, is whether the border is accepted 'in fact' and 'in real life', whether it works, whether there are any concerns or not. As we all know, there are no real problems between Estonia and Russia on this subject in practice. Cooperation works, customs and border guards work together on both sides, and this has essentially been the case for the last 20 years. In what ways and under what conditions does the border agreement become effective? It makes no sense for me to remind you of 2005 and that, for our part, these signed agreements could enter into force either today or tomorrow, because, in fact, there are no substantive claims on either side of these agreements. After all, Estonia has taken all steps to ensure that these agreements enter into force. Yeah, we watch the news and listen to what they say. We know the Russian side doesn't think so. He thinks that the Estonian Parliament did something to the 'preamble', which is why these agreements can no longer enter into force. This is where we are today. Here is the question of what are the alternatives, what are the options, how to move forward. In replying to Jaak Alli, I described one of the possibilities offered by Russian diplomats, that we would sign the contracts substantially again or that we would put together two contracts and sign them. But just like him, so I will also answer you that any options to consider, the government, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, must still have a very clear understanding that the large majority of the Estonian Parliament is behind one solution or another. Without it, there is no point in starting a different story on this subject at all. Once again: Estonia already expressed a very clear position on the border agreements concluded in 2005. The reality of life is that there are no substantive problems here. As far as we are concerned, these agreements could enter into force either today or tomorrow, which would be the easiest. If Russia comes up with any other proposals, it is certainly important that the Estonian Parliament also takes its views into account in this regard, because I say once again that without broad support there is no point in dealing with any other alternatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U47	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You made it clear in your speech that the emphasis on diplomatic cooperation in the near future will be on Asia. At the same time, you noted that globalisation and new foreign policy tasks have created the need to analyse the network of Estonian representations and its development. Does this mean that some present foreign representation will be abolished and more resources will go to Asia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U49	The Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as our network of foreign representations, is a living organism. We do not do that, for example, once in ten years, we analyse something important and then decide that it is. We review every year what our resources are, where our representations are, what is happening in the world and what are Estonia's interests in relation to the rest of the world in any field. So the short answer is yes. It certainly cannot be ruled out that, in the course of this review, we are saying, for example, this year, that perhaps we will also close down some of the offices where these components are of great foreign policy interest, great foreign economic interest or consular needs are not weighing up the resources that have been placed there. That cannot be ruled out. In addition to opening offices, adjustments must be made from time to time: somewhere to close or redirect. This year we have decided to open an embassy in India. But the year has only just begun. I'm not gonna tell you tonight that we're not gonna tighten anything up. In fact, every year this process goes over and over again. We look at our wallet, our human resources, what is happening in the world and what Estonia's foreign policy interests, economic interests or consular needs are.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U50	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. What do you think Estonian embassies and representations should do better to protect the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs in foreign markets? In particular, I am thinking of distant foreign markets, given that Estonian exports are a key issue for the development of the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U52	The main thing is to help Estonian entrepreneurs interested in this market explain the nuances of the local environment, the legal space and help them connect with the political and power sides or direct entrepreneurs to meet the right people. The know-how of this particular country's political and legal environment is important. It is clear that if there is a desire to enter a far-reaching market, this company should have some idea of the market in a particular sector and of the market niches to which entry should be possible at all. I can't imagine an entrepreneur going to our embassy somewhere saying he'd like to do something in that country, but he doesn't know exactly what to offer the embassy to make the biggest profit in that country. I'm sure it doesn't work that way. But we are ready to provide all-embracing support, our people in embassies can give it, we are ready to do it, but the starting point is the vision of a particular entrepreneur himself. All of this can then be done very well on the basis of partnership and cooperation. Here's another example of our last visit to Indonesia. There were nine companies and everyone had a relatively clear understanding of what they were interested in in Indonesia and what they would like to do there. It was therefore very good to arrange meetings with the people of Indonesia. Although it has only been a month, I have heard from the feedback that a few companies have made very concrete progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U53	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. If the member of the delegation of the Baltic Assembly asks this question: how do you assess the current Baltic cooperation? Do you see the need and opportunity to improve cooperation and, if so, what measures could be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U55	In general, I will make a high assessment of this. In fact, it is part of our everyday and natural life, because we have so many things that bind us to Latvia and Lithuania, including our common interests in the so-called third countries or the rest of the world. At the moment, we have a very clear common interest with Latvia and Lithuania in ensuring that we are as effective as possible in establishing new energy systems, establishing Rail Baltic, starting up a single electricity market, developing rules on electricity imported from third countries, etc. Perhaps there are many very practical things that, if one of the three countries is not interested or giving up, this whole project is actually under attack. After all, life keeps rolling before us on such topics that because of our very close involvement and our similar geographical position, it is the only solution to achieve results in cooperation. But I think we are working with Latvia and Lithuania now and we are already dealing with them in such a practical and pragmatic way that we can talk with open texts about all things, including difficult issues, where some countries may disagree. We don't have to hide our concerns in eloquent speech, we can talk very easily. My wish is for us to be able to maintain this level in the future, so that we support each other as much as possible, so that no matter where we do not have to compete with each other. In my opinion, at least at foreign policy level, this has worked quite well. For example, we have supported each other's candidates. I am pleased that, just recently, Latvia's expert also proved to be the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe as a result of the good lobbying in other Baltic countries. It was a positive surprise for me. There have always been such misconceptions in international organisations, as if Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania cannot come to the Human Rights Commissioner, for what reasons. A recent example of a Latvian expert shows that it can, if there is a strong candidate and if there is a nice joint work to introduce this person. The Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also did a very good and great job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U56	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I was very sympathetic to read and hear from your speech the broad, broad approach to the concept of foreign policy when you spoke about cultural diplomacy and also about educational issues within the framework of foreign policy. I think this is very right and justified. Thank you so much for that. Some colleagues are very concerned about the small range of relations between Estonia and Russia. When the president of the Estonian-Russian parliamentary group asks you how you will assess the cross-border cooperation between Estonia and Russia. I mean cooperation between border regions in south-eastern Estonia and Ida-Viru County. How important does the State Department consider this to be? I would also like to ask whether you have thought that perhaps in the future the Estonian-Russian bilateral programme should be the financial instrument for cross-border cooperation, not the Estonian-Latvian-Russian programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U58	I very much appreciate the normal and even positive interaction between people and institutions and organisations in the border regions. I think it improves the quality of life for everyone when they get along well with their neighbours. I would very much like to congratulate those people and companies and organisations in South Estonia and Eastern Estonia who have found partners on the other side of the border and have worked well with them for a long time. I fully support this. In fact, there are also international or, let's say, regional organisations where our immediate neighbours can be supported and worked together even better. In the Council of the Baltic Sea States, for example, much attention is now paid to the region of Kaliningrad and to developments there. But I do not see any reason why the region of Kaliningrad should not rise alongside the region of Pihkva and Leningrad, which are also part of the Baltic Sea region. It is in our interest that these regions too are directly involved in the cooperation of the Baltic Sea Council. As regards the so-called Estonian-Russian programme instead of the Estonian-Latvian-Russian programme, the Estonian-Latvian-Russian programme also sounds beautiful. There are three neighbors in one group together, and I hope they're doing good things. But if the people who write and deal with these projects see that the added value could, however, be given by a bilateral programme, then I certainly have nothing against it. This should be based on what the participants in these programmes or projects themselves value most. If the effectiveness of the bilateral programme is assessed, it would be better to focus on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U59	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U60	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, In your presentation you talked a lot about the importance of the transatlantic relationship to Estonia. However, given the future of the US defence budget and the gradual shift of the US foreign policy emphasis from Europe to Asia, it is understandable that European foreign and security policy must itself become stronger and more coordinated. In your report you mentioned the European response to the crisis, but did not say how, for example, European foreign policy financing and defence budgets could be harmonised either in the European External Action Service (EEAS) or in the field of defence. You didn't talk about it in the field of research and development either. It is clear that if the 27 countries do their own thing, much of these costs will not be used in a particularly efficient way. What is the government's vision, if such a vision exists, how should the European Union develop its foreign and security policy, given the possible withdrawal of the US from Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U61	Thank you. As I said in my speech, alongside NATO, the European Union's defence and security activities are certainly important, given that not all the Member States of the European Union are NATO countries, and also the trend that worries us that expenditure on security and defence, especially during the crisis, is still falling. If, in this context, the United States is virtually reorganizing its European ties and reviewing European defence issues, then the question is, inevitably, why should the United States contribute so much to Europe in a security manner when European countries themselves contribute to their own security, reduce their own defence? In fact, the answer to this question is very varied. First of all, it is still our desire to see European countries change the trend of reducing defence spending themselves and yet contribute more to their own and European protection. Secondly, it is important for the European Union and NATO to work together to overcome and complement the obstacles currently encountered in this cooperation. Speaking specifically about the development of the capabilities of the European Union's defence and security policy, also here, in view of the fact that most countries are both NATO and European Union countries, and defence or security budgets are one in their budgets, there is no separate budget for the European Union and NATO-related defence or security issues, it is important for the European Union to focus on those areas where NATO and NATO activities would be complemented or supported, but not duplicated or compete with each other. It has been criticised that for years the European Union has been ready for the battle groups of the European Union created with the resources of the European Union. Estonia has also participated twice in the rotation period, but this battle group has never been used or used anywhere. So there are opportunities to make more efficient use of available resources, so that the European Union's defence and security policy takes a little more specific form. That same Weimar initiative is another thing I was talking about. These discussions have gone surprisingly difficult in the European Union. However, they should also go ahead and identify specific areas where the European Union has an additional contribution to make compared to NATO's activities. Thirdly, all of this must be framed in the context of each European country's own approach to security and defence, both for itself and for Europe, which in many ways is expressed in the defence budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U62	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U63	Thank you. Good minister! I want to congratulate the Government of the Republic, in particular the officials and diplomats of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who, with a pretty good job, achieved an extremely important result for us in the context of the forthcoming NATO Chicago Summit, that is to say that we are confident that air security missions will continue over us indefinitely. If you think about what will happen in the coming months, perhaps even in the coming year, are the most important issues in foreign policy, for which you intend to be active with your colleagues from Europe or beyond, can you highlight a few more important issues that need to be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U64	Despite the good news from the North Atlantic Council on the extension of air security for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania for an indefinite period, the NATO summit in Chicago has other issues on which we also have a clear vital interest in being properly addressed in our sense in the final document of the Chicago Summit. In the light of all the changes that we have talked about here today, it is still very clear that the principles of collective protection will be reaffirmed. That's never gonna happen. This must be achieved, especially in view of the changes taking place in the world. It is certainly important for both NATO and the European Union that, due to certain internal difficulties within Europe and the United States, partners, in particular Eastern European partners, are not left in the background. Yes, in all countries, not all internal developments are positive when we talk, for example, about Ukraine. However, in the light of the same NATO meeting, it is important, for example, to mention Georgia separately, as well as the enlargement of NATO to the Balkans. I very much hope that Macedonia will move forward. In the case of the European Union, it is equally important that the European Union's internal problems do not suffer from the European Union's perspective and the future enlargement process in the Balkans. Serbia, for example, still has a very important meaning for the stability of the whole Balkans. Estonia will draw attention to such political issues very clearly in the coming months. We have been talking about human rights. This is certainly an issue this year, which also needs and will receive our great attention internationally, even if it is because we are running for election at the UN Human Rights Council in the autumn. In this context, there are a number of practical things that need to be kept under consideration in the area of human rights. I called some of those things in my speech. With regard to purely Estonia's direct practical interests, the topic of foreign trade and business support is such an area where cooperation with our business organisations is, in my opinion, very good and open. That is what we want to keep and really be a practical help to our people. Consular activities are, of course, important here. You heard the bill earlier. The number of consular operations has increased exponentially. The world hasn't gotten any calmer. Unfortunately, there are still situations where you must be prepared for more activity abroad in order to help the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U65	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, As we know, our country is participating in financing the purchase of NATO's new intelligence aircraft. Will there be any similar purchases in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U67	The equipment of the Estonian Defence Forces must be constantly modernised, all the time. There is nothing to do, and the military technology and defence industry are also evolving. As our modern country, these developments cannot be left behind very much. But given the size of our resources, of course, the most effective and wise choices must be made here. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I very clearly trust my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces, who will certainly be able to make very wise use of the 2% of GDP that will be spent on our defence budget this year. They can use it in such a way that it is most useful to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U68	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! You also drew attention to what was happening in the Arab world. There is indeed a groundbreaking moment in the area. We have a certain experience, let's say, in introducing the beginnings of democracy or at least in laying the foundations for these rudiments in Afghanistan. But to what extent is such a democratic solution possible in these North African countries, taking into account, on the one hand, the fight between the clans, on the other hand, for example, the hard-handed leadership that has taken place in these countries so far? What can we recommend when looking at the Estonian side?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U70	The situation of the Arab countries is still very different today. There are countries where the main concern both for us and for the international community as a whole or for the international community is that violence should be stopped and people should not be killed every day. We are talking here, for example, about Syria. In countries that have recently experienced major violence, such as Libya, it is also necessary for the 'follow-up' of this fight to end before it can essentially begin normal development. There is still internal violence in Libya. In this society, people have a lot of weapons over their heads. For these countries, the priority is that people should not be afraid for their lives and violence should stop. At the same time, there are countries where the hope of a rapid modernisation of society and progress towards the rule of law is very high, such as Tunisia. Tunisia is also a country to which Estonia is prepared to contribute with e-solutions and other experience that this country may need if Tunisia is interested. There are also countries where there is still hope that a 'free society' can develop more vigorously, such as Egypt. The key is how elections are held in the Supreme Chamber of Parliament, presidential elections, etc. The Arab world is increasingly multifaceted. It cannot be said that one model can be transferred to the entire region.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U71	Thank you for your attention, for your questions and for your good cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U72	Thank you. Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be next in the chair as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U73	Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet! The time for planned questions and answers has run out. Questions who have already registered can submit their question to another rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U74	I'm so sorry. Can't you change that in any way so everyone can ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U75	Unfortunately, that is not possible now. Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U76	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, for his brief presentation by the Government of the Republic, which is a very good basis for our traditional foreign policy debate today here in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. 'The world is struggling with everyone's tendency to change it. Changing the world is aggression. All I want to do is change. If anyone likes what I've done, that's enough. " That is what one of the most famous Estonians today, the composer Arvo Pärt, has said. These words are, in my opinion, a very good introductory motto for how we can see a great changing world from Estonia. Last time we had a debate on foreign policy in this Chamber a year ago, just before the elections of this Parliament. It must be acknowledged that the last twelve months have been very dynamic in the world, and a number of important international events, be they the Arab Spring, the increase in tensions in the Middle East, the debt crisis in Europe or the white protest movement in Russia, inevitably point to larger currents in changing world lines of power. In fact, the great changes began much earlier. Some view the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Empire as the beginning of the war on terrorism as the start of the third investment bank Lehman Brothers as a crash. But regardless of the dates, it is clear that the global system is now going through the greatest upheaval since the Second World War, with an additional impetus to the crazy pace of the technological super revolution. The financial crisis that erupted in 2008 and shook the western world in particular brought 20 of the largest economies to the top of the global policy, 19 plus the European Union. The exclusive G7 of Western industrialised countries has started to retreat in front of the G20, where China, India, South Korea, Japan, Brazil, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and other new centres of influence are playing a growing role. It is not unnecessary to add that the G20 combines 80% of the world economy and two thirds of the population. In recent years, attention has also increased to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum (APEC), which was established under the leadership of Australia only in 1989. At present, 40% of the world's population live in APEC countries and the region accounts for around 54% of the world's economy and 44% of trade. While the investment bank Goldman Sachs analysts predicted in 2007 that China could become the world's leading economy by about 2027, the rapid cooling of the Western economy in particular and the financial difficulties have significantly brought this potential closer together. Over the last four years, the EU economy has fallen by 0.3% and the US economy has only increased by 0.6%, while the Chinese economy has increased by 42.2%. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has already predicted that, if these trends continue, China could pass the United States and become the world's largest economy as early as 2016. President Barack Obama of the United States made no secret at the beginning of his term of office that the world's influence is shifting from the Atlantic to the Pacific. As we can see, the financial crisis that broke out in 2008 only accelerated the already obvious process. In a speech held in Canberra in the Australian Parliament last November, President Obama unambiguously said that the Asia-Pacific region is the fastest-growing region in the world, and the presence of the United States there must become the most important economic and also security policy priority. The US government's attention is understandable. It is China that has significantly increased its military capabilities over the last decade. While, for example, Europe is somewhat in the disarmament process, Chinese expenditure on armaments and the military as a whole only increased by 12% in 2011 compared to the previous year. Based on analysis by the International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS) in Washington, China can achieve a balance of military capabilities with the US as early as 15 to 20 years from now. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapid emergence of not only China but of the entire Asian region in the global economy and politics is the main reason why the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs has devoted so much attention to this region in its activities. The report, based on the topic-specific hearings launched last spring and the analysis commissioned by the researchers of Tallinn University, should, in our opinion, contribute primarily to improving Asia's awareness of Estonia's foreign policy debate and mapping of long-term opportunities in the light of our limited resources. As regards the preparation of the report, last year the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Japan and the Republic of Korea. I would like to stress that the interest in Asia in no way means abandoning or replacing other issues that are important to us. Quite the opposite. We must be able to keep our natural strengths in line with what is happening in the world in order to benefit from the positive effects of change and have a firm place in the international division of labour. The report to be drawn up by the Committee on Foreign Affairs will focus on the period up to 2025. This allows us to perceive the main trends in the development of the Asian century at the same time and to map the short-term activities needed by the Estonian government in order to better implement the challenges of one of the world's most potential growth areas in order to improve Estonia's international competitiveness. I am pleased that the preparation of the Asian programme is also entering its final stage in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The aim of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to contribute to the formulation of this national programme and objectives. The Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to prepare its report during this session and, on this basis, to hold a debate on Asia in the Riigikogu in the spring. Then we will talk more about these matters. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the uprising in Asia does not mean that the western world's role in world politics is reduced to nothing. Rather, it means a significant diversification of the world's political map. As the world's centre of influence is shifting, it poses the greatest challenge to Europe in particular. Last year has been the most complex of the European Union in recent decades. At the end of last year, German Chancellor Angela Merkel even admitted to his partymates that 'Europe survives one of the most complex, perhaps the most complicated, hours after World War II. ' On the one hand, Europe has come to a situation in its internal development where popular re-generation of the welfare society is no longer working well. Growth, which has been constantly slowed down over the last thirty years, is no longer able to provide sufficient service to the rapidly increasing debt burden. It should not be forgotten that, in the last decade alone, the total debt of European Union countries has almost doubled to over EUR 10 trillion. Europe's prospects for improving its positions in the near future will be reduced by the decelerating competitiveness and demographic pressure on the fundamental problem in the form of an ageing population. Only the fact that in 2050 the average age of Europe's population will be 52 years, while in our immediate neighbourhood, especially in the south, and also in the United States, it will stand either slightly below 30 or slightly above it, speaks verbally for itself. Internal problems would certainly be easier to overcome if the outside environment were not so dynamic and dangerous. Who would have believed that the isolated self-burning event in the Tunisian provincial city could break out in North Africa and the Middle East in a chain of events that caused major changes. There, too, demography has played a role, the middle class has grown, and the stagnation of power has grown. However, it is premature and to some extent even misleading to compare Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Yemen, Syria and elsewhere with the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the subsequent release of Central and Eastern Europe. The background systems are too different for this comparison. However, I do not want to ignore in any way the possibility that the countries of North Africa and the Middle East could, in the long term, build permanent democratic institutions, such as Turkey. In the analysis of developments in North Africa and the Middle East, it is important not to forget Iran's growing influence in the region, Israel's nervousness with regard to Iran's nuclear programme and the Palestinian offensive in the UN, the U.S. units leaving Iraq, the continued activity of the various branches of Al Qaeda, despite the killing of Usama bin Laden, the fate of a large number of armed forces in Libya during the civil war, and many other factors. While Europe is facing a demographic decline in the coming decades, the countries on our southern borders are at the same time becoming the world's largest population-enhancing region. Of course, the growing population, especially for the countries in the region, is challenging how to ensure that young people have access to education and employment in order to avoid their possible radicalisation. But it's as if what's happening in the Southern Neighbourhood isn't enough! Europe's immediate, or even the biggest, challenge lies in the East. And to that end, there is nothing but Russia's persistent ambition to draw a clear line on the possible enlargement of the European Union and, in particular, NATO to the east. At the same time, there is an untiring attempt to get closer to influencing the decisions of both organisations. We have not missed the fact that Russia has recently continued to raise its security forces and to deploy new military installations in the Baltic Sea region. The most striking example is the decision of the Russian General Staff to place modern air defence complexes S-400 Triumf and short-range Iskander in the Kaliningrad region. There is no other way to assess this than an unreasonable political blackmail against its strategic partner, NATO. Both the above developments and other changes to the Baltic Sea security environment are the reason why the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to hold hearings on the subject during the current year and to order an analysis on the subject. Our aim is to better understand the biggest challenges of the coming decade in the security picture of the region and, if necessary, to give the government its own recommendations. In cooperation with the National Defence Committee, we will also take the second half of the year to analyse how the Government of the Republic has complied with the principles of security policy. We also intend to discuss security issues more widely in various regional parliamentary fora, including both Baltic cooperation and at NB8 level. This spring, among other things, the Riigikogu is to hold a traditional meeting of the Presidents of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Nordic and Baltic Parliaments. But just a second back to Russia. The Russian presidential elections in a week and a half will take place in a completely different environment than could be predicted three months ago. The white protest movement for the protection of fair elections and civil liberties has awakened the middle class of a neighbouring country. This cannot be overlooked and could lead to a chain of major internal changes. Russia is an important neighbouring country for Estonia either way. Given both the number of problems that still exist in bilateral relations and, on the other hand, the positive potential that a mutually recognised and good neighbourly relationship could offer, it is most important to have a dialogue at all levels. Without it, there is no way to dispel disturbing myths or to find solutions to existing problems. Parliamentary diplomacy certainly has a role to play here. Ladies and gentlemen, All this passionate and dynamic worldview also places additional responsibility on Estonian diplomats and foreign policy-making politicians in the small state. We are very lucky to have more friends and allies today in such a dangerous world than ever in the history of our country. Clearly, developing allies in a rapidly changing world requires constant attention. We are well aware that allies will remain strong if we ourselves are willing to contribute consistently and stand up for ourselves. This, in turn, assumes that the tools used to implement our foreign policy are figuratively in order and oiled. In today's fast and changing world, it is extremely important that Estonia, as a small country, is represented as well as targeted, thought-out and integrating different forms and content activities. It was for this purpose that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu announced its conclusions and recommendations to the Government of the Republic in connection with the representation of Estonia in the world and the development of our network of foreign representations. In order to shape its positions, the Commission conducted 21 hearings and commissioned an analysis on the subject from the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy. The Commission's final decision was consensual. If you ask a foreigner living in Estonia, which he thinks is the biggest problem in Estonia's relationship with the world, it is often mentioned that the country is little known. Of course, it is more difficult and harder for a small country to gain awareness of limited resources than for a large country. However, in today's competitive world, it is very important to be an active country that finds its own distinctive character and oppresses its strengths. Estonia has a total of 46 diplomatic representations in the world, plus 10 additional Enterprise Estonia Foundations and two representatives of the Estonian Institute. Adding 144 honorary consuls in 66 countries, Estonia's presence in the world is impressive for a small country. Through this network, Estonia has managed to ensure significant progress in international relations, as demonstrated by our rapid integration with the basic structures of the Western world. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recognises the Government of the Republic in its current activities, but at the same time calls for an in-depth analysis of the location and content of Estonia's foreign representations on the basis of our shorter and longer term foreign policy and foreign economic policy objectives, in the context of limited resources, new challenges and wider possibilities of representation. Given the need to optimise existing instruments, the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that in the near future the number of embassies in Europe should be considered. Our positions among good partners in Europe have been defined, not through small and often ineffective embassies, but, above all, through diverse cooperation at European Union or NATO level. The reduction in the number of embassies must not be mechanical, but strictly in line with the strengthening of our foreign policy capabilities. The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that the resources available could be used to strengthen existing offices both in Europe and beyond and to raise the pay of young diplomats. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we need to work across authorities to create a targeted image of Estonia with the aim that the content corresponds to the image. In doing so, more attention should be paid to introducing Estonia in the world through meaningfully integrated activities. One of its levers is the Commission's commitment to better harnessing the potential of public diplomacy. We also found in the Commission's recommendations that the Government of the Republic should modernise the Estonian diaspora policy in order to make better use of the available tools to maintain the ties of Estonians living abroad with their homeland. In its recommendations, the Commission specifically emphasised the role of foreign representatives in protecting the interests of Estonian citizens and businesses. It is obvious that without a strong and competitive economy, our foreign policy capabilities have also been hampered. Members of the Commission considered that the principle should be confirmed that Estonian representations, regardless of the existence of an economic diploma, would provide specific added value in their activities in obtaining up-to-date information and ideas and in creating and maintaining contacts at company level. Given the experience of our neighbouring countries, consideration should be given to the possibility that embassies will provide businesses with paid services for economic analysis. In total, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made 23 recommendations to the government, the possible implementation of which will continue to be discussed at the end of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to pay attention to the activities of the Riigikogu's external delegations and groups of friends. As of today, we have formed six foreign delegations and 45 parliamentary groups. At our traditional meeting in January with the leaders of our foreign delegations, it was recognised that in all international parliamentary forums, the Riigikogu is well visible and the work of ambassadors is certainly worth recognising. For example, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Estonia has a number of important positions, including the seat of the chairman of the influential monitoring committee, which is filled by Andres Herkel, the position of the Ukrainian rapporteur, which is filled by Mailis Reps, and the seat of the Serbian rapporteur, which is filled by Indrek Saar. The next spring, the Estonian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will host colleagues at the organisation's spring session in Tallinn. This will be the biggest international parliamentary event in Estonia so far. The Riigikogu is seriously preparing for this and hopefully we will be able to organise a memorable event for the parliamentary delegations of more than 40 countries. Like the external delegations, many parliamentary groups have shown activity, whose activities should contribute to the diversification of bilateral relations between countries. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has held at least once during the session a meeting of the presidents of parliamentary groups, which is a very good opportunity to exchange information and shape good practices. Unfortunately, we also suffered a great loss in this work when my colleague Peeter Kreitzberg, the head of the working group in China, suddenly died there. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu will also focus on promoting parliamentary diplomacy and making better use of our internal resources in the coming year. In this work, we have felt the active involvement and commitment of all political groups. One of the biggest advantages of Estonian foreign policy has been the ability to find political consensus and to move towards jointly developed goals. This is a value which is also important for the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu in its further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U77	Thank you very much. We'll continue with the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! My question was intended for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I hope that the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs can also answer. Presentations on foreign policy in previous years were part of energy security issues, and not just in relation to the Baltic Sea region, which was touched on today. Today's presentations did not shed light on Estonia's position in southern projects, such as Nabucco and South Stream. Is this topic not important or has Estonia changed its position, which was discussed in previous speeches? I mean, last few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U79	Thank you for a very good and substantive question. Energy security is undoubtedly an extremely important topic and it is perfectly understandable that, whether or not these thoughts sound in these short speeches today, they affect our lives almost every day. I think there is a multilateral approach. Energy policy, including energy security policy, will certainly be a success for us if the European Union is able to implement it in the most coherent, consistent manner possible, using all the different options and resources. I think that, in fact, there have been quite positive developments in this area in recent years. Six or seven years ago, when I was rapporteur for the energy security of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this consistency between the European institutions was much less than it is now. Estonia has actually been very active in this energy security debate at national level, but I think we still have a number of important issues to resolve. I believe that in this cooperation that we are doing at European Union level, the projects you have mentioned are also very important, particularly the Nabucco project. As recent developments have shown, progress has been made in this area as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U80	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I think that pragmatism is one of the most important components of foreign and economic policy. And pragmatism must first and foremost be expressed in good relations and especially in good relations with neighbours. Estonia's advantage is that there is a large and bottomless Russian market next to us. However, I will give a simple example of different relationships: if Finland has good economic relations with Russia as one of the foundations of the country's welfare, and for this they are working very closely together on a number of levels of political cooperation, then we have so that if Estonia's exports to Russia exceeds a certain percentage, we will talk about how seriously this threatens our country. Do you think pragmatism should prelate emotions? Should we work to improve our relations so that the Estonian economy also wins?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U82	I think that is a very good question, which is quite easy to answer. It is quite clear that emotional impulses do not make politics, especially foreign policy. The results achieved by such a policy can be short-term and, in fact, quite fatal to national security. As the presentation by the Committee on Foreign Affairs sounded, our approach is quite pragmatic in everything that concerns the security of Estonia in all its areas, including our export capacity in different markets, including the Russian market you mentioned. In recent years, when we look at statistics, this pragmatism has actually gained a great deal in terms of good export-import figures, which are relevant to the activities of our companies, and also in Russia, using the various opportunities that this really big market is hiding in itself. Of course, we know that there are a whole range of obstacles that affect both what is happening in the legal area and perhaps what has so far limited the economic relations between the European Union and Russia. For the fourth year we have been negotiating a partnership agreement between the European Union and Russia, which would make a major contribution to promoting bilateral relations in the economic field as well. We hope that Russia's accession to the World Trade Organisation will also provide additional certainty for our companies to invest in Russia and to promote trade relations. I believe that this contractual base, which we still have some holes in our relations with Russia, will be improved if both sides recognise the importance of bilateral dialogue. I can assure you that, as far as the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs is concerned, our interest is undoubtedly to contribute as much as possible so that we have as good a contractual basis as possible in our relations with all our neighbours. When it comes to Russia, this basis would contribute to the development of long-term investment and trade relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U83	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have to admit, I agree with almost all your positions. I also agree that a strong foreign policy is one of the foundations of our internal pillar of prosperity. But as a result, I have a very simple question. If the world is considered to be the greatest risk of perhaps a lack of clean air, water and food in the future, then we have all these things. What do you think we should do in Estonia so that we can pack them up and find them markets outside the European Union and sell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U85	That's a very interesting question. I've never thought about packing air and sending it somewhere else. But what you are referring to in your question is, in my opinion, a very serious problem, especially the scarcity of resources in the various regions of the world, and indeed in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union. The European Commission has pointed out, for example, that in a country such as Yemen, which is currently plagued by civil war, it may happen that in 2015 they will have very serious problems with access to water. At the same time, Yemen is one of the fastest-growing countries in the world, with 3% of its annual lives, and it is clear that, given its current internal situation, it can be a very serious problem. We know that there are similar sources of danger in many other parts of the Middle East. I think that a country that really owns, as you referred to, enough resources to ensure a clean environment for a long time cannot solve such global problems. It is certainly extremely important here to have this cooperation between countries. The European Union, to which Estonia belongs and where it is active, has, in my opinion, been the front speaker, particularly in recent years, in achieving a clean economy, a green economy, a clean environment in the world. For example, the Estonian project 'Let's do it! " is an undertaking that has received a great deal of attention in the world. This is a very good initiative and it has indeed been launched by our citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U86	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question also concerns Russia. I would like to say, as an introduction, that I think that sometimes we have been throwing our fists towards Russia unreasonably. I am thinking of the economic situation of our country as a whole, the number of unemployed is increasing and the number of jobs is falling. We need to start talking to Russia as one of our exporting countries in substance. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said: three countries in our immediate neighbourhood - Finland, Russia and Sweden - are extremely important to us. I am asking: what are the three steps in the near future that could be the basis for success in negotiations with Russia and guarantee us stronger economic ties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U88	First of all, I would like to correct this statement on your question that we have been kind of swinging our fist towards someone. You see, the Estonian fist is not big enough to wave it anywhere. Estonia has stood for its independence and security, and it has considered them to be very important, no matter who has been in our government, including representatives of the Centre Party. Now the other half of the question. If we look at bilateral relations between Estonia and Russia in the last ten years, I do not want to create great illusions, but we have sometimes reached a point where we are able to overcome what has been difficult in our history and often has caused problems based on emotions. I very much hope that this statement, which was adopted by the Riigikogu a few weeks ago, is also a certain sign on the way to making use of new opportunities. But you also know very well yourself, thanks to cross-border cooperation in South-East Estonia, that all projects are implemented and all objectives are achieved, or they have real benefits when there is mutual will, mutual interest. And, as I said in the presentation by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have been discussing in the Committee on Foreign Affairs during its membership that, although there are problems in our relations, the most important thing is dialogue, the existence of contacts at any level, in order to find a solution to the problems. The Foreign Affairs Committee visited South-East Estonia in September and met with the rural leaders of South-East Estonia, and we also visited Pihkva, Petseri, Pihkva consulate, and we became familiar with cross-border cooperation. Let me put it this way: having perhaps seen these processes taking place from a distance in the last ten years, positive expectations are now greater than ever. This is a sufficient basis on which we can work to reduce the number of outstanding issues on our table.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U89	Please, colleague Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Asking questions has gotten a little messed up today. My question was originally intended for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I will now present it to you. This concerns the Afghanistan mission. In the coming years, our largest ally in NATO, the United States, will reduce its contingent in Afghanistan. I fully appreciate our current allied commitment, but unfortunately, the Estonian contingent is now located in a very dangerous area of southern Afghanistan, where Taliban activity is likely to increase. In cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have you also discussed in your committee the security issue of our soldiers that comes with this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U91	Thank you for that question. Undoubtedly, Estonia's foreign missions, including Estonia's participation in the Afghanistan mission, are very important in our work. As a member of the National Defence Commission, you know that together we will receive a regular operational review of what is happening in the mission areas. Following the visit of the National Defence Commission to Afghanistan, the Chairman of the Commission Raidma also told us about the latest developments in the region. I think that a long-term view is extremely important in making all such decisions. Once again, I believe that 2013 may be the year in which we, together with our partners, need to think seriously about the structure of our mission as well as the possible change of objectives, given that the objective is, in fact, that control in the provinces of Afghanistan should gradually be transferred to the Afghan Government. We know that today, unfortunately, the Afghan Government has very little capacity to support, with its budget and other resources, even the maintenance of the army, not to mention the strengthening of society and the promotion of the economy. This really raises the question of how long the Western countries and international forces still need to support the Afghan Government. It is clear that we are not talking about short-term problems. But, as I said, next year, in the context of the debate on our mission to Afghanistan, the year in which we should think much more seriously about the objectives and content of the mission, together with our partners, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U92	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, as a member of the Estonian-Turkey parliamentary group, I received a letter from the Riigikogu Administration, which included a referral and called for a boycott of the presidential elections of the Russian Federation. It is a separate anecdote and makes it smile that the proposal was made to the members of the Estonian-Turkey parliamentary group, who are probably all Estonian citizens. However, it gave me the impetus to ask the next question. In the Foreign Minister's speech, the sentence was that the European Union, also means Estonia, will continue to support the development of democracy, the rule of law and civil society in Russia. What better way to boycott or actively participate in the presidential elections? What message would you give to Russian taxpayers living in Estonia, who have a hundred thousand, from this remote control?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U94	I need to look at you, good Mikhail, and tell you that I know nothing about this appeal. Where could that have come from? That sounds pretty absurd. But as regards the internal political situation in Russia, I think you, as a Narva resident, know very well what fundamental changes have taken place in recent months. As I said in the Commission's report, we have been following quite closely the situation that has developed since the December elections. The European Union and the European Parliament have made it very clear that the procedures for applying for election have not been open to all those who wish to see that there have been quite a number of violations that have been proven and controlled by Internet sources. We are very well aware of the debate that is currently taking place in our neighbouring Russia in connection with the approaching presidential elections. It is certainly in the interests of both Estonia and the European Union as a whole that internal developments in all our neighbouring countries, including Russia, are predictable, constitutional. If you read the Russian Constitution, which was adopted in 1993, you will see that it gives all citizens the right to freedom and also to power, with a commitment that the interests of all citizens living in Russia are taken into account. And they can best be taken into account in free and fair elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U95	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! In your speech, you mentioned with a good word the honorary consuls of Estonia all over the world, who do an excellent job of their own free will and often of their own free time. As a curious person, I was right here on my computer looking at the Home Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who these honorary consuls are. They are in alphabetical order all over the world, in Asia and Africa, in an important country like the Philippines, with even two of them. I got to the "V" and found only Venezuela. What's the matter? Is that where the State Department ran out of Internet, or did the alphabet end? I think that Russia is a rather controversial country for us, a number of threats from it, the more information we should get, all kinds of contacts and keep. Didn't there really find one among 160 million people who would respect Estonia? Or does Estonia not want to have an honorary consul in Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U97	Thank you, Viktor! You know, I surprise you with my answer. Russia is actually the country where Estonia has the most diplomatic representation. I think it speaks for itself, and that's the answer to the question. We have an embassy, as you all know, in Moscow, we have a consulate in St Petersburg, our consulate works in Pihkva. And, of course, this is not a secret, we all have quite a lot of good contacts with Russia, the aim of which is that one day these relations will be one that gives us all satisfaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U98	Please, my colleague Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I will continue to ask you, as an expert in foreign policy, about Russia. Namely, what do you consider the perspectives of relations between Estonia and Russia after the presidential elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U100	Thank you, Andrus, for this question. I'm an optimist. There is a perspective in relations between Estonia and Russia, but we have not been able to take advantage of it for 20 years. It is true that there is obviously no need to delve into the details of what these problems have been about over 20 years. Perhaps one of the most important factors has been that mutual will and consistency have been somewhat lacking in addressing existing problems. However, as I said before when I answered one question: I have experienced that there have been more positive messages in our relations over the last few years, and I believe that Russia, too, at the level of foreign policy decision-makers, is perceived as having much more to gain from good neighbourly relations and lasting interests in these good neighbourly relations with Estonia than from this dead-end chicken plucking in Russia. However, the activities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, which we have discussed at the meetings of the committee, have been united in this direction. We are working to expand the possibilities of contact and dialogue with Russia at different levels, so perhaps the problems that have persisted so far will at last be resolved and reduced on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U101	Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I very much like the way in which the Committee on Foreign Affairs works, that the problem is being analysed for a long time, is being listened to on the subject. The analysis of the embassy network also discussed the priority development of economic diplomacy towards Asia. You mentioned that you have put together 23 proposals, that is quite a lot. Could they be enlightened a little bit more? And there are certainly more important things that will change in Estonia's diplomatic representation in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U103	Enough of the recommendations we have made to the Government of the Republic, I also mentioned in my report. These recommendations are all available on the Riigikogu website. I wouldn't start reading them here one by one. But I would like to talk about one thing that we've taken more of a look at this in the last year. We have, in fact, been working on my memory here at the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee every year, going over the development plan of foreign representations over the last nine years, or rather analysing the individual moments that will be taken into account in drawing up the development plan. This interest is very well aligned with the desire of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to analyse the situation further. We know very well that Estonia has reached different structures in its integration so far that we can calmly analyse where the current representation is good, where it is still weak, where it may be missing at all, but perhaps there are also places where we should not place our resources in this way. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has also developed very good cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue, and I believe that we can best spend the few resources that we have on the most, primarily on the basis of our real foreign policy goals, including foreign economic policy goals and the best possible introduction of Estonia. That's what we're working for. All of this, however, is like a living document, on which we certainly do not put a fat point at the moment. As I said, at the end of the year, we will come back to these questions again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U104	Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! My question concerns India. As we know, India is the second country in the world, and as the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned, Estonia is planning to open its own representation in India. When is India planning to open its representation in Estonia and when will India become visa-free for Estonian citizens? Is there any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U106	Undoubtedly, India is an extremely important country and probably will not pass very long when it becomes the largest country in the world in terms of population. I have a good opportunity to get closer acquainted with India in a week's time when I'm going to visit New Delhi and Mumbai with a delegation from the Development Fund. With regard to the Asian report, we have discussed quite a number of issues at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including, as a whole, covering the interests that the Development Fund has addressed in the context of India's monitoring, and I believe that this visit will provide new information on the issues you mentioned. We have visa liberalisation with a whole range of Asian countries and the possibility of staying in one country or another for up to 90 days. I believe that, as the biggest democracy in Asia, India could one day be more free and open to our citizens than their current visa regulations allow. The opening of the Estonian embassy in India, however, is extremely timely and helps to bring these goals closer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U107	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U108	Thank you very much. I am delighted and proud to be here in the Riigikogu and to listen to the presentation of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This was different from the presentation by the Foreign Minister. I think it was more in the spirit of the 21st century, because there was a very long stop at Asia and the giants there. Consequently, I am also asking about Asia, continuing with the issue of India. I ask the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs why it is that the Republic of Estonia found its way to Beijing years ago, opened an embassy there, but only in 2012 will we begin to reach India, which is not only the biggest democracy in Asia, but the world's largest democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U109	Thank you, good Marianne, for the good words and also for a very interesting question. In the processes that began in the early 1990s, the way the Estonian network of foreign representations began to develop, it was undoubtedly the focus of attention to the European countries, our immediate neighbourhood. The aim was to ensure very firmly our rapid accession to the European Union, NATO and other structures. It is possible that such remote embassies were more costly embassies for the Estonian state then than in the immediate neighbourhood. And basically, as I said, our foreign policy goals and challenges were different at the time when they were today. But it's never too late. Probably now that we are about to open up the embassy in India and the Riigikogu is discussing Asian topics, you as the leader of the India Friendship Group have a very important contribution in this regard, we will also be able to make better use of the opportunities that have emerged especially in the case of India over the last decade. Let us be honest, if we compare India today and India in 1991, 1992, 1993, then these are very different countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Mihkelson, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for this presentation. Before I open negotiations with five speakers, I propose that the Committee on Foreign Affairs vote on the proposal to extend the time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We need to vote this through. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please vote! 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents, 1 abstention. The session is extended until 14 p.m. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to call on the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Enn Frontland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U111	Honourable guests! Colleagues! It is ambiguous for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to begin with a summary of the state's foreign policy year and the vision of future trends from the previous Estonian Head of State Lennart Meri with a meaningfully pioneering quote about success and the speed of progress. At the same time, it certainly refers to commendable continuity, but on the other hand, unfortunately, perhaps even on the trails that were ever built upon the new day, or in other words, on the large amount of work that has not been done and the few that have been achieved. I remember quite well the circumstances at the time when the President spoke with this inspiring statement. In retrospect, one can only wonder how much the world as a whole, and for us at the time, has changed among the dreams of the future and the European Union, which was entirely in the sphere of foreign policy, over these years. Of course, the speed at which we are moving towards our goals is still important, but today it would be nice to hear a little bit about progress, even in some countries. Unfortunately, so many new factors are holding back this speed, which even in the days of President Meri did not foresee. However, it has become even more important than speed, given the fact that there are many decision-makers, few resources, especially in Estonia. Nevertheless, the changes have been fundamental and surprisingly rapid. After all, the European Community became the European Union, both in substance and in form only 20 years ago. The Maastricht Treaty laid down clear rules for the future single currency, as well as for foreign and security policy, and envisaged closer cooperation on justice and home affairs. There was also a significant shift in the wording of the European Union's objective. Social protection issues became much more important than before, the principle of subsidiarity was introduced in the social policy of the European Union, and the standard of living and quality of life indicators were more closely monitored and analysed. Since then, we are increasingly talking about economic and social cohesion throughout the European Union, about economic growth having to be sustainable, sustainable and non-inflationary. In this European Union, most Estonians were happy to live. Despite the many praisers of the Treaty that promised a more favourable future to Europeans, agreements on the so-called three-pillar policy were born painfully in some countries. In Germany, the Treaty was appealed to the Constitutional Court. It was important to the Germans that the Treaty was not a Federation-creating treaty, but an intergovernmental agreement. In France, only 51% of the voters supported the agreement, which was almost unheard of. At least, according to their political leaders, the French were particularly Euro-minded. In the Danish referendum, the majority of the people opposed the Treaty. The problem was solved by some exemptions granted to Denmark in certain areas of joint work. Some of the current major problems of the European Union started just then. The ratification of the Maastricht Treaty was only completed in November 1993. Today, 20 years later, the European Union is quite in a similar position, in fact, but in a sadder state, because the objectives of that then should have been met by now. Who would have thought 20 years ago that the veteran president of Greece would take courage in 2012 and slap it in the direction of Finland, the Netherlands and some other countries and people that you think you are, that you criticize and discipline us Greeks? Yes, indeed, there are those who believe that the European Union has no hope for the future. The opinion of the masses is usually based not so much on the value of action as on the success of action. It is really difficult to talk about significant progress right now. The eurozone is raging, even though Iceland has decided to join it because of its misfortune. The crisis in the euro area undermines Europe's security and political cohesion, which, after all, supports the whole of the European Union. Public debt in problem countries is in some cases well above 100% of GDP. The capital plans of a large part of Europe's leading banks are therefore problematic. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U112	Most banks try to sell assets, recalculate risks and manage liabilities, so they buy back bonds with a price below the nominal value. However, the problems are not just problems for banks or countries in Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy, but even where everything should be in order: in the committees of the European Union. The salaries of the EESC and CoR officials will start at EUR 130000 per month and amount to a sum higher than the monthly remuneration of the Prime Minister of Great Britain. And all in the conditions of the required savings! For years now, some of the top leaders have expressed the opinion that both of them are quite a few things to do and a kind of luxury committee could be disbanded altogether. The European Parliament, which is the only institution directly elected by the nations, has little opportunity to make a more decisive contribution, for example, to the European External Action Service, which is the subject of today's debate. Catherine Ashton's administration operates in substance without parliamentary scrutiny and is still in the process of forming. In practice, Estonia can only rely on cooperation in this area with the huge financial-absorbing huge authority of Baroness Ashton, which is only at the level of providing consular services, which is certainly insufficient given our scarce resources. And yet there are islands in this sea of distress that promise salvation, in fact, developments. Due to increasing difficulties, the European Union is increasingly forced to analyse the activities of its central bodies and Member States in a more real and critical way. Strict monitoring and control, along with punishment measures, have started to replace the go-lapse mentality and blue-eyed belief. After all, this is a voluntary association of countries, most of which use the same money Citizens of all Member States must realise that the problems of the Community really concern each of us. The blame is not so much on the Greeks as on the people, but on the leaders elected in their elections, whose most economic laws and regulations were irresponsibly ignored by the populist economic and financial policies, this ancient country has been brought to the brink of disaster. In Greece, the new government and cooperation between Athens and Brussels are now much smoother. Despite the continuous protests of thousands of people, the Greek Parliament also approved the harsh cut-off plan. Yesterday's news confirms that disaster has been prevented this time, although the question remains for how long. Many of our decisions and omissions help shape the Estonian foreign display. One of these, which is topical today, is Estonia's decision on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), all the more so as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is primarily involved in this matter. The only way out is seen in many countries in an in-depth analysis of the trade agreement and in a free debate involving all interested parties. The Estonian Central Party and the faction of our party Riigikogu consider this to be a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U113	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Herkel, to represent the Group of the Isamaa and the Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U115	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Foreign Minister and the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee made a thorough presentation, and no area could be left out of focus. Once again, I would like to emphasise what I referred to earlier in the question: that the working style of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is very sympathetic. This is the Commission, which does not deal with the drafts as others do, its work is based on analysis and on hearings on the subject. And the issues to be discussed, which in the past have also been related to Russia and energy security, have now come to the analysis of the Asia Strategy and the Embassy Network. It also proved that the Baltic Sea security environment was in the perspective. It is very good for Parliament to be involved in foreign policy in this way. Of course, I would have liked to have seen, perhaps, that when we talked about Asia, especially China, there was a clearer motive for value, which, by the way, came up sympatheticly a year ago in the foreign policy debate. I believe that no one would object to the fact that one of the main events of last year in Estonia was his visit to Estonia by the Dalai Lama of Holiness, regardless of how it is on the axis of value or pragmatism. It was particularly strange for me to hear here when one Member asked whether the politicians' meeting with the Nobel Peace Prize laureate was perhaps not unfulfilled. Any other criteria of pragmatism may be raised in this regard, but not inhospitability. As the world changes rapidly, it may not be possible in the future to rule out that Europe or some European countries will in the near future be somewhat distant from democracy in the vortex of the debt crisis. And perhaps in Asia, the Fareed Zakaria prophecy that economic success and prosperity will eventually inevitably bring about greater democratic and political freedoms will be more and more fulfilled. Indeed, the last year was, as has been said many times today, a year of rapid, unexpected changes. It was hardly possible to predict these events, we are talking about the Arab Spring, we are talking about the Greek crisis and the European debt crisis. Perhaps, in retrospect, it seems that this should have been the most predictable for us. We are now also talking about an outbreak of civil courage and new withdrawals in Russia. If a year ago, the foreign minister had reason to stress that Estonia is one of the best integrated countries in the region, then we now see how international integration, primarily through the euro zone, also highlights responsibility for problems that we have not been involved in in any way. Yes, against this background, Estonia's image has improved in Europe. This is mainly due to good financial policy indicators, plus cyber defence, information technology. Perhaps more would like to hear how we use our improved status and the resulting moral capital. Fortunately, the times have passed when the main task of the Estonian diplomat was to think about what others think of us. We need to be more and more clear about it ourselves. I have also stressed in the past that alongside the traditional European value troika, human rights, the rule of law and democracy, a balanced principle of fiscal responsibility must be put in place. Fortunately, this conservative value has been honoured in Estonia; here we can be direction indicators. But there is certainly a need to emphasise this principle more clearly. I would like to make a side comment here on human rights. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U116	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U117	We talk a lot about this subject, but the practical capacity of our NGOs, even when compared to the capacity of developed European countries, including Scandinavian countries, to contribute to the protection of human rights in the world is extremely weak. Yes, we are making some progress in development cooperation, but in defending human rights as a bigger issue that could be important to Estonia, there is really no such real cover as it should be. The question now is whether the good image I mentioned above will contribute to Estonia's success. Sure, but that's not enough. Greater emphasis on economic diplomacy and the protection of Estonia's interests in this area are certainly the direction that our group supports and attaches importance to. I would also like to emphasise the importance of defence and security policy in a situation where the temptation to pinch money there is generally dangerously high in the world, including among our allies. The above was a reference to Lennart Meri's words that success will be achieved by those who are quick to perceive the changes that are taking place. Rapid changes in the world certainly have a bearing on the subject of ACTA's agreement that has been the subject of recent discussions. This really seems to be an example of how policy makers have not been able to take sufficient account of the changing world and where it is necessary to make compensatory adjustments to the freedom of the Internet, which the Foreign Minister also found in his presentation. Yes, we must consider a changing world. However, given that this wave of change is linked to great active citizenship in many countries, and not just to ordinary active citizenship, but also to street protests, we must think very much about how much these foreign policy issues, be they ACTA or ESM, are increasingly relevant to ordinary citizens in Estonia. This means that the style of handling such issues must also be significantly changed, and the people must be able to contribute more so that they feel genuinely involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U118	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sven Mikser, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the exchange of the previous speaker, who said that all important issues were sufficiently focused in the Minister's presentation, I believe that all important topics were marked, but probably because of the desire to mark all important topics, focusing on really important things was weaker. Unfortunately, this has been the case in our foreign policy discussions for quite a few years. We have talked about the fact that Estonia's greatest foreign policy values are that it is a relatively consensual policy. But I think it is extremely important that we have this consensus around really important issues for Estonia at national level and not based on the'smallest common name'. How do you not agree that the European debt crisis is at the heart of international attention, that regulating relations between Palestine and Israel will continue to require attention, that development cooperation represents the country's global responsibility, or that globalisation creates both new needs and opportunities. It is certainly easy to agree on these positions. Another important issue besides consensus is the consistency of foreign policy. We certainly know how we ourselves have paid very great attention to the fact that, in the final documents of the NATO summits, for example, in the communiqués, the importance of collective protection is always exceeded by the repeated Article 5, because the absence of it would, regrettably, stab us in the eye. Surely, though, it is not worth overdoing this principle. I do not think, for example, that the President of the United States should repeat in every annual speech that Osama bin Laden is dead. I did something that is not usually done in our foreign policy discussions: before today's debate, I went through quite thoroughly the speeches made by the ministers during the foreign policy discussions of the four previous years, that is, the whole of the previous Riigikogu. And it's the same minister. There I found three topics that have gone on for us in such an anti-climatic key. One of them is the Eastern Partnership of the European Union. In 2009, the Minister said that the agreement on the establishment of an Eastern Partnership was the biggest progress of last year in common security and foreign policy. Nearly a page of the presentation was devoted to this subject. A year later, the Minister, quoting the Polish Foreign Minister Sikorski of his time, said: 'In South we have European neighbours, and in the East we have our neighbours in Europe. " 2011 was also a time of relatively resonating words: " Our aim is to avoid dividing lines in Europe. Our goal is the political and economic integration of Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine. These countries are closer to Europe today than ever before. ' In 2012, a relatively technical approach and a focus, in particular, on the further development of a certain contractual base between these countries and Europe, will give rise to the tone. And it is not clear from this report whether it is because these sound political geostrategic goals have already been stoned enough or, on the contrary, something has happened within the internal political framework of these countries that, in such a resounding voice, no longer allows them to talk about full integration. It is interesting to look at the development of Georgia in our foreign policy presentations, for example. In 2008, the Minister spoke quite thoroughly about the problem of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. A separate section was about our support for Georgia's desire to become a NATO Membership Action Plan before the Bucharest Summit. In 2009, following the Russian-Georgia War, a page and a half were understood to be devoted directly to the beginning of the presentation of the consequences of this war, emphasising the non-acceptability of violent changes in borders. In 2010, the Minister of State said that the commitment made to Ukraine and Georgia in 2008 to join the Alliance was still valid. In 2011, the Minister also spoke about the basis for resolving the conflict in Georgia, which is one of the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. This year's presentation included a section on free trade, development aid and training through the Eastern Partnership Centre. So this anti-climatic tendency is very clearly visible. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U120	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U121	The European External Action Service (EEAS) is a separate issue. In 2008, the Minister said that preparations were under way for the creation of an External Action Service with more than 100 representations. While the focus was on bilateral consular and visa cooperation in 2009, in 2010 the Minister said that the European Union's foreign policy would become more coherent and therefore globally influential in implementing the Treaty of Lisbon and that it would be assisted by the creation of a strong and comprehensive European External Action Service (EEAS). By 2012, this service should be fully manned and the creation of the External Action Service will mean substantial and rapid work for Estonia and the European Union as a whole in the short term. Since then, there has been considerable silence in the presentations on this issue, or as the English says: 'Enormous presence of absence. ' In fact, I think that this is one lesson for our future foreign policy discussions. We should not base our foreign policy discussions on the principle that foreign policy starts again every year and marks the most important issues of the moment. Rather, we should focus on what the trend is, what the developments are in the areas that we have previously declared as our foreign policy priorities in our parliamentary debates, and also speak honestly about it when it calls for criticism of whether our countries of destination, our strategic partners or often our own priorities or action. I would certainly like to have a critical mind and a willingness to look back on whether the objectives we have set in the past have been met, or at least whether the developments on these issues have been substantive and in the right direction. And if not, there should certainly be a deeper analysis of why our developments have been exactly the way they have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U122	Thank you, Mr Sven Mikser. I would now like to ask Mr Raivo Järvi, the speaker's colleague, as a representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Despite the criticism that has sounded, I too will start with a bit of a militant, i.e. security policy. If we recall our history, then indeed, the greatest desire of the people of Estonia has been NATO membership, including joining the European Union. And now we are actually seeing the fruits of what has happened, with the recent decision of the North Atlantic Council, our air security mission continues. The fact that we are once again among the champions who have met this 2% requirement has certainly also helped me to think of 2% of GDP. From the point of view of protecting us, it is good to switch to our northern neighbours. I remember a foreign analyst once stressed the uniqueness of Estonia's relationship with Finland on the basis of tribal brotherhood. Our Committee on Foreign Affairs has maintained these contacts and why not deepen them further. Very interesting tendencies will be in relation to Finland, where the President has become a suitable candidate for us, or the Reform Party, who has expressed his sympathy for NATO, although he will probably not take Finland to this alliance during his reign. But there are interesting tendencies. If we look at cuts in US defence spending and similar cuts in Finland, the question arises as to whether it is best for Finland to act at the level of expedition corps, which should be extremely appropriate for us. It is certainly not worth underestimating our relationship with Sweden, another neighbouring country. In our media publications, the button that passed through the Finnish YLE news was completely out of focus, which said that Swedish mercenaries have even developed a plan to help Estonia militarily in case such a need arises. So when it comes to security in both Finland and Sweden, there will be interesting tendencies. If we go from here to other friends, then surely our tooth, if that is the case with rural languages, will be the best place to consult Moldova and Georgia. There is hope in the air that the stalemate in Moldova will finally end and that we can really help our friends better. As far as Georgia is concerned, I would like to believe that there will continue to be governance in accordance with good political taste, as well as the practice of true parliamentaryism, and that it will avoid leaning towards autocracy. Then we can continue to be at the Georgia Friends' Club and help them much more effectively than we have done so far. And if we stop this military block, then over and over again, our soldiers in Afghanistan are fully recognized as 'out of record', out of protocol, highlighting their positive contribution. I would like to congratulate the previous Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who once took us to Tartu for a seminar on Defence College Afghanistan. There was the idea that the worst is if we give our opposite representatives an image that, at some point in time, we would really leave there. This was also emphasised by a close relative of Karzai. In fact, this plan has come true in the case of a ten - year rampage, it has become the impression that this power really is there to remain. And if anyone questions the meaning of this whole operation, where we have emphasised our ally relationship with NATO and the United States in particular, please note: as the greatest surprise to Al Qaeda and other terrorist organisations in the Arab world, the fact that this was indeed the operational way in. Since then, there have been no major global terrorist acts. It certainly does not deserve to be mentioned more precisely in our partnership with the United States, simply because it is completely problem-free. Speaking of recent tendencies, as a very sympathetic fact, I stress that the United States has joined our cyber defence competence centre. As far as the Arab Spring is concerned, it's still dark who's behind all this. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U124	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U125	When it comes to the Muslim Brotherhood, it was most likely that Algeria would collapse. But, oh, surprise! Everything has gone differently. It is also worth pointing out to us here that Turkey, which is also a very important and real key player, has come up for us. Turkey has a much more powerful economy than the notorious Iran, let alone its military competence. When our Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Turkey, we were truly positively surprised by both its dynamism and its Western attitude. This is a relationship that we should definitely value and maintain. There has been criticism here that has touched on our attitudes towards Russia. Let us mention the opinion of Professor Sokolov, who visited Estonia a few years ago. According to his predictions, there was another revolution in Russia, only as his dignified historian could not tell what color it would be. Well, that's for history to decide. However, when it comes to relations with colleagues at even the level of the State Duma, despite the tendencies in the government, in the highest storeroom, this chemistry has always worked perfectly. Our desire to meet our colleagues in the State Duma is still there, and it is certainly worth doing. Now, of this latest, most modern trend, if I may say so. Indeed, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has paid great attention to Asia. I would also appreciate our recent visit to Japan and South Korea. Here I come a little back to neighbouring Finland. A meeting in Seoul, South Korea, in the residence of the Finnish ambassador, was really very valuable, asking how you had so much wit and moan that you came to Korea and did not visit China, which is currently a so-called trend country. However, in the case of South Korea, it is a dynamic country, and it is also the country which is much more acceptable to us. Here I would like to congratulate my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We were brought up with the Asian strategy and, in the first review, it was sent back because it needed improvement, needed modernisation, needed improvement. I'm glad it's gonna be like this by now, I'd say, a vertebrate note ready. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who has spoken here on behalf of both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Reform Party agrees with these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U126	Thank you very much, Mr Järvi. I would now like to ask Mr Imre Sooääre, the speaker's colleague. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U127	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! The whole world is standing on the crossroads today! The growth models that have been in place so far have exhausted themselves and, in view of the increasing debt burden, many are asking how they will proceed. Estonia sets an example for many countries with its growth and budget figures, but this example does not in itself bring bread on our table or create new jobs. Prosperity in society can only occur if there is real growth. However, what can be done to increase prosperity is now a key issue for the markets. Experts in the world consider the growth potential of an ageing country to be not the highest. The figures we have heard from Marko Mihkelson in this Chamber also speak for themselves: European economic growth over the last four years, 0.3%, while in China, +42%. Having visited many Asian countries myself, I believe it is not an anomaly or a statistical bluff. This is a reality that shows very clearly the dynamics and trends of the world economy. If we don't notice these changes, we can just miss our chances. Today we need to focus our eyes on the future and formulate our greater goals for the next ten years. We have to dare and want to look further than we look from our own filth even with the best monocular. Figuratively speaking, we must look beyond the earth's curvature, where there are distant markets and more growth potential. That is why we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been very active in our Asia strategy and we have carefully considered our network of foreign representations. But looking further away, at the same time, we must look in the mirror on the wall of these distant lands and ask how many of us can be seen there. How many people know us, and what do we think about our little country? Unfortunately, we have to admit that we are sometimes overoptimists in this regard. Recently, I was at a committee meeting in Brussels, where a representative of the parliament of a large European Union country asked me where this Estonia is exactly and what you have there. When our colleagues, Members of Parliament in Europe, ask such questions, what else can we talk about in the rest of the world? But it is extremely important that we are known because the image of Estonia in the world directly affects our interest in our economy, goods and services, our people and our state, our credibility. A positive image contributes to economic growth and a favourable position in the global ranking of countries. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we make our small country known in the world with limited resources? We're not rich enough to buy CNN TV ads 'Welcome to Estonia! '. And even if we did, a lot of people would be asking, "Welcome, yes, but what is Estonia? What about the name of a ship? ' We could use more of the world's largest marketing engine, or social networks. A positive grassroots network was also mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this Chamber today. That was 'Let's do it! ', which, under Rainer Nõlvak's leadership, has become the global movement 'Let's do it! World. This very simple and sincere story of a small nation who was able to gather its strength in one day has an incredibly great potential to grow into a world success story and address people better than, for example, abstract 'Welcome to Estonia! '. I am convinced that it is the real success story, which would be fascinating and unique, that must be applied to the chariot of the international image design of the Estonian state. A story that speaks to countries and peoples regardless of national, cultural or political differences. I believe 'Let's do it! ' would be a story that would help to introduce Estonia even better throughout the world. Its purpose in itself is simple: to preserve the untouched nature and to live in a cleaner environment. These are values that many people in the world value. Having heard our story, they continue to tell it through their networks, and that is how the effects of scale are created. I propose that the same story be used as the flag of the reputational design of the entire Estonian state. At the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union for the Mediterranean, I presented for the first time a report of the same name 'Let's do it! The World, which we are currently preparing with Stefan Schennach, member of the Austrian Parliament's House of Lords. With a rare consensus, all the representatives of the Member States accepted the call for an initiative born in Estonia to be taken to all Euromed and North African countries. It was amazing that even the Israeli and Palestinian representatives promised to cooperate in the drafting of the report, which is relatively rare in this area of concern. The idea born in Estonia thus helps to unite countries and peoples. I believe that Estonia should shoulder it even more strongly at government level and through EAS, so that this idea reaches as many people as possible on our planet. Juvenile design experts say that certain connections are best established in people's memory. When reference is made to geographical names, which of us does not know such words as Kyoto and the Protocol, Sydney and the Opera House, Schengen and the Visa Space, Egypt and the Pyramids. What, though, does the word Estonia relate to? What comes first in this regard? Have we done enough to create this picture? We could probably do more! The image of the state depends on many factors. Part of the image is independent of us and influenced by the way the world's media reflects us. The second part depends in many respects on us and on how we actively inform the world ourselves. Unfortunately, the reputation of the Estonian state as a whole is currently uncoordinated and fragmented between a large number of institutions. There is no common strategy and there is no specific responsibility. The image of Estonia needs thoughtful real steps. Every PR expert will confirm to you how important this is. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also stated that we need meaningful action in shaping the positive image of our country. At the same time, Estonia also needs a new communication strategy that will help us better realise our goals in international markets and remain competitive. Let's do it! ' speaks with a very clear message, makes you think about it and talk about Estonia. It is already a brand with global potential, which was born as a citizens' initiative to improve something together. A good colleague, Juku-Kalle Raid, has also proposed an alternative in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: 'Visit Estonia before Estonia visits you! ' I'm sure it's a very funny alternative, but as the moodbreaker case showed, the rest of the world may not always understand our black humor as well as we do. Ladies and gentlemen, We all have the opportunity to contribute to Estonia's introduction, wherever we are. When we are away from Estonia, we are actually all ambassadors of this country. Let us not forget, then, that good stories spread from mouth to mouth and from Facebook page to Facebook page! If our story helps to make the world cleaner and better, we have already taken a long step forward. So, guys, let's do this 'Lets do it! World's off! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-21_U128	Thank you very much, Mr Sooäär. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 13.10 a.m.
