ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U1	We have come to agenda item 13. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Tax Administration Act begins. Priit Sibula, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, for presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U2	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! First of all, I still consider myself green, both as a politician and as onion. What do I mean by that? I hope that if I pass on the basics of the debate in the Commission, our debate here will go constructively and quickly. I will start by saying that I think it would be appropriate to thank the chairman of the committee and all the members of the committee, because together we have made this good bill even better in my opinion. I recall that the first reading took place on 26 September and that the deadline for submitting amendments was 12 October. The changes were presented by the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Association of Estonian Student Unions, Jaak Allik, member of the Riigikogu, and jointly by the student communities of the University of Tartu, Tallinn University of Technology and Estonian University of Life Sciences. Before and after the first reading, the Committee on Culture asked the opinion of the Association of Estonian Students Unions, the Association of Estonian Parents, the Council of Rectors, the Constitutional, Social and Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. We discussed this draft seven times in committee. In addition, both I and the chairman of the committee met several interested parties, including students. Of course, a representative of the initiator of the draft took part in the meetings of the Commission. Several amendments were proposed to the draft. Some of the most important things I'm talking about now. One of them intended to lower the requirement for 100% completion of the curriculum to 85% under the conditions of need-based learning support. The initiator and the majority of the Commission did not support this proposal. According to the founder of the bill, learning without reimbursement of study costs and need-based learning support are a prerequisite for a higher education institution to create all the opportunities for the student to study. The study volume is not automatically 30 credits, but the university provides a volume and allows it to be completed. Similarly, it is not possible to predict the effects of completing a 85% curriculum. This may become an informed choice for the student, and therefore the concept of free higher education becomes inconsistent. Several proposals were taken into account in the draft and several amendments were made. First of all, I am talking about differentiation of subsidies. There was still one step in the draft, with a grant of EUR 135 per student. The Commission has now proposed that if the income per family member is up to EUR 70, the student allowance will be EUR 220, if the income is between EUR 70 and EUR 140, the allowance will be EUR 135 and if the income is between EUR 140,01 and EUR 280, the student allowance will be EUR 75. If the income per family member is more than 280 euros, it is not possible to apply for the allowance. Secondly, the need-based education allowance does not count as income when calculating income support. The third important decision is that a student of up to 24 years of age is considered to be related to his or her parents when calculating the need-based education allowance. So far, the bill had this age limit of 26 years. I would remind you that the deadline for submitting proposals was 12 October. However, on Friday, 30 November, the Student Association had a proposal asking for grants to be differentiated by 10 euros. However, as I said, neither the initiator of the draft nor the majority of the Commission could discuss this proposal because it was submitted too late. I spoke to the head of the Student Association. He said that they simply wanted to pay further attention to this and that they knew that they had submitted this proposal later than the deadline. The Commission also took procedural decisions. Firstly, it was decided to send the draft to second reading on 5 December. This decision was consensual, but it is now December 6th, December 5th. Secondly, it was proposed to close the second reading. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U3	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U4	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! My question concerns the bail-out of a student loan. At first reading in this Chamber, we discussed that a 66-year-old, although a very hard-working person could no longer be a guarantor of his grandson student. At that time, the Minister of Education and Research commented on this amendment and said that he did not know what the arguments of the banks were, why a 66-year-old could not be, but a very timid lady would no longer be a guarantor of student loans. Has the Commission discussed this issue in greater depth and discussed it again between two readings? What are the results of the discussion, why can Grandma no longer be the guarantor of her grandson's student loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U5	Thank you. We met between two readings with representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Research. We discussed the subject of student loans in depth and we will definitely come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U6	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U7	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm asking you about the volume of the curriculum. The rest of the changes that are being made to this bill are, in my opinion, quite reasonable, and they have achieved a good consensus with students and universities, but the volume of completion of the curriculum still worries me. I understand that it is reasonable to require a student to complete a 100% curriculum in order to receive a scholarship, but in my opinion, if needs-based study grants are offered, this rate could be 75%. Will you shed light on the debate that took place in the Commission and what were the main arguments why we are calling for a 100% curriculum rather than 75%?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U9	Thank you. Indeed, there were proposals to set this volume at 75% or 85%, but the main arguments put forward by the initiator of the draft were (i have already mentioned them) that this could be the practice of students and that it would be difficult for us to predict the impact of this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U10	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Amendment 3 states that the student's needs-based education allowance will be set by the state budget each year in three sizes, depending on whether the average student's income represents up to 25%, 50% or even 100% of the average income ceiling set by the state budget. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that the average income ceiling set by the state budget is EUR 280 in 2013. Can you explain to which analyses or arguments the average income ceiling was set at EUR 280?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U11	Thank you. This was proposed by the initiator of the draft and it seemed reasonable to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U12	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U13	Dear waitress, On page 2 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, there is a table that understands that the estimated number of students receiving this support is 16621. This misleading figure has gone into use in the press in the sense that so many will receive this support next year. Unfortunately, in yesterday's esteemed Mr. Glass article, there was this figure. A simple multiplicity shows that then EUR 21 million would be needed for education grants, which is not even foreseen in the most distant budget strategy. Can you tell the verbatim and the press exactly what the estimated number will be next in 2013, how many could receive this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U14	We can say the exact number when 2013 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U15	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, According to the draft, there is a right to apply for needs-based education allowance from 2013/14. year of study for students matriculated at the institution of higher education. Previously started, they can apply for basic support and are subject to existing regulations. As far as I am aware, the Commission received a number of proposals that all students should receive needs-based learning support. Will you explain why the Commission did not support these proposals and stick to the original option?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U17	Firstly, the Commission was guided by the fact that needs-based study grants should apply to students entering university under the new regime. In the case of previously matriculated students, support will continue to be provided as foreseen. That was the main argument. The second argument is likely to relate to the budget. These two reasons are the most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U18	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! As I understand it, between the first reading and the second reading of the draft, the proposed flat-rate EUR 135 has been replaced by three different amounts of support. You were talking about this in your speech, but it got a little messy. That is why I ask once again: for what reasons was it decided to replace one grant with three different amounts of aid, and which is why it was the case that the aid amounts were chosen: EUR 220, EUR 135 and EUR 75?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U20	Thank you, good questioner! The Commission received a proposal from both the Estonian Student Association and the students of three major universities, i.e. Tallinn University of Technology, the University of Tartu and the Estonian University of Life Sciences. The majority of the Commission could not quite take this into account, but a large part of this proposal was taken into account. That is why this proposal was brought to this great hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U21	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At the first reading of the draft, we discussed whether the need-based system of study grants should be central, as originally stated in the draft, or whether decision-making should be as close as possible to students. Since I am not a member of your committee, please explain whether it was decided to make a difference in this matter for the second reading of the draft. In addition, I am interested in who will decide upon receiving grants when the bill becomes a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U23	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U24	Thank you. There wasn't much discussion about that. It remained as the draft was: either the Ministry of Education and Research, his administration or the foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is undoubtedly gratifying that this draft has taken into account a number of proposals that have also been put forward by the Social Democrats. For example, the fact that this allowance is not included in income when calculating income support is also below the age limit. But here's the question. In Estonia, different laws are based on different incomes: in the case of child benefit based on needs, the income of previous months is taken as the basis, income for the previous month in the case of income support, and data for the income tax return for the previous year in the case of income support based on needs. However, it may happen that the student's parents or one parent, for example, have lost their job six months ago when the student went to school. Doesn't it seem to you that this foundation is not very well founded?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U26	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U27	Thank you. The problem you referred to may be one of the most serious of this bill. The Commission has dealt with this quite thoroughly. The universities were given an additional opportunity, which is also included in the explanatory memorandum. Universities can deal with such critical exceptional cases and it is reasonable that it takes place as close to the students as possible, i.e. it is handled by the university. Whether universities delegate this task to agencies or do so by rectors, it remains up to the university itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U28	Dear waitress, I guess you didn't want to understand my question. I ask: what could be the predicted number of students receiving support in 2013? The figure from this table is 16621 higher than the number of students entering the first course in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U29	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U30	I am based on what we discussed in the Commission and on what is set out in this table. I don't know any other account. So I'm having a hard time telling you another number.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is known that in different disciplines students study different periods of time. For example, they study public administration for three years, but medical science for at least six years, plus residency. When medical students graduate, they are already 30-year-old adults. Is it conceivable to differentiate the amount of education allowance by the length of the study period?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U32	No, it hasn't been a discussion. This is not necessary either, since until the age of 24, the student will be considered as a member of a single family. If he continues his studies after that, he will be an independent family. If his or her income falls below the limits set out in the law, he or she will be able to continue to apply for this allowance. So nothing changes for a student.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U33	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The Centre Party Group tabled an amendment to the draft, which provides for the student to be considered related to his or her parents until the age of 21. This was not supported on the grounds that the student studies much longer. I say the opposite: by the age of 21, many students have already completed their undergraduate studies. What is the real reason why the initiators did not agree to bring this age down more?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U35	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U36	Thank you. The initiator of the bill said that it would essentially take into account all students and extend to everyone that might not be in line with our options. The aim should still be to help those who really need it. Parents have the opportunity to help children who are studying in their higher education institutions. We in the Commission found that the 26-year-old proposed by the initiator of the draft is too high and reached consensus at the age of 24, which was also accepted by the Centre Party, although indeed, as Mr Black also said in the Commission, your proposal was 21 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We have predicted and discussed how many students are going to receive new, needs-based education support. When comparing the two explanatory notes to the draft, it turns out that, in the meantime, students whose income is less than EUR 280 have come up. This raised the question: how many students will receive need-based education support? I've been trying to figure it out somehow, looking at the data from Statistics, but unfortunately, they don't give any material for this calculation. I'll talk more about it later in my speech. Maybe you can say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U38	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U39	Thank you. I'm sorry, I can't. I'm not Pendulum-Volli or any other fortune teller. Well, in a way, life has to show it. We are only going to the new system from 2013. Thus, it is difficult for us now to predict the number of students to whom the new system applies and how many of them will apply for student support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you very much for your previous answer. As I understand it, there is once in the Estonian country when child benefit is paid on a need-based basis, and in the calculation of income support there is once again in the Estonian country how taxpayers' money is distributed. You don't have to be a psychic Nastya to realize that every university is going to make its own arrangements for study grants. This means that different universities interpret necessity differently. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U41	Thank you. The need-based education allowance is paid on the basis of this law. You mentioned in the previous question that the information on the income tax return is to be taken as a basis. My answer was to point out that, if exceptional cases, or particularly critical cases, are to come, it is up to the universities to decide. It happens differently from university to university.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U42	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, stated at first reading that EUR 300.400 could be the student's average monthly income that would be able to survive. But if you, a good waitress, were a student and received needs-based student support, how would you assess your chances of coping?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U44	Thank you. We have assumed that this is not the only source of income. If the family cannot support the student, he or she will remain able to apply for student loans. This support is only one possible tool for a student to focus on learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U45	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question also concerns income. I do not understand why the student's income is determined. When we initiated the draft, we talked about the right to receive student support if the average income per family member is below the limit of relative poverty calculated on the basis of the corresponding formula. Today, I understand that we are talking about the average income ceiling set by the state budget. How is the income of a student under 24 years of age and of members of his or her family calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U47	Thank you. Those students whose family's income per person is less than 280 euros can apply for needs-based education allowance. These people can apply for it and are eligible for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What happens if there are more students receiving needs-based education support than the budget includes money? How will this problem be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U50	Then I guess the government needs to look at their reserve. There's not a lot of other options.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U51	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U52	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, stated in this Chamber at first reading that some student proposals were excluded from the draft. However, the Minister argued that most student wishes and proposals were, as if, taken into account. Do the amendments taken into account by the Commission satisfy students' wishes and what is their position on the draft? However, how many student demands were met? I would, of course, like to ask the students who were on this balcony. They can't ask for it, so I'll ask for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U53	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U54	Thank you. They've been here a long time, they've been waiting since 6:00 p.m. in the evening. You could have talked to them if you wanted to. But I have been in contact with both those students and the head of the Estonian Student Union, who still thought the day before yesterday that the most important thing is that the law is adopted quickly and can be delivered on the basis of the new system. If life plays bottlenecks for us somewhere, then it will be possible to lose them later if there is a system under which it can be done. If this system doesn't exist, there's nothing you can do. As far as I understood the students, their message was that we should hurry and adopt this draft as a law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress and guests up there! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has found it doubtful whether the regulation which gives rise to the presumption of parental financial support without an obligation ensures that the objective of the draft is met, i.e. that the need-based education allowance is always delivered to those who need it most. How do you feel about this assessment? Explain, please, also what the initiators expect parents to support their children on the basis of!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U56	Thank you. It's hard for me to say what the founder of the bill thought. But in my opinion, and also in my view of the world, I consider it most natural that, just as young people support parents, parents support young people as they can. I think it is reasonable to assume that if parents are able to do so, they will. It's hard for me to find other reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U57	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! A student who is an Estonian citizen or who stays in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit or temporary residence permit or a permanent or fixed-term right of residence is entitled to need-based education allowance. This provision also introduces foreign students, including third-country nationals. How are we going to measure the income of a student in China or Belarus? What databases will be used to determine whether the income per family member is 280 euros or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U59	Thank you. If you had read the draft explanatory statement further, you would have reached the point where the answer to your question was written. These students will be dealt with by the applicant and will be required to provide documentation and proof of income in their home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U60	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! We know that needs-based learning support will be paid to students whose family lives in relative poverty. At times, it seems that such a change still places great responsibilities on the family, especially if the family is not very wealthy. My question is this: is there not too much responsibility for poorer families by creating needs-based learning grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U62	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I don't understand that! If taxpayers are jointly prepared to support families that are in a more difficult position, and EUR 3.5 million will be added to the 2013 budget, and this amount should double in the future, how we will impose additional burdens on families with such a financial allocation, unfortunately I do not understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U63	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U64	Thank you. It has been asked several times whether you know how many students are going to receive needs-based education support. In my opinion, this question is not justified in the sense that we can never predict how many students complete the curriculum 100%. Can you tell us how much more the state will contribute to needs-based learning support in the coming years compared to what it is currently doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U65	Thank you. In reply to the previous question, I have just said that in addition to the money for maintaining the existing system, the 2013 budget provides for an additional EUR 3.5 million. In total, this amount is expected to increase to EUR 18 million over four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U66	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! For example, when a young person goes abroad to study, acquires a specialty and comes to work here, this is a very welcome phenomenon. If so, does he also have the opportunity to receive student support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U68	If he meets the requirements laid down by law, he will certainly not be able to be prevented. If the student meets the requirements prescribed, he or she will have the opportunity to receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U69	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Maybe I just didn't understand you, but I'm still asking. When Mr Vasilyev asked about the age limit, which was 26 and now is 24 years old, you said that until the age of 24, the student is a member of a single family with his parents and that nothing will change for him, because he is then a 'private family'. Does this mean that the education allowance is still meant to be up to the age of 26, or did I misunderstand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U71	Thank you. Up to the age of 24, it is considered that the student is related to the parents, taking into account the student's parents, sisters and brothers, as prescribed by the law, when calculating this EUR 280. If he is older than 24, only he or she will be counted, and if he or she has a husband or a child, they too will be counted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U72	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U73	Thank you. I understand that there is a case-by-case education allowance that if a student who is entitled to a grant receives a scholarship from a fund and if this scholarship recognises his/her learning activities, he/she loses the need-based study grant. Did the Commission also have any amendments to prevent such successful training from being penalised? What was the debate on this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U74	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U75	Thank you. I don't remember having such suggestions. But I don't want to agree with you in any way that someone will be punished. This bill helps students coming from families with social problems to focus on learning; it does not have to solve people's income problems. No one will be punished by this law. That doesn't make any sense. At least I don't understand how this bill could punish anyone in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U76	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! You're kind of inconclusive, but I really hope we can warm you up and you'll respond later. The explanatory memorandum states, and also at the first reading of the draft, several times the statement that, firstly, the student will help to cover the costs of his or her studies for his or her family and, secondly, the student will always be able to take out student loans. How sensible does this option of borrowing seem to you, reminding you that during the economic crisis, many families were in trouble with the loan, and the student borrower no longer has the hope that the state will help with the repayment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U77	Thank you, dear colleague Priit. I understand you haven't finished college yet. It took me too long. But I took out a loan, my parents supported me, and everything worked. I don't see why I'm scared here. I think that just as my parents handled it, and I myself treated it as an investment in the future, so do others. We don't need to see a ghost that it's just expenses. First of all, it is not mandatory for anyone. But those who want to invest in their future, and those who have the chance, can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U78	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U79	Thank you very much. We are talking about calculating income support. It is quite positive that there has been an amendment to the draft, according to which the need-based education allowance is not included in income when calculating income support. How many families are among beneficiaries of income support, where there is also a student family member, or how many people might be affected by this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U80	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U81	Thank you. This is once again difficult to say, because these figures vary from age to age. Twenty-six years would have been one and twenty-four years would have been the second. But I do not think there is any reason for us to talk about this for a very long time today, because with this draft we were able to improve the situation of families in a particularly difficult situation in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U82	Thank you, good manager. A good colleague from the Commission! I am asking such a question, which may not be answered, in the sense that this was not specifically the focus of the Commission. Yet I am interested, and surely you have thought about it too: what will be the economic opportunities of our students compared to students from other countries of the European Union? What's the overall picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U83	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U84	Thank you. I'm not gonna answer that when you gave me that chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U85	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! Of course, at second reading, you will only be able to answer the questions on the basis of what was discussed in the Commission. But we also want to hear about the provisions and objectives of the bill, as the Rules of Procedure really do. I think that the question that Jaak Allik raised is most relevant in terms of costs. After all, we are also dealing with state budgets and state budget strategies here. Therefore, the question of how the next budgets are planned and what are about these forecasts, is very important for the members of the Riigikogu and later for the readers of the verbogram. So I'm going to ask you a question about the same key. If this system were to be implemented now, Urmas Klaas estimates that these students would be over 16,000. We don't know the exact number of new students. But what about the financial forecast next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U86	Thank you! But, unfortunately, in the meantime, I have not got any smarter than I was during the introductory speech and before answering the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U87	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U88	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, Before the last elections of the Riigikogu, the IRL signed a contract with the electorate. The contract promised that home expenses would be reduced, which has proved to be wrong. Free higher education was also allowed. Listening to your dark answers, I get the feeling that this is as little a serious promise as it is to bring down home expenses. What do you say to reduce my skepticism?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U89	Thank you. This is almost as philosophical a question as your father, who wanted me to compare European students with Estonian students. I guess it's up to every person. The way things seem to somebody depends on what hill he's standing on. I'm having a hard time explaining the world to you through my own eyes. I guess you see things differently than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U90	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U91	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I'm really sorry you guys haven't gotten any smarter in the meantime. When we process draft laws in the Riigikogu, one of the mandatory items that the rapporteur must know is possible costs. So let me ask you this. The Association of Estonian Student Unions made its proposal and sent it here. I'm sure you've met it. They argued that movement from one cent to another is not justified and that the difference should be at least EUR 10. As a rapporteur for the Commission, do you think that we should discuss this proposal, or do you stick to the draft agenda from the Bureau, on the basis of which we will make the third reading quickly on Friday?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U92	Thank you. That is because we are doing the third reading, the Commission will decide. But as far as the student proposal is concerned, as I said, when we see that it is in this law where the shoe is going to squeeze, we will be able to improve this law in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U93	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu Chair Aadu Musta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! Estonia exists because of the education of its people. Statistically, the emergence of such a small country was considered unlikely. Repeated discussions have been held on how he developed, looking for reasons and reasons. Those who long doubted that such a country could even arise, although it existed, eventually realised that there was one argument that was not taken into account. This was the 'abnormal' effort of Estonians towards education and knowledge. It seems to me that by now the vast majority of this belief in education has simply been eradicated. I dare say that, in a relative sense, universities and higher education have never been regarded as less important in Estonia than in other respects. Indeed, there were major disputes during the discussion of a specific draft law. It has to be acknowledged that the Commission has worked hard. For example, the same subject that was already discussed here by my colleague on Onion, the age to which a student could be associated with his parents, being a member of this family, to the age of 21, 24 or 26. I think that the Commission has reached some compromise by finding that this age is not 26 years old, as the Ministry had proposed. There was a long discussion about how the study grants still relate to 100% educational success. If someone is missing a point, will they lose all possible support? The question of whether the student's residence should be taken into account was discussed in depth. There were very constructive discussions in the Commission. The experience of universities is that if, for example, travel grants or something else are determined by their place of residence, everyone will sign themselves out of Tallinn or Tartu and sign themselves in somewhere very far away. So there were a number of problems. There was also a discussion about whether students themselves could start solving the issue of student support and whether student associations should not share money. In the end, the students also found that it may be dangerous to take on the task of allocating insufficient funding, because it is the people who share the money that are responsible for the lack of money. In fact, however, the main problem related to this law is as follows. This is a general problem for our Parliament and our country. There's a difference between making laws or making laws. This law is linked to several other laws on university reform. This relates to the work of Parliament as a whole. Have you noticed that every time education or research policy is discussed, everyone is in favour of talking about the importance of universities, research-intensive production and other great things? But when the budget comes to the end, they say, "Where do you take the money? There's just no money! " This is the tree of the knowledge of good and bad. We are discussing this box that has been given, and we are not really going to get to politics. To me, the Estonian Parliament is increasingly reminding of the branch office of a large global company or, rather, its accounting, where it is calculated well, the work is done well, the tables are done well, only that everything basic has been decided somewhere else. So is our education policy. It was said that the total amount of study grants would double. Awesome! At the same time, it is the effect of a beginner's stamp collector. If a beginner collects four brands and he gets four more, he doubles the number of brands. If someone already has enough stamps to be considered as a stamp collection, 10000 brands, for example, and receives 100 brands, then the percentage increase is very low. This is also the case with student benefits. How good it is to raise it when there is almost no such support right now! The fact that money is insufficient and there's nowhere to take it is also a pretty bad thing. You know, the principles of budgeting that we're talking about here were last talked about in the 19th century. Then it was discussed that four manors were given to the University of Tartu, he could get them for himself and see how he could handle them. It's not like that these days. It is not credible for people in the coalition to say, 'Do you want to take money from pensioners or? Do you want to take money from the saviors? " In today's world, those who make practical decisions do not simply take from one box to another, but the budget is shaped through priorities. At times, very small percentages are taken from here and there, but these are large sums of money. This is the story of today's budget. Human capacity is the greatest national wealth. Of course, we have had positive efforts here. I admire our Minister for Education and Science, even in the sense that, given the current government, it is a big deal to double. But we need to look to the future and think about what happens next. There are major problems with funding universities. As a university professor, I dare say that we rely very much on euro money at all times. As far as scientific money is concerned, we have already decided something here, but the bulk of the money comes from somewhere else. If you think it doesn't involve any suggestions for using it, you're wrong. The risk of provincialisation is increasing. Another thing that relates to universities and education is what Priit Sibula and I had to talk about. I have to answer that question myself now. Compared to other developed European countries, the economic situation of our students after the adoption of this law is still weak. The run-off of young people is growing, and it already has a threatening scale. Not only do you go to school, you go to work. The worst-case scenario predicts that perhaps there will be up to 850000 people in Estonia in 2020. It is no longer a country-specific population; instead of a country, it is a province. Education also needs to remain at the same level as others. In education, if you stand still or almost still, the earth will rotate so fast that you will become more and more behind others. We have this threat. This means that it is wrong to simply value education and higher education in general; it simply requires more money. If we lose our belief in education, which is disproportionate to other countries, then we, as a small country, will simply not survive. We're in the province. It's nice to have foreign students. But do we really want what a Swedish journalist or political scientist predicted three weeks ago? That opinion went through our newspapers, too. He thought that if this were to happen, in 50 years' time, Estonia would be an average wealthy English province in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U95	Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable students! The views of the Social Democratic Party on need-based education support remain the same. We presented them in the spring, introducing our draft to the Riigikogu, which was essentially rejected by the government coalition without debate. We believe that the draft proposed by the government, which provides for a EUR 135 grant for students who should be dependent on their parents until the age of 26, with a household income not exceeding EUR 280 per person and requiring full completion of the curriculum, does not guarantee free higher education but, on the contrary, makes higher education very difficult for children of less-insured families. We are confident that in a few years' time, we will see that the opinion of Minister Aaviksoo, published in Sirp's newspaper, according to which the draft law on study grants and student loans transferred to the Riigikogu allows all students to devote themselves to full-time studies, regardless of the family's income, is inadequate to say the least. Once again, we stress that in Scandinavian countries, where there is really free higher education, the state's funding for higher education is worth 17 to 35% of the funding for education grants. We have a request from Minister Aaviksoo to increase this share from the current 5% to 9% by 2015, which alone shows that free higher education was only and will remain an IRL electoral lecture. The Social Democratic Party has proposed, in the course of the 2013 state budget procedure, to double the funding allocated to needs-based learning support. This proposal was rejected by the government coalition, which clearly shows that higher education is not a government priority. With regard specifically to draft 236, I am pleased to note that the Committee on Culture did indeed have a substantive discussion of the draft and a debate based on the desire to improve it. For this, I sincerely thank the chairman of the committee, Urmas Klaas. On several points, the bill has improved a lot. In particular, this decision shows that the education allowance is not included in the family income for the purposes of calculating income support. In this sense, the draft initially submitted was not to support students in need of student support, but rather to taunt them. Another important point is the reduction of the age of the so-called family relationship from 26 to 24 years of age, as envisaged by the proposal of the Association of Estonian Student Unions, which would actually link the age taken from the ceiling to the age prescribed by law in the case of a survivor's pension. The third change under the consensus was the offer, rather than a single €135 grant, of a 'grade', which would amount to €75, €135 and €220, depending on the student's family's "average income'. However, it seems to me that we rushed somewhat in making this decision, because the result is that more than half of those who are supposed to be entitled to support will receive EUR 75 instead of EUR 135. As a result, there will also be inequality, as for example, a student with EUR 270 'family allowance' could count on EUR 345 together with the student allowance, but only EUR 220 without any income. The Student Association proposed a differentiation of allowances to ensure that each person in need, together with the family allowance, would still receive EUR 280. To prove this, I would like to read to you in advance about the appeal of the Student Association to Parliament after the debate at second reading of the draft in the Committee on Culture had ended: 'Firstly, the application of the three rates of support as a step may not change the inequality in the financial situation of students enough to enable them to actually devote themselves to studies. We would like the Riigikogu to be proposed on the basis of steps of ten euros and not just three steps. This would ensure fair and needs-based support for those who need it. The offer currently on the table, in which less support can be obtained with the difference of one cent, is not a sufficient guarantee for students in need of support. The differences between levels of support are too large and the transition from one level of income to another is reflected in the drastic decline in support, which is not in line with the legal objective of ensuring students have equal opportunities to devote themselves to their studies. In our opinion, setting and paying a grant of ten euros with precision does not make the system much more bureaucratic and costly. From the perspective of the student, this type of support, as precise as possible, is once again more clearly linked to its economic situation and the need for support. ' The Social Democratic Party Group supports the proposal of the Estonian Student Association and, in this context, proposes to interrupt the second reading of Bill 236 so that we can introduce a larger and more needs-based differentiation of grants into the draft, which would not change the overall budget amount. Indeed, there was no mention in the Commission of the problem that Kadri Simson raised that if a student receives a scholarship, where it is supposed to belong. It gets pretty weird when a student gets a scholarship for particularly good learning outcomes, but is punished by withdrawing support for it. The law should also state that this will not happen. Finally, I will specify the number that was mentioned here, how many students would receive support. There is no need to be a witch, Nastya, just EUR 3.6 million, planned for next year, divided by 540. We are talking about four months and, as we know, we are only talking about the first semester and only those students who go to university. For them, success in learning is not important either, as those who meet the requirements will receive support. For some reason, the Ministry of Education is consistently of the opinion that 37% of students meet the requirements. So this number should be 6290 if you divide it exactly. Once again, when the press began to say that 16,000 students were going to receive support, the explanatory statement had been misunderstood. However, an exact number could go into the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U97	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U98	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I probably don't have to explain in this hall who said all the time and what happened: 'By the way, I think Carthage must be destroyed. " It has simply become a symbol of the subject that we should keep talking about. Unfortunately, this is our demographic situation. Estonia has a future only if children study in schools and young people study in higher education institutions. Sadly, though, life reveals something else. For some personal reasons, I feel this situation. I've got this class that graduated ten years ago, it was 2002. Everyone who graduated from this class received a higher education. Only of the 27 people only 7 studied in Estonia, while 20 went abroad. Of course, most of them will never come back here. It's all going on and on. If you look at statistics, the only smart thing to say about the data that is on our website at Statistics Estonia is the proportion of students entering higher education institutions and how much they graduate. An average of 18,000 young people have joined universities for a total of ten years, but 12,000 have graduated. That means 600 young people are missing somewhere in the meantime. The Minister once tried to explain to us in the group that they actually simply interrupt their studies, after studying further, etc. But if you look at ten years, it turns out that's not the case. Those kids really are missing somewhere. Of course, one of the reasons why young people are unable to complete higher education is their poor economic situation. In this Chamber, we all use the templates we have acquired on the committees, whatever it takes. I stand quite far from the work of the Committee on Culture right now. I'm a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. That is why I am interested in these questions, which are usually raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So, for example, every time we start discussing any draft within the Commission, every time we deal with a bill or amendment tabled by an opposition party, we are being asked with absolute precision, we can say that an analysis, a calculation, etc., with the precision of the euro. That's why I asked my questions. In his speech, Mr Allik replied that about 30% of students would receive needs-based student support. The only reason I can justify this is that just as many students, or a third, will fall out, they won't graduate. But I'd still like to see the analysis. I would remind you that we have been in the next situation twice only during this session. A very figurative case was when we were talking about land tax. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U99	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U100	That is still very clear in mind. Then it turned out that the land tax exemption law had been done on the knee, with grammatical errors, which I particularly liked, had not carried out any analysis, not any preparatory work, there was no single database. Because of all this haltura, the people of my generation know what this is about to be suffered by local governments. It is now the same model again; it is a draft law that has not been properly analysed. Well, I see a problem here that this serious work has not been done. That's one side of it. Second. This law, of course, needs to be passed. But when will the majority of this hall begin to realize that every time it comes to a certain social group, it is not government officials that need to be listened to, not those people who are very far away from the people now, full of arrogance, as we have heard recently, but that it is necessary to listen and take note of what the people to whom this law is intended say? If we are interested in ensuring that the Estonian state lasts, that young people study here in Estonia and stay here to work, then of course we should listen to what students and their associations say. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will adopt this law as a matter of urgency. But if it's possible to improve this law, it doesn't matter if we sit here on Friday, Saturday or Sunday and whether it's at 10:00 in the morning or 10:00 in the evening. It is simply necessary to make the law so that it satisfies those for whom it must work in the future. We hope that the coalition will listen to the wishes of the students and the messages from the opposition parties, and we will make a law that will not need to be amended ten times quickly, as some laws have happened here, but we will still adopt a proper document. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U101	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U102	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you patiently in this Chamber? As the mother of three students, I support the idea of this bill. But, unfortunately, not yet the draft itself, because, as was clear from the speeches and also clear from the presentation, it seems to be somewhat crude and at times illogical. Especially when it comes to real life and other laws. I'll start with the law, in the legal sense. Firstly, the formulas on the basis of which this need-based education allowance is distributed remain incomprehensible. For example, income support is distributed in Estonia based on the fact that the first member of the family must retain 76 euros after the utility bills are paid and 67 euros for the next family members. That's one formula. So-called "need-based child support" (this name may change, but we are used to calling it that way, so let it stay) is paid on the basis of relative poverty rates. Here's another formula. The first family member must receive EUR 280 and the next family members EUR 140 if they are older than 14 years, which means that it is like this student. Those younger than 14 years, or children, should receive around 80 euros. This is a measure of relative poverty, which once again exists in our laws. We are now bringing in a dimension such as need-based learning allowance, with a student's share of the family's income of 280 euros, which is in itself a great thing. But when we look at the laws as a whole, it seems a little bit over the top because there are very different approaches and formulas. This reminds me of the need-based child support, and of this law at all, where there is such an absurd situation where the same child benefit is part of it, but the other part is not covered by income, and it is one grant. There's obviously a very raw place here. One more thing I did not understand during this debate, although I asked the rapporteur twice. I'm sorry, but I really didn't get it! I also asked my colleagues, they shook shoulders too. You claimed that the student was a member of a family until the age of 24 with his mother, father, siblings, brothers, etc. As a parent, he's a family to himself. But this older student, who is a private family, I couldn't find in the bill, as well as getting some kind of support. So with age, there's a misunderstanding here, whether the waitress hasn't really gotten into it, or whether this bill hasn't been properly written. That's another question. Another issue raised by Mr Simson rightly and highlighted by Mr Allik: the scholarship paid for the success of studies is now an income. It kills at source the motivation to learn well. If you want to receive needs-based education support, you do not have the point of trying and studying because the scholarship eats this support. That's very stupid of itself. The last straw, when we look at it on the legal side, is that the potential costs have not been clarified in the meantime, although this possibility has been opened up between discussions. So much for legal. Then I'll talk about the real life. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U103	I understand that at this point perhaps the logic that we, unfortunately, rely on here in the Riigikogu too often is better than an egg than an empty shell. However, I am forced to remember the time when a large proportion of the current members of the Riigikogu studied at the university, that was the Soviet time. Not because I'm a big fan of this time, but because I remember very clearly when Minister Aaviksoo was talking about how nice it was to learn and to be able to work, and a young person will find some sort of solution. Mr. Aaviksoo and I studied in the same town. He studied there a little earlier than I did, but I also remember very well that it was very easy to find a job in Tartu. You could go to the brewery at 6:00 in the morning, work till 10:00, get your seven rubles, and it was okay. Or collages and market spores. It was all there, but it's not right now. There are no jobs where a student can earn some more money. If you want to live, not even with dignity, but just live, if you want to pay for a dormitory, even if the rent of a dormitory kills you, it's actually as big as the need-based tuition allowance, then you just can't connect these things. That's not possible. If the Minister of Education and Science is reminiscent of old times and says it's possible, I don't know where in the world he lives. It is somehow very sad that this bill that we are dealing with here does not solve real problems. The idea is good and great, but the result is, as Chernomerdin would say, that we wanted better, but it turned out as usual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U104	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U105	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U106	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Good students who listen so thoroughly to the bill that concerns you! First of all, let us look back at how we have had our student benefits in recent years. There have been several drafts on this subject. In the last ten years, there have been so many in the hall that it is not possible to count them on the fingers of two hands. The aim of all of these has been quite similar to what we are discussing today: how to give every young person who is capable enough the opportunity to study, receive higher education and this in the Republic of Estonia. When we look at the fate of the drafts on education grants, we see that almost everyone has ended quite sadly. They have either been reworded, modified, repeatedly withdrawn at source, or have at one point been reworded in such a way that their original point has been lost. This time we have come to a second reading. The Bureau's proposal is to reach a third reading on an accelerated basis. So maybe this time we'll adopt this bill as a law. However, the answer to a few questions from the Committee on Culture is that don't worry, we come back to it, we can change it, we can complement it, gives us a clear message that if, after four months of implementation, it comes out (after all, in 2013 it will only be applied for a short period of time and even for first-year students), that it is too burdensome for the state budget or that there is not so much resources, then it can be adjusted somewhere, removed from some of the three stages, or reworded to someone who is still receiving this support. It should be mentioned that this amendment, which was agreed in the Committee on Culture and which was supported by the government after it was astonished, is that student needs-based learning support is not included in the income support calculation. Otherwise, the situation would be that a young person who is so good that, despite the difficult conditions of his family, he or she can reach higher education must choose whether his or her family will continue to receive income support and whether his or her brothers and sisters will survive if he or she is studying in Tartu or Tallinn, for example. That would certainly not be fair. It is not certain how this went through in the Government of the Republic, whether Jürgen Ligi was out of the room at that time or whether the vote was otherwise held, but in any case, it is a pleasure to note that at least the grants for studies were not cancelled. I'm sorry about my skepticism, but I've been exposed to student grants many times before. I have dealt with quite a number of drafts on this subject in this Chamber, and I have also launched several drafts. Often, in the end, the excuse has been that there is no money, and that is why such an ambitious draft is not appropriate. Since the necessity-based teaching allowance logic is that all young people who comply with a certain framework will also receive this support, i.e. if these young people have a high unemployment rate for one or another sad reason, ongoing crises, redundancies or regional mismatches more than expected, these allowances should be provided with additional resources, as the rapporteur said, from reserves or elsewhere. However, life has often shown that it is easier to come to the Riigikogu, make minor changes and actually pull together among the beneficiaries. When looking at the writing of Urmas Klaas in Postimees yesterday, he stressed that it is estimated that there is currently a need-based system of study grants for 16540 people. The very first important proposal, which is actually the basis of all the necessity-based learning support logic, and which is certainly being voted on here today, is that student grants should apply not only to students who are just entering higher education but also to students who are already studying. See all analyses carried out by the Student Association and Research Institutions, including the Ministry of Education with the Student Association. They show that in a situation where unemployment is so high and so many social problems, only a very small percentage of students can fully commit to their studies. Over 80% of students are forced to work full-time and, unfortunately, not in professional employment. The goal is only to cover life's costs, and studies have often remained in second place. I myself have given lectures for quite many years, and I must say that it is very common for a student to apologise for having to postpone the exam because it is either the deadline for the accounts or the time for the annual reports. I believe that almost all the lecturers in this Chamber who have encountered it know that these students will be met. In Estonian society it is common for young people to work. Does the Need-Based Study Allowance Act bring us closer to the goal that students can actually devote themselves to studies? Given the amounts foreseen, I'm afraid I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U107	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the draft 236 amendments. A total of 15 amendments to the draft have been received. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that the proposal should be taken into account in substance. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U108	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U109	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before this very important vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have come to the vote on the amendments. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission has taken the proposal into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 25 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 2: Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U111	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask for a second amendment to be voted and a ten-minute break for this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U112	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The commission proposes that the proposal No 2 be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 26 members of the Riigikogu), 8 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 3 Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U114	Nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U115	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the third amendment, and before the vote, I would like a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that proposal No 3 should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal has therefore been supported. Amendment 4. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U117	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U118	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the fourth amendment, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 4, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that proposal No 4 should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 25 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 5 Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U120	Nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U121	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the fifth amendment, and before that I would like a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to disregard proposal No 5. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 24 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 6 Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U123	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U124	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the sixth amendment, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to disregard proposal No 6. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 24 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 7. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U126	Nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U127	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the seventh amendment, and before that I would like a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 7, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that proposal No 7 should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 8. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U129	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U130	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would ask for the eighth amendment to be voted on, and before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U131	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 8, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The proposal of the lead committee is to disregard proposal No 8. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 22 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 9. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U132	Nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U133	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would ask for the ninth amendment to be voted, and before that, I would like to ask for a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to disregard proposal No 9. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu adopted the following opinion by 24 votes to 24, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 10. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U135	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the tenth amendment, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U136	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 10 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that proposal No 10 should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 11. Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U138	Mr President of the Riigikogu. I would like to vote on Amendment 11, and before that I would like a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U139	Nine minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U140	At this solemn moment, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to disregard proposal No 11. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 30 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 12. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U141	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U142	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 12, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The proposal of the lead committee is to take full account of Amendment 12. Please take a stand and vote. There were 32 members of the Riigikogu with 8 abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 13. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U144	Thank you. I would like to vote on this amendment, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U145	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 13 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the commission is to take full account of Amendment 13. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 14. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U147	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U148	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 14 by Mr Allik. The proposal of the commission is to disregard Amendment 14. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 30 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 15. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U150	Thank you, Madam President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U151	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 15, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The proposal of the commission of directors is to take full account of Amendment 15. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. We have examined all the amendments. The Board of the Riigikogu has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 236. We have to vote through this. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U153	Thank you, Madam President. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party requests a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U154	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U155	Dear Riigikogu, good morning to all those who have not yet seen. I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of bill 236. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu, 42 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The item is closed and the second reading of bill 236 is also complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Palling, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U157	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. The first reading of Bill 310 amending the Environmental Charges Act was completed on 30 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10.30 a.m. on 3 December. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. Technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. At the meeting of 22 November, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the bill 310 be completed and that when the second reading of the draft is completed, the draft be sent to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U158	Thank you very much, Mr Palling. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U159	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you specify what we understand today under a landmark of nationwide importance, and what gives rise to such a name? Where does national importance begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U160	No, you don't. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U161	This has nothing to do with the debate that took place in the Commission. In terms of time savings, I don't think you have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Today is the 6th of December, but the draft law we are debating is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. The proposed amendment will affect the budgets of local authorities for the coming year. Do you know when local authorities were informed of this change? Do you think this time has been enough for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U163	Thank you. This bill was actually born on the initiative of the local authorities concerned by this issue. If you, a national envoy elected from Ida-Viru County, do not think that this bill is necessary, then you can explain it freely to the municipality of Maidla, for example. In fact, this bill was born, I repeat once again, mainly on the initiative of the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U164	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The amendment to the Environmental Charges Act entails the need for development work in the environmental permit information system. At present, the information system provides for the allocation of the fee for the special water usage right in a way that does not take into account either the water use or the type of deposit. The information system is designed to develop up to EUR 5000. What stage are these developments in, and are there any hope that they will be completed at the right time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U166	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This is indeed a very good question. This explanation, I admit, I had a bit of a messy response from this Riigikogu board last time. Let me get this straight. In the information system, the following work is needed: change the local government's share and create a mine-water record of nationwide importance. It is therefore necessary to make two minor changes to the information system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U167	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the result of the main activity of the municipality of Mäetaguse will be reduced more than twice as compared to the present one by 2017, when the compensatory period ends. This is quite a reduction that affects the rural municipality's budget. You said earlier that this bill had been the initiative of the rural municipalities of Ida-Viru County. The question still arises as to whether such a step has been coordinated with the leaders of the rural municipality beyond the mountain. What was their opinion, supportive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U169	Yes, their opinion was supportive because it is more honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U170	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U171	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good colleague! According to the current principle, 50% of the special water charge is received by local authorities. The draft will only affect the water pumped out of the mines, for which 25% of the fee will be received by local authorities. This surplus will be paid into the state budget. My question specifically concerns this pumping-out water. As we know, companies are now also obliged to pay for pumping rainwater out of their careers. How is the payment for pumping out rainwater regulated? How is this sharing going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U172	I didn't quite understand the question. When water is pumped out of the quarry, no one will really analyze what water it is. With regard to the distribution of the fee, 25% also receives environmental charges for oil shale mining, for example, in the local government's budget. It's exactly the same. In fact, this makes the bill's collection of all the fees even: 25% goes directly to the local government's budget, while the remainder is obtained if necessary from the Equalisation Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U173	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U174	I have a question about the previous issue. The explanatory memorandum also states that it makes sense that municipalities involved in mining activities can spend more money for their residents because there is more revenue there. At the same time, mining has a negative impact on the environment and on the rural municipality's activities. Have the advantages and disadvantages been taken together as to what the benefits will ultimately be? Are the pros still weighing up the cons?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U175	The logic of setting environmental charges is that the charge for mineral extraction or the specific use of water should return to the environment. In the principle, from the state's point of view, that's the way it is. Local authorities in whose territory there is a mineral land of national importance are known to suffer to some extent from mining-related activities. Whether it's oil shale or something else, it's a burden on the environment. Environmental charges must go back to the environment, at least they should, so the legislators have foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U176	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As I understand from your speech, all the municipalities in Ida-Virumaa feel that this fee may be reduced. Or are there exceptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U178	As far as I know, it has been a collective decision, and not only. It has also been an initiative of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U179	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U180	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. Much has been said in the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal that environmental charges are a very important source of income for municipalities with large mines and careers, but the problem is instability and unpredictable decisions by extractors make it difficult to predict receipts. How did this bill start? Is this bill rather an initiative of the Ministry of Finance or an initiative of municipalities whose income is unstable due to mining fees? What was the beginning of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U181	Thank you, very honored questioner. As the former head of one of the great municipalities of Ida-Viru County, you are certainly well aware of this situation. As you mentioned in your question, this bill started with the initiative of the local authorities in Ida-Viru County. Here I bring to Maidla, for example, whose territory closed Aid's career. If we do not adopt this law, under the current system, environmental charges will not be collected by the municipality, but this very good bill will continue to give them the mining right fee until 2017 every year, decreasing by a certain percentage from the 2011 level, and they will also receive the mining right fee from the Equalisation Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U182	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The draft law amends the procedure for the collection of environmental charges. The third paragraph of the explanatory memorandum refers to the opening of the New Kiviõli mine and the creation of 700-900 jobs. Job creation is very positive. But what does this have to do with this bill that only talks about environmental charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U184	I can't tell you why it's been brought out there and why you're asking me about it. But if a mine is opened where oil shale is mined and the bill also deals with the payment of oil shale mining rights, then the example of the opening of this mine as one of the largest mines here is quite relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U185	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U186	My question is motivated by the first reading and relates to your answers to the questions of Inara Luigas. He asked a question, which is why this draft law, which is directly linked to the draft state budget law, has not been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am asking because you had two answers on this subject, which were diametrically opposite. On the one hand, you said it didn't concern it, but on the other, you said it was the way it came from it. It's been a while now. Can you state with one sentence why the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not discussed a draft law that is directly related to the draft state budget law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U187	Thank you, very honored questioner. I respect your wishes and answer with one sentence: it was the decision of the Riigikogu Board that this draft law has been processed and is still being dealt with by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U188	Please, Mr Lenk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U189	I want to ask you a question to go on. You responded very well that environmental charges should be used by the municipality to improve damage to nature. Has there been any analysis of whether the municipality is trying to use this income from environmental charges for anything else, or is all this money really going for the restoration of nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U190	I said that this is a general approach to setting environmental charges, and I personally very much support this approach. However, I have not read such an analysis, which would have dealt very thoroughly with whether every single euro collected as a tax will actually return to the environment. That's a good question. It should be investigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U191	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U192	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You said that these municipalities would start to get lost income in the future through the Equalisation Fund. The Equalisation Fund formula is valid, as far as I know, all over Estonia and this formula is the same. When the tax exemption for homeland was under discussion yesterday, the waitress said that 15 or 14 municipalities were deprived of revenue because the formula did not foresee the exemption. Can't the same thing happen here that these local governments can't actually get that money back?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U193	When I look at the bill, I dare say that there will be no such problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U194	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U195	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As regards the collection of environmental charges to municipalities, they are not obliged to clean up land associated with mining activities. How much do municipalities spend on remediation of damaged land in mining areas, for example, per year or over several years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U196	This question does not concern the draft procedure, nor does it concern the very short debate that took place in the Commission between the first and second readings. But in answer to your very good question, I can give an example of the rowing channel that is built on the territory of Maidla rural municipality, which is built in the old mine and which is directly used by Estonia's good athletes. I think that these are the investments that are being made for the tax resources received by the local authorities. I can't give you any more big examples. This canal of rowing must be one of the biggest investments, at least lately.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U197	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U198	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The draft provides for a reduction in the costs of mining from the municipalities in which the mines are located. This money is allowed to be distributed back to local governments through the Equalisation Fund. Is this promise regulated by law or by any law at all? I would also like to mention specific paragraphs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U199	Yeah, it's regulated by the same bill we're working on right now. This is bill 310 of the Environmental Charges Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U200	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U201	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! How can possible fraud be ruled out? For example, someone may start putting some old career on the edge of a gravel career, and afterwards he says it's production.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U202	The gravel careers do not concern the substance of the bill. This bill does not deal with gravel careers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U203	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U204	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There's no such paragraph here. That's why I'm asking you to name this section number.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U205	I, on the other hand, argue that this bill is the basis on which the rules of the game you have asked for will be established.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U206	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U207	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have noticed that you have answered quite a number of questions that this is a good question and that this subject should be examined. This reminded me that you admitted that you also failed to answer some questions at first reading and that you have now examined these issues. I just heard one such answer to Mikhail Stalnukhin. But do you want to clarify other issues that were confused at first reading of the draft? I understand you've found answers to these questions later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U208	Yes, indeed, good Kadri! There were some questions that I may not have answered specifically at first reading. There were three of them. Two of these have now been answered. One concerned the information system, the other concerned why this draft does not have to be dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It must be acknowledged that the third question whether changes to the mining right fee were agreed with the municipalities of Ida-Viru has also been answered specifically. I also quote from the letter from the initiator of the draft: 'The agreement is based on the proposal of the municipalities of Ida-Viru. It was fixed as a negotiation agreement. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U209	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the chairman's break until 10:00. We will continue this debate after 10 o'clock when we have re-implemented the sitting. Closure of the sitting at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U210	Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, let us begin Question Time and first conduct a verification of presence. 37 delegates have been registered, 64 are missing. We will attend today's Question Hour with the following members of the government: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. We'll start according to the order you know. I say right from the start that, in order for all the questioners to have answers to their questions, it is possible for each of the respondents to submit two questions on the spot in addition to the questions they have registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U211	Please, let's begin! First of all, Peter Võsa will ask the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U212	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. The Integration and Migration Foundation in your area of government Our People have received negative attention in connection with the inefficient distribution of grants. More than 77000 euros have been allocated from the Ministry of Culture's budget for the production of "Knowledge and Unknown Estonia" portrait films by reform parties. You can't waste that kind of money. So far, public libraries have received a list of mandatory fiction from the Ministry of Culture. Could cinemas continue to be included in the list of mandatory fine films that could include these portrait films from the Reform Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U213	Thank you. What an interesting idea! We'll have to consider it. I am afraid, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, that you are a little one-sidedly informed about this whole story. This money, which was distributed for a project such as 'Common Media Field and Equal Treatment', yes, formally these amounts are in the Ministry of Culture's budget, but they have been transferred to the MISA, or Foundation of Our People. This money actually comes from a European Union fund aimed at integrating former third-country residents and non-citizens into Estonian society. These amounts, even if you would very much like, are not used for purposes other than the implementation of such media projects. But your proposal to give the cinemas a list of mandatory movies we will definitely discuss. After all, you made it as a member of the Riigikogu at the Riigikogu sitting, and we will consider it. If this is what the legislator wants, then we need to consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U214	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U215	I'm glad to hear that Ojuland is integrated! But since 2011, the Chairman of the Management Board of MISA is a former member of the Riigikogu, Tatjana Muravjova, member of the Reform Party, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Laine Randjärv, member of the Reform Party, and Paul-Eerik Rummo is also a member of the Supervisory Board. The administrative director of this foundation is Ene Kaups, member of the Reform Party. Do you think that the EUR 77000 allocated from the Ministry of Culture's budget for the film production of reform parties was sufficient or that it is well known that political propaganda requires large sums of money, perhaps there was little money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U216	In answer to the previous question, you obviously did not notice the answer, I explained that the purpose of this money is, in fact, prescribed by the relevant funds of the European Union. There is little or much of this, depending on the budget of the European Union, and certainly also on the decisions of our government, confirmed by the Riigikogu, on how the European Social Fund funds are distributed at the final stage. As regards the first half of your question, which did not have any connection with the direct question, yes, your information on who is the Chairman of the Foundation's Board and who is the Chairman of the Board is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U217	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U218	I understand that this money is only meant to produce movies, but I would still like to ask you this. One member of the Riigikogu of the IRL has claimed that such films are about reaching the principles of North Korean film art in Estonia. Does the Minister of Culture agree with the position of his government partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U219	Thank you very much. I have to say, I'm not very familiar with North Korean film art, maybe the questioner is. But seriously, I repeat once again: this is a fund aimed at supporting a wide range of integration projects. One project is 'Common Media Field and Equal Treatment'. A total of 18 projects were received for this completely open competition, of which six were selected, which received funding. Whether or not a successful project can be assessed after 27 January 2013 if the beneficiary has to submit a report on the use of the grant to both Ministry of Culture and MISA and put all products on the table. We have, in principle, decided that this evaluation will be extremely transparent. We are also going to ask for the remarkable critics who have claimed that things have not been well done there. However, after the launch of the competition for this project, a contract has been concluded with a private producer and there are very clear points in that contract. The agreement is, of course, bilateral, and I do not see any reason to interrupt it at this point. So let's wait until the deadline for the report and then assess whether the produced films are relevant, whether they correspond to North Korean film art level, New Zealand film art level or film art level in another country. That will be revealed in February.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U220	Thank you. And now two questions registered on the spot. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U221	Mr. Minister! Since the money was still allocated from your Ministry of Administration, I think and somewhere I also read that you have, however, been interested in the use of this money. You and Mrs. Randjärv have probably been watching these movies, they've been hanging on social media. When you took a look at the films, it is not hard to judge, they are at the traditional level of North Korea or the US or Estonian film art. I have a specific question: do you think that this money has been spent wisely when we have been shown Mrs Ojuland in the air and underground?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U222	You have a bit of a strange idea of how the European Union's money for integration is being used. What I think of one result or another doesn't really matter. So let's wait for the report to be received along with all these films. In order to evaluate this report, MISA will certainly bring together a very broad Commission, where everyone will be able to speak. I am not part of this committee and leave my subjective assessments of one or the other media product entirely to myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U223	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U224	Honourable Minister of Culture! It was nice to hear that, on the basis of equal treatment, as you stated, it was the reform party that was chosen to be the heroes of the portrait films. I ask: what kind of portraits, or even worthy films of reform parties, are the Ministry of Culture planning to support through MISA in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U225	Unlike those in the Central Party, reform parties receive the attention of media organisations, which I am very pleased about as a member of the political party. Come on, come on, come on, come However, neither the terms of this competition nor the applications contained a single word about who was filmed, what questions would be asked. A general description of the media project was provided and this general description was accepted by the Commission. What is issued by the media manufacturer of the product is, according to Estonian law, his freedom. There is no censorship in Estonia and at least our government does not intend to introduce it. If you wish to introduce censorship in Estonia, please submit a proposal to amend the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U226	Thank you. There is currently one issue registered on the spot on this subject and I will give Mr Ossinovski the opportunity to present it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U227	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Culture, You claimed that all this money came from the European Union fund. As far as I know, as the description of the project states, 25% of the money came from our taxpayer's pocket. And even if 75% of the money came from the pocket of the taxpayer in the European Union, neither should this money be misused with any lighter hands than our own taxpayers' money. Here's my question. In your opinion, the whole responsibility for making these reformist films lies with the film producer. How likely do you think that this European Union fund will recover all this misappropriated amount from Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U228	All European Union funds are co-financing by Estonia for the amounts as a whole, not for a specific matter. In this sense, you are right, indeed, to apply the self-financing obligation. What is the possibility that money will be recovered? This depends, in particular, on the assessment made by MISA of the performance of this contract. I said that after the report was submitted, the contract was signed on 27 January. Consequently, this process will take place in February. Welcome to your appreciation, Evgeny! Let's call it! I can present an invitation here and now. If that committee concludes that the contract is not fulfilled under the conditions, of course MISA is entitled and obliged to recover those amounts from the producer. Makes perfect sense! I doubt that the European Union will recover money, because there are no quality criteria that provide the basis for this. But now, if you go into a little discussion with me, I am not thrilled at the existence of the projects that the European Union has invented, and I am thinking of media projects for integration. Such distributions of money are always accompanied by a great deal of trouble and confusion. For example, there is a project such as 'Tonight live on the air', which is similarly financed from MISA resources and where you have the honour to participate, right, as well as interviewed. All these things have to do with creating tensions and, in my opinion, not very well with freedom of the media. However, as the European Union has taken such a position, we regretably have to live with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U229	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U230	Next, I will give the floor to my colleague Marianne Mikko, who has a question for Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister of Defence! As we know, the 2013 Draft Budget gives the Ministry of Defence a priority in terms of improving the living conditions of conscripts. EUR 9 million will be allocated for this purpose. I am thinking here of the construction of modern and standard barracks that guarantee the living conditions of all conscripts. The National Defence Commission has visited the Watch Battalion and the Navy, where the barracks are extremely crowded with conscripts. When will more barracks be created, and what is the stage of preparation, such as planning, building permits, public procurement of construction activities? As construction takes time, I also ask what date in 2013 and where new barracks have been built.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U232	Honourable questioner! This is a priority for the Ministry and we want to move forward with this work without stretching. We are planning to build new types of barracks to ensure a comprehensive solution: one building would have housing, classrooms, warehouses and weapons together. A new type of barracks would be practical and the living environment would meet the requirements that we consider reasonable for conscripts. The final date for all conscripts is set in such a way that modern living conditions should be guaranteed in 2014 for all conscripts. We want to move forward in this venture without stretching. The basis for setting the target is the forecast that the number of conscripts will be between 3200 and 3300 over the next ten years. Indeed, as you said, the worst living conditions currently exist for conscripts in Tallinn's training centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U233	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U234	Mr. Secretary of Defense! In August, you appreciated the living conditions of the soldiers of Tallinn's training centres with the words'sold-out Russian-time situation' and 'adjusted Russian-time situation'. You have said in this very hall that the buildings of the logistics battalion on Marja Street and the guard battalion on the Rahumägi road are in very bad condition, have been depreciated and could actually be demolished. You have just again expressed your hope that all young people entering military service in the autumn of 2014 will have proper barracks, which will mean the creation of almost 1,200 new barracks. Once again, when exactly will the state of the armed forces end in the time of the perfected and patched Russian era?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U235	As far as the content of military service and personal equipment are concerned, it is certainly modern. However, there are serious shortcomings in living conditions, as I have repeatedly admitted. My answer is that the ultimate goal set by the Ministry is that young people who go to military service in autumn 2014 live in normal conditions. In practice, these same Tallinn training centres are in the worst circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U236	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U237	The subject is also directly covered by the new Defence Service Act, which will enter into force. It is also possible to join in the service of service by volunteers of female Estonian citizens. If there are no housing conditions and barracks, how can a woman join the Navy, for example? If you ask more broadly, is the armed forces ready to accept female conscripts? In particular, I am thinking of accommodation and living conditions, although it is also important to have clothing and footwear. Has the Ministry of Defence made any predictions as to the number of female conscripts at all? Its prediction is within the competence of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U238	Thank you. Indeed, according to the new Defence Service Act, which will enter into force on April 1, next year, it will also be possible, on a voluntary basis, to enlist female conscripts. Next year, we will consider 60 of the tenderest conscripts of the sex. As regards the possibilities for women not to experience any inconvenience during military service, I can assure you that my clear message to the Defence Forces has been that the Estonian Defence Forces must be prepared to receive and treat female conscripts on an equal footing as other conscripts. As far as logistics and technical arrangements are concerned, the relevant conditions will certainly be ensured in such a way that situations of humiliation or confusion should not arise. This is a separate area of work that is being considered and dealt with. From this speech chair, I can invite all girls who complete general education in upper secondary school to consider military service as one of the possibilities for self-fulfilment and after military service to attend higher military school.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U239	Thank you. Two issues registered on-the-spot. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U240	Mr. Secretary of Defense! Other authorities show that centralisation is more likely to result in a loss of local organisational capacity. We can give an example of the ability of the Police and Border Guard Board to resolve the lack of district constables on the ground. In the defence system, we are now talking about losing four defence districts. Can't this process lead us to the same path? Perhaps there is a similar risk that our regional defence capabilities will deteriorate as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U241	The development of the National Defence Development Plan for the next ten years is in its final phase, and next week I will introduce it to the National Defence Committee together with the Commander of the Defence Forces, which is why I do not want to touch on the details right now. However, I would like to stress that the starting points on the basis of which the National Defence Development Plan has been developed and which have been taken into account in this project are that our real defence capabilities must increase. Our military capabilities must increase both in number and in terms of equipment. As regards the specific circumstances and the organisation of the Defence Forces, I mean both peacetime and wartime, I can assure you that there is no intention of losing circles. But there's gonna be a change. Their aim is a more effective defence, a defence that corresponds to our resources. Resource preferences are guided by the objective of ensuring a defence capability and, under limited time conditions, a rapid response capability in the event of a possible enemy's military attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U242	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U243	Good Secretary of Defense! My question largely relates to the previous question to you, and it concerns today's Postman, where there is an article entitled 'The state is severely curtailing the development plan for the Defence Forces'. To the previous question, you answered relatively through the flowers that you have not made all the decisions yet, while Postimees has quite clearly pointed out what changes to the development plan involve. My question is: how is it possible that the press will write about this, but the members of the Riigikogu cannot, as we know? Is it such a secret document that it is only open to Postman journalists or how to interpret it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U244	The fact that the press introduces different versions and takes their views out is the work of the press and I think he is independent in doing his work. As far as the National Defence Development Plan is concerned, I would like to stress that the starting point for its preparation was to map our actual situation. The government's clear course is to keep in mind that 2% of gross domestic product will be channelled to national defence costs by planning it so that our actual defence capabilities and contributions to national defence will increase, not decrease, in terms of equipment, weapons systems and personnel. The fact is that if we compare different plans, we will see that the National Defence Development Plan, which was drawn up four years ago, was based on a more optimistic pre-masuse forecast. Future forecasts on paper must inevitably be corrected, as national defence must be built up in practice, based on the financial resources that the taxpayer contributes to national defence through its representativeness. We cannot rely solely on the defence capabilities that exist on paper in the event of a military threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U245	Thank you. I will close the debate on the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U246	Let's go to question three. This is Priit Toobal's question to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. At the end of last month, you had a working visit to Ukraine at the invitation of the Minister of Culture, signing the Estonian-Ukrainian cultural cooperation programme for the years 2012 to 2016. I studied the text of the programme available on the website of the Ministry of Culture and saw that it contained a rather close plan. It was also noted that most of this program is a major festival. I wonder how many opportunities this programme gives to "local-level culture" or collectives outside the capital, for example, young people in Tartu? Or is it rather the creation of outputs for professional cultural makers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U248	Thank you for a meaningful question. The fact that agreements with foreign countries on cultural exchanges are beginning to receive a small amount of attention in Parliament is welcome. This programme, which has been concluded for 2012‐2016, is certainly more detailed than the previous one. At the same time, there is an article that states very clearly that the parties will do everything to mediate contacts between cultural makers on both sides, both in Estonia and in Ukraine. The Ministry of Culture will take care of that as soon as possible. If there are any specific proposals from local cultural collections, agents, managers, wishes to go to Ukraine to make contacts, the Ministry of Culture and the Estonian Embassy in Kiev will help to look for them. Regrettably, we do not have enough resources to keep cultural attachés in Kiev. It might be necessary, but there is a limit to the financial resources. However, Estonian diplomats, who practice politics and economic diplomacy on a daily basis, are also engaged in cultural diplomacy alongside this work. So you can definitely get contacts through them. This is also the main content of this cultural treaty. Both sides are trying to bring professionals together, and this will be followed by cooperation between them, which we will be able to support with existing funds if necessary. This does not mean that we will necessarily pay for all of it, and it is neither reasonable nor practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U249	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U250	I really think that cultural cooperation programmes and agreements between different countries are very useful. The more they reach out to the capital and major county centres, so that smaller groups can also take part in smaller places, the better. My question relates to the funding of this programme. I haven't figured out how much the state is betting on it. Do you have any information on how much the country will contribute to this cultural cooperation programme between Estonia and Ukraine until 2016 or is it a budgetary issue each year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U251	We do not have separate funds in cooperation with any country within which to operate. It all goes according to the possibilities available. As we know, there are several sources in Estonia. In addition to the "Estonian Culture in the World" programme of the Ministry of Culture, we also have the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, through which such trips are financed. The text of this programme sets out the general principles of how funding is carried out. The principle is that the sending party pays travel expenses, such as travel expenses to and from Estonia to Ukraine, as well as the salaries of cultural figures. The receiving party shall pay for accommodation, domestic transport and translation services, if necessary. This is a general principle, which does not mean that different agreements are not possible for a given project. This general cooperation has now been agreed with the Ukrainians. In our relations with other countries, too, we do not consider it necessary to make separate funds, i.e. to set specific amounts of money, which could be counterproductive in that sense, that if more can be done, the question arises whether there is no possibility of more funding. Actually, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U252	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U253	In answer to the first question, you said that the programme that ended in 2012 was far less than the new programme. I agree with that. Would you mind telling me a few words about this last program? What are its biggest winnings and what was not achieved last time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U254	Oh, it's hard to start counting like this all of a sudden! If you are really very interested in this, we can give you a summary of who went from Estonia to Ukraine during these years and who went from Ukraine to Estonia. Actually, the contacts are pretty tight, just between professionals. Libraries work closely together as well as museums and musicians. For example, in the Ukrainian Philharmonic Pillar Hall, Hortus Musicus recently appeared, celebrating the 20th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Estonia and Ukraine. When I spoke to the philharmonic people, it turned out that there have been very many Estonian interpreters in Ukraine, not in the context of an official cultural exchange. Ukraine is also interested in organising official Estonian cultural days in some way during the coming period. We'll see how this goes. There are very many contacts also at local level, I mean regions and specific Estonian collectives. To tell you the truth, we don't keep a string book where everything is written. But these cultural contacts are, in fact, much more than the ministries know. Which is very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U255	Thank you very much. Any more questions? This is not a wish, so I will stop addressing the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U256	Please, Mr Allik, a question also for Minister of Culture Rein Lang.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U257	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There is a point in the effective coalition agreement: 'We are working on the possibility of amending the Creative Act in order to solve the problem of health insurance for recognised freelance artists. ' I remember when you took office, you called it one of your priorities. I know there's been some action. Why don't you take a look at how far it's come by weighing? My question is based on genuine interest, because I have recently been approached by a number of cultural figures, but I just don't know the current state of affairs. The Committee on Culture has yet to come up with any of your proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U258	Embarrassing to admit, however, the Estonian state apparatus works consistently but in creaking. These negotiations on how to really improve the social guarantees for creators have proved surprisingly complex. Without going into the details here in the Riigikogu today, I am simply saying that the draft concerning the amendment of the Creative Act is ready for the Ministry of Culture and expects the Minister to sign it. I'm still trying to read this explanatory note with more thought. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs prepares amendments to the Social Tax Act and Health Insurance Act. But when we look at the picture as a whole, it seems to me that the logic under which people are now given health insurance based on traditional employment contracts that pay a person once a month is somewhat outdated. Perhaps we should talk about aggregated periods per year. If we could reach an agreement on this with the Ministry of Finance, I imagine that this would at least solve the health insurance problem not only for many artists but also for a very large number of people involved in science. They, too, are in a position to be paid once or twice a year according to their employment contracts, but with this they only receive health insurance for one month per year. It certainly doesn't make any sense. So I can answer you today with the work going on. Some phase in the form of a draft law is likely to go to the government's coordination circle in January at the latest. But we certainly cannot be satisfied with the current outcome, which has been achieved by the various authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U259	Thank you, Minister of Culture Rein Lang! Does the questioner have any specific questions? No questions to be specified. I will finish the discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U260	Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to ask questions from the floor to the members of the government who have come here. Please tell me who you are asking the question to first and then your question. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U261	Madam President, I would like to put a question to Minister for Culture, Rein Lang. Mr Minister, my question to some extent concerns a subject that was the first to be debated today, i.e. MISA movies, but a little from a different perspective. You said that the project from which these films were financed could produce media projects that should facilitate the integration of people from third countries. How do you think translating a cartoon such as Lotte and the Moonstone Secret into Russian could be one of those projects that could be realised? In my opinion, cartoon characters have the potential to make strong connections as a child. As far as I know, money has been requested from the MISA, but has not been received. Do you think it would be possible for this media project to translate Lotte into Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U262	I'm sorry, did I hear correctly that you said that we need to translate Lotte into Russian? The latest cartoons? Got it! As far as I know, Lotte has been translated into Russian. I think it's been subtitrated, but it's not duplicated, it's true. But this is a purely private activity. If anyone wants to subtit or duplicate a movie, it's a producer's business. We have film production on a private basis. As far as I know, no one has made such a request. As regards the specific project, which is indeed called 'Common Media Field and Equal Treatment', it involves media products at all, not films directly. As I answered Mr Ossinovski's question, all such private media support national or European Union programmes actually only cause confusion and unequal treatment. It is extremely difficult to find some golden middleway that everyone will finally be satisfied with. That is why independent committees have been set up to evaluate these projects and, after that, to review the implementation of these contracts. As we can see in the accompanying picture, they always cause passion. Luigi Pirandello, a famous Italian writer, has written a brilliant play 'As it seems to you'. In this case, the media has also done their utmost to present facts in such a way that there may be a misconception. In the case of this particular media project, which was carried out by Mr Smirnov's media company, it is not only the Reform Party that has been interviewed. Reform party members are a minority in this, but they have managed to paint another picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U263	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. The answer has been extended for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U264	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U265	Please, you can ask Arto Aas next!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U266	My question is to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Recently, European leaders, including you, gathered at the Council meeting to discuss the next budget for the European Union. What results did you get there? What news is there for Estonian farmers and what news is there about the launch of powerful new infrastructure projects in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U267	Much has been said about the Council meeting in the press, and it is probably well known that there are no concrete results. As long as the budget has not been agreed, there will be no very strong results to show. But the last offer by Herman Van Rompuy to Estonian farmers is favourable. Indeed, the level of direct payments for agriculture in the Baltic States has risen to the next level: by 2020, the last offer provides for EUR 196 per hectare. Compared to the current 117 € level, the increase is quite significant. Unfortunately, we don't know what this slope is going to look like exactly. We would like this increase to be steeper from 2014, rather than linear from the current level. Because if it's linear, our farmers will be in trouble in 2014. The volume of these direct payments is decreasing in absolute terms, as we are currently paying the top-up national supplement. Negotiations were also successful in the area of cohesion policy. We Baltic countries have been offered a higher ceiling of subsidies than the European Union average: for others 2.35%, for us 2.59% of GDP. In principle, this would amount to EUR 350 million extra money for Estonia. In the case of agricultural payments, the additional amount was EUR 90 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U268	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U269	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Good Prime Minister, there is now a huge confusion about the deadlines for the consumer to enter into a contract with the electricity producer. On the one hand, producers are talking about 10 December and, due to the panic born of it, the offices of all electricity producers are clogged. The queues are so long that the picture resembles a long-term economy during the Soviet Union. On the other hand, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications announced yesterday that in the case of Eesti Energia, this date is not 10 December, but the end of December. Here's the question: do you think it's okay that people are so confused that they have to stand in line for hours? If you don't think this is normal, then who should be responsible? Secondly, what advice do you give to these thousands of people in Estonia in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U270	I advise people not to stand in line at all, but to use the Internet. When entering the website of Eesti Energia via the Internet bank, each person entering will receive an individual offer. In my case, this offer coincided with the package I had already chosen for myself. It took me less than a minute to sign a contract. It's very important that I didn't have to go anywhere in line. This service has indeed been made very convenient. I suggest everyone use Internet mediation. I am not a very good judge of the rules of electricity sales, but I have the impression from the press that the agreement should be concluded 21 days before the date of entry into force of the agreement. The contract period usually starts at the beginning of the month and therefore it is appropriate that the agreement should enter into force on 1 January. If any of the bidders makes exceptions, the reason for the derogation is that the electricity seller is not switched. This 21-day requirement will then be reduced and, of course, it will be friendly to the consumer and, in my opinion, acceptable behaviour from the point of view of the state as a supervisor. Nor will anything happen to those who do not enter into an electricity contract because they will then be able to use the general service and make their decision later. I have the impression that in very many cases it is a matter of a few cents for different offers, not even a few euros for different offers. Don't get too panicked over these cents and stand in line for hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U271	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's still fit the answers in two minutes! Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U272	Dear Vice-Chairman, my question is to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Prime Minister, you are not only the Prime Minister's office, but also the President of the Reform Party. My question is: do you also intend to stand as the chairman of the Reform Party at the next Reform Party General Assembly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U273	Thank you for your interest. I haven't made that decision yet. I said on 23 February this year that if this coalition's willingness to cooperate should be reduced before the next elections, I will not form a new government. That is all I have said so far on this subject. I certainly have not said that I am not going to stand as a candidate in the election of the President of the Reform Party for the next period. Whether I'm running or not, I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U274	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, your question is for whom?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U275	My question, Madam President, is for the Prime Minister. Yesterday, the coalition found, by the way, either in the closet or in the sleeve, 9.5 million euros to finance various projects. Over EUR 4 million will go to finance political objects. The money has also been allocated to NGOs, which do not exist today at all. In a situation where the central government has so massively started to finance local government objects, can next year's municipal elections be considered to be even fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U276	I am convinced that the state budget is the most political decision ever made by the Riigikogu during the year. I do not agree with the argument that some budget expenditure is more political than others or that some expenditure is completely apolitical. The budget is a very political document and an apolitical budget could not be put together by an apolitical government either. It is the budget through which the government and the Riigikogu conduct their policies and every preference in the budget is certainly political preference. What has been the proposals of one, another, third or fourth political groups or MPs, what the opinion of the Finance Committee on these proposals is better known to members of the Riigikogu than to the Prime Minister. The government did its best to draft the budget. We sent our draft budget to the Riigikogu at our best, and I fully accept that the members of the Riigikogu will make this very good draft even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U277	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U278	Prime Minister! On 3 December, the International Day of People with Disabilities will be celebrated. This was also celebrated in Estonia with a major conference called '20 years in the wind of change'. In March this year, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified in the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu, while several organisations of disabled people have expressed their concern about the closure of schools for children with special needs and the transfer of pupils to regular schools. Next week, the topic of informal care will be discussed as a matter of national importance in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Will the coalition have a decision next year that could ease the situation for people with special needs? The Social Democratic Party has issued a draft on the cancellation of student loans, and I very much hope to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U279	I have been dealing with the alleged closure of schools for children with special needs very superficially. I understand that the Ministry of Education and Research denies the existence of such schemes. I don't know what these fears are about, and that's why I don't know how to comment on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U280	Thank you very much. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U281	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Good Prime Minister, of course, in two minutes it will be extremely difficult to answer Deniss Borodichi's question about the opening of the electricity market and their price packages. You gave a good answer to those who have the Internet. But I ask you: has the Ministry of the Economy managed to use the money that the government has allocated to show you how best to switch to the open market? We can see that hundreds of people are currently standing in line at the service points of Eesti Energia. What to say to those who do not have the Internet? There's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U282	However, I recommend that these people start using the Internet, because it is a technology that makes life much easier today, and the area of use of the Internet will continue to expand in the future. So it's more late than never! The Internet will help everyone. In general, however, the future behaviour of electricity consumers should depend on the size of someone's electricity bills. There are plenty of people who do not have the Internet and who pay EUR 2, 4 or 6 per month for electricity, and it certainly does not make sense for them to spend two hours standing in line to choose a suitable package. It is reasonable for these people to simply wait for the peak time for concluding contracts to pass. They are the subject of the talk that their victory or loss is measurable in cents and not in euros, and I do not believe that people are willing to stand in line for a few cents for two hours. There's no reason to panic! A small consumer may use a general service. Yes, the general service may in certain cases be more expensive than any package, but in the case of packages, we do not know which one we would win. Could we win if we took the stock market-based package, or if we chose a fixed-price package, this will become clear later. I personally trust the fixed-price packages more now, because it is likely that all those entering the market will try to minimize their profits when entering the market in order to be competitive. And they're probably more competent than any other consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U283	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for a very thorough answer. Before I give the floor to the next questioner, I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has one possibility of asking. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U284	My question is to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip regarding the state budget procedure, which, in some ways, is also based on the question that has been put and the answers given. In particular, opposition parties have also presented a number of positive proposals for changes to the state budget. Out of this large number, the central party submitted 96 proposals for second reading. Remarkably much was requested, including support for local authorities and various institutions. Yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs showed that a large number of them also found support, including the proposal to allocate additional funding to the 10 kindergartens in Narva to develop a language immersion environment. How do you feel, Prime Minister, has the opposition party correctly understood the state budget process in the Riigikogu? That is how it is that proposals are made, and if, unfortunately, these proposals had an illegal source of cover, we found legal. Are you okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U285	Well, the members of the Riigikogu know it better than I do. That is indeed the way in which proposals are made. Proposals from time to time are not in accordance with the law and cannot be taken into account, but proposals that comply with the law will be dealt with in the Commission with the utmost detail. If there is wider support for the proposal, this will also be reflected in an acceptable state budget. I do not think that the funding proposed by the opposition is less political than the funding proposed by the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U286	Thank you very much. Do colleagues have any more questions? No further questions. I'm finishing Question Time. Many thanks to all the questioners and many thanks also to the members of the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U287	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the 10th working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act, the Penal Code and the State Fees Act, initiated on 3 December, the Committee on Social Affairs; secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, initiated on 3 December, by the Committee on Culture; thirdly, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act amending § 11 of the Act on Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel, launched on 3 December, commission of the Finance Committee. The members of the Riigikogu Aadu Must, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Lauri Laasi, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobal, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toom withdrew their inquiry to Rein Lang, the Minister of Culture, presented on 14 November this year, about integration and migration in our People Foundation. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 83 delegates have been registered, 18 are missing. Let's clarify today's agenda. In the context of today's tenth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is presented by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U288	Let's move on! Yesterday, we were in the middle of a debate on the first reading of draft law amending the law on state legal aid initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. First of all, I would like to organise the register of speeches. We know the questioners who stayed in line. I believe that until the waitress comes to the chair and answers these questions, it will also be fixed in technical terms. It is certainly not necessary for Kalev Kallo, Peter Võsal and Aadu Musta to ask three times in a row. I now ask for peace and quiet so that we can go to our work! I ask the representative of the initiators of the speech chair, Yana Toomi, member of the Riigikogu, to continue to ask questions to the rapporteur. I also mention that the queue of the questioners was: Korb, Kallo, Võsa, Stalnukhin and Black. They're in the order that stayed up last night. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U289	Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about this bill, there is essentially a dispute over the language of the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U290	Please be a little quieter in the hall! Can't hear the question. Keep it down, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U291	If you don't mind, I'll say it again. In essence, there is a dispute over the language of the trial. Legal aid can also be requested by law in English. Does the Estonian judicial system also allow a trial in English? Can you tell me if there is a demand for such a service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U292	Thank you for your question. Our judicial system allows for a trial in English in the sense that, firstly, it is possible to apply for free state legal aid in English, as it is the most widely used foreign language in the European Union. Secondly, it is also possible to submit documents in English, and then it will be solved by interpreters. There is a directive like this, but I can't find it here in my papers. Oh, I did! Council Directive 2003/8/EC of the European Union, which regulates cross-border litigation, also provides that the Estonian system of justice must be able to deal with matters in English. In fact, it is also possible to do business in Russian, but unfortunately this cannot be done at first instance, where free state legal aid must be requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U293	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U294	Madam President, yesterday when the hearing was closed, I was the sixth questioner, but I am not currently among those asking for my name. Secondly, with all due respect, how can Peter Võsa be on the list of questioners twice and Mrs Aadu Black too? It's written three times now, and so is Bush. What's going on with the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U295	Unfortunately, there is a technical problem here. Those who didn't ask the question last night are probably going to have a bit of a lapse. But I have it all written down. Don't worry, everyone can ask exactly as many times as they're supposed to. Mr. Stalnukhin, you can ask after Kalev Kallo next. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U296	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U297	Excuse me for a second! Eiki Nestor has a procedural question. A microphone for Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U298	I have concerns about Mrs Võsa: can she ask three questions or must she ask the same question three times?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U299	He can ask just as many times as he has left. He's got one, that's another. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U300	I understand, of course, that a little bit maybe colleagues are picking, but on the other hand, I also have a problem. I would normally like to follow the sitting of the Riigikogu and we have established our own routines here. If I wanted to follow the work of the hall from my room to be effective and to come to the hall on time, this table would not allow me to come to the hall on time, and I could miss the right to ask a question and call. Could the technical team still have information on when we can work normally? I'm really worried about my destiny because maybe I'll get in trouble if I don't talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U301	Mr. Riisalu, don't worry! Your fate is in safe hands. After the current person on the remote has answered all the questions, you can make a restorative. That means a little break before the co-rapporteur comes to the speaker's chair. If we do the restorative right now, the whole line's gonna disappear. Let us stick to this solution now. I have a list written down. You'll all have the exact word you're supposed to have. After Yana Toomi responds, we'll do a little break and everything will be specified. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U302	Madam President, I have no reason not to believe you. I understand you have everything written down, and you know quite exactly who can ask in which order. But we'd still like to know that, and that's what this taboo is for. Since we're definitely sitting here with you for 23 hours, there's no problem in taking a five-minute break and fixing it. Yesterday, this item that should have been taken out was still hanging on our little tabloids up until the end of the sitting. We could fix this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U303	Since the technical team says it'll be possible to fix this in five minutes, I'm telling you right now, before we go on break, the queue of the questioners, as it is now registered. The next question should be Kallo's second question, then the second question of Võsa, then Black as the first question, then Efendiev as the first question, then Stalnukhin as the first question, then Ossinovski and Allik. And Vasilyev just checked in. Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U304	The technical break is over and we will continue to ask questions. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U305	Mr President-in-Office, this was an example of why we do not trust electronic voting. But that's it. Dear waitress, yesterday I remembered from one of your answers that there must be over 60% of those who need the help of an interpreter to complete all the necessary documents. This is where I came up with a question of a specific number. What number of people could there be who might need translation services or administration in their own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U306	To be honest, I can't give you that answer, and you can't get that information. I just read an interesting study this morning. After this discussion of the Commission, my colleague Andres Anvelt sent a link to an interesting study which was carried out in 2007 and which examined the legal awareness of the Estonian people. It turns out very clearly that Russian-speaking people have a bigger problem than Estonian-speaking people. The information is searched in the wrong places, in the media or when communicating with neighbours, it is not possible to find the necessary information in the right place on the Internet, anywhere on the website, etc. There's a problem. This study also claims that on average one in five Estonian residents does not go to court because they cannot do so, they do not know how to proceed with it. And among such people are most Russian-speaking people. However, I am indebted to a particular number.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U307	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U308	Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not state at all how much this amendment could cost. However, it is clear that costs should increase. My question is this: what effect would this law have on the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U309	This has not been pointed out for the simple reason that we believe that this effect could be marginal. The costs of providing legal services shall be borne by the State on behalf of the person, but the State shall have the right to recover all or part of those costs from the later legal person. This means that if I am protected and found guilty, I will later pay back the money if I have not been released in advance, in part or in full, from the reimbursement of the costs of legal aid and my economic situation has not improved significantly within five years of the end of the legal aid procedure. I don't think this cost should be very high. We're talking about translating a little paper, and we have interpreters in every courthouse.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U310	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U311	Good waitress! The presentation repeatedly mentioned that languages have different prospects for development. One thing can be done in Estonian, some in English, etc. I have always been interested in processes a little more widely than in just one law, such as the developments they affect. A few weeks ago, Estonian newspapers wrote about a Swedish journalist (or was he a social scientist?), who forecast Estonia that in 50 years' time, Estonia will be a successful European country in English. And there's a tendency that way. Some Russian youths look for the opportunity to study in English at school and say that 'we have a dream to go to United States' etc., Estonian young people think that English should be studied. Based on your data, is there any reason to hope that Estonia's development will go exactly towards the small English state where at least the elite are in English, the people are not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U312	Thank you for this question. To tell you the truth, I was a little hurt by this formulation' if there's any reason to hope that... '! I do not hope that Estonia will become an English state. I understand it's quotes. First of all, I worked hard to learn Estonian and I will find it is a very good, beautiful, nice language, and I am in no way ready for this country to become English in the future. In this context, however, I remembered what Minister Aaviksoo said on Monday about this remote control. He spoke about higher education, and it is that higher education is becoming increasingly English, that there is a high demand for it and that it is quite OK. Maybe. But if you quote a Russian classic, it's not like I or you live in this bright time. We are living here now, and we are talking about the language in which things can be done in the Estonian state, which is still in Estonian, but where people who do not speak enough Estonian live.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U313	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U314	Honourable waitress! I will continue on my previous question. Yesterday, I was interested in how integration studies provide the basis for raising these questions. Today I ask how last year's population and housing census will allow it to be done. Yesterday you brought out some other ethnic communities, such as Finns and Swedes, who consider the Estonian language to be their home language and do not have such a problem. Can you tell us who else in small national communities uses the Estonian language as their home language and does not have a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U315	I'll start a little further. A very interesting conference on human rights was held on the weekend, and there was the European Roma problem. Europeans here in Estonia tried to clarify how we deal with Roma, and it was concluded that even our Roma community is divided into Estonian and Russian. And their problems depend on what language space they are in. That's what I was telling you just to explain. We have the fact that 97% of people call Estonian or Russian their native language, and among these Russians are Ukrainians, Belarusians, Tatars, Jews, and some Poles and Armenians. These are larger ethnic groups that are represented in Estonia. According to the census, there are 192 nationalities living in Estonia, but we do not have 192 home languages, but 2. The remaining 3% is split up somehow. I don't mean to offend anyone, but these are relatively marginal figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U316	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U317	Dear waitress, The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia stands by a number of paragraphs in order to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is fulfilled and fully enforced. This issue, however, also arises at all times in connection with this bill. Your answers from yesterday sometimes sounded to me, at least it seemed to me, your opinion that the principle of equal treatment was not being respected for this law, which we are trying to improve. The Justice Department takes a different view and thinks it's okay. Hence the question: could you explain your opinion on the principle of equal treatment here a little more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U318	Yes, I can. In this opinion of the Government of the Republic, which I have been so scratched that I do not understand what is written here, nor has it been clear before, it has been stated that a situation in which an application for state legal aid must be filed in Estonian or, in the cases provided for in § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid, in English may result in a breach of the fundamental right to universal equality laid down in § 12 of the Constitution. That is what the government itself says, and it is also signed by our esteemed Minister Michal. However, the Supreme Court has emphasised that, although all of this must be fulfilled, which I will not read out here in terms of saving time and the applications submitted in other languages will be returned, one of the conditions for the functioning of Estonia as a democratic republic under § 1 of the Constitution is that the persons exercising power fully understand what is happening in Estonia and use a single system of signs to deal with matters. (I understand that it means Estonian.) As a result, national support systems are built on the assumption that Estonian citizens should speak Estonian. Thus there are reasonable and appropriate reasons to justify unequal treatment, the government finds. I cannot share that view. First of all, it says here that those who exercise power fully understand what is happening in Estonia and so on. There is nothing questionable about this, it is self-evident that those who exercise power speak the Estonian language. But in this case, we are not talking about those who exercise power, we are talking about ordinary people on the street who would like to defend themselves with the help of the state. There's just two things messed up here. So this is clearly an unequal treatment. I don't know what else to say here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U319	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U320	Good waitress! I will proceed with Mr Stalnukhin's question. Looking at this government's position, it stands out that there is a formal justification for refusing to process the bill that the Estonian state is not obliged to provide legal assistance in Russian. It shall be explained at length which standards it is based on. But, according to my understanding, the government's position does not justify the rejection in substance. In the Commission or somewhere else, do you think there has been sufficient discussion as to whether, despite the lack of a formal basis, the question of political choice should still be moved forward with this draft in order to ensure social equality for Russian-speaking people in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U321	Thank you for this question. Unfortunately, I cannot call this debate that we had very thorough. It lasted about 15 minutes and I dare say that it was rather a debate involving the middle party and the soccer parties. We talked about it in the spirit that it would be good to do it. On the other side of the table was Mr. Randpere, who tried to make it clear to us that this was a sneaking russification. That is where the debate essentially ended. This 2007 study, which I mentioned here, did not attract any interest among honourable colleagues, as did this long list of practices in the European Union countries that I had to report yesterday on the platform, because nobody in the Commission wanted to get to know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U322	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U323	Dear waitress, When he asked you a question yesterday, Mr Randpere said that he has been waiting a long time for you to come to the Riigikogu with some proposals that would help the Russians to teach the Estonian language. As far as I know, both the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party have stressed the need to teach the state language in Estonia free of charge to all other people. What do you think of the idea of presenting a joint proposal by the political groups of the Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party to amend the language law in such a way as to provide for free learning of the Estonian language for everyone, regardless of the outcome of the citizenship text, as it is currently intended? We would then proceed according to the advice of Mr Randper and would be able to get at least one supporter from the coalition to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U324	Thank you for this question. I very much like this proposal, but I think there should definitely be Mr Randpere among the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U325	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U326	Good colleague and waitress! The draft refers to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. However, the Government of the Republic considers that this document has nothing to do with this draft. How do you comment on such a counter-argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U327	Thanks for the question, but, good Marika, spare me some patience, I have a whole bunch of paperwork here. I found it! How do I comment on that? It is a European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, namely Article 6 thereof. This article is entitled 'Right to a fair trial'. I just read it out, it's short: 'Everyone has the right to a fair and public trial, within a reasonable period of time, of independence and impartiality in deciding on his or her civil rights and obligations or the criminal charges brought before him, in a court set up by law. The judgment shall be delivered in public. The intermediate paragraph is not very important in the current context. Next, 'Everyone accused of a crime is considered innocent until proven guilty in accordance with the law. 'The third paragraph is the most important point in Article 6: 'Every accused person shall have at least the following rights: (a) obtain in an immediately understandable language detailed information on the nature and grounds of the accusation against him; (b) have sufficient time and opportunity to prepare for his defence; (c) defend himself or through a lawyer of his choice, or obtain free legal assistance if this is necessary for the purposes of justice and the accused does not have sufficient means to pay for legal aid; (d) question himself or have witnesses called to testify against him be questioned, have witnesses summoned from his side and be questioned on the same terms as witnesses who testify against him; (e) use of free interpreter's assistance if he does not understand or speak the language used in court. ' If we look at this small list, this point (e) which guarantees the assistance of an interpreter when a person does not speak the language used in court, and the right to state legal aid should be extended to all, not only to those referred to in his reply by the honourable Minister Kristen Michal, provided that everyone has learned the Estonian language. Not all of us have learned Estonian! We know this very well, we are constantly measuring our degree of integration and preparing integration plans. We know what the situation really is. I think this convention has a direct link to the draft we are debating today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U328	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U329	Honourable Yana! First of all, thank you for your thorough and expert comments! I will continue with the same convention and language skills. All members of the Riigikogu receive, one more, the other less, specific examples of attention and letters on the topics that we form here into laws or legislative changes. You are definitely among the members of the Riigikogu receiving many letters. You may have one or two concrete examples to give, which confirm that someone has been deprived of legal aid in Estonia due to poor language skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U330	To be honest, there's a lot of these cases, the Russian media constantly writes about them. If we take off some kind of portal, for example, where a bailiff sells forced-sale apartments, we'll find more Russian names there. When we examine the history of a case, we learn that often a person simply could not defend himself. It happens all the time on every level. The Consumer Protection Board is also aware of this. This is a very common problem. I am actually very sorry, I must mention here again the same integration plan. It somehow lives its own life and does not take into account the real problems of individual people. I'm so sorry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U331	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U332	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, you talked about the draft being discussed as a law that would contribute to integration. At the same time, we know that an integration plan for the next period is under development. My question has to do with this. Is this amendment of the law in line with our national integration policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U333	I think that this is in line with the need for common sense and real integration. Unfortunately, this is not in line with our country's integration policy. Our country's integration policy is built on a language-centred basis, which means that the people who develop it come from the fact that if we all learn the Estonian language, it will solve all the problems. Maybe it is, but it hasn't happened yet. We know perfectly well that there are people among us who will never learn Estonian. If they haven't done it in 20 years, they won't do it later. We may judge them or understand them, but that's just the way it is. In this sense, I am, I repeat, very sorry that there are no sensible proposals such as the translation into Russian of the medicine leaflets and the homepages of the ministries and the translation not as they translate in the Potemkin village. Yesterday I read to you the Russian-language website of the Ministry of Justice. There's basically no Russian-language information, only the headlines are glamorous. That is in the spirit of our integration programme, but it does not match the real needs of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U334	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U335	Good waitress! Can you also mention the international documents on which you prepared this draft? Does the Estonian state violate any international standards by not allowing Russian-speaking residents to apply for legal aid in their own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U336	I'm gonna have to go through my pile of paper again. But in doing so, I would remind you that Estonia has ratified the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, the implementation of which must be regularly reported. We are being criticised for doing this wrong, for doing this and for doing it wrong, and we are saying yes, we agree, we are doing this wrong, this and this, but we will improve ourselves. However, this correspondence does not change much after 3 to 5 years. However, as regards the legislation requested, I know where they are, namely in the second folder, one of them is the convention that Mrs Tuus-Laul asked about, while others are also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. It states very clearly what we are relying on: the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the same Article 6, point 3, which I have already read here, as well as Articles 12, 13, 15 and 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. They state very clearly that everyone is equal before the law and that no one should be discriminated against, including on the basis of language. This is a broad answer to your question, although I must admit, honourable colleague, that there were still a few international documents. If you really want, I'll start looking for them, but they're actually mentioned in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U337	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U338	Good colleague Yana! Yesterday, I read on social media that Yana Toomi has a plan to establish a second state language in Estonia, that is Russian. Have you talked about this plan in the Riigikogu Chair, or where did this information come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U339	It's a fitting example that you and I, the good Tarmo, live in a different information room. I read exactly the opposite in the Russian media, and both Estonian and Russian media relied on one paragraph of the verbatim report, where I answered either thousands of favourites or anyone else's question, saying that I do not want Russian to become another official language, but I am convinced that Russian should become a language of practice in certain areas, because it is needed in practical life. The official language is Estonian, but we also have people who speak other languages here. My message is still that I do not want national bilingualism in Estonia, but I would like the Russians to have the opportunity to do things in Russian, which would be the language of business.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U340	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U341	I'm going to keep going on the same subject. It is clear that in the Republic of Estonia, the official language as well as the working language is Estonian. At the same time, however, we have stated, both today and yesterday, by processing this bill and referring to the conventions, that if a person is accused of something, these accusations should be in a language that he understands. We cannot deny that there are people among Estonian citizens who do not understand the language that should actually be very good at Estonia, especially on the legal level. It's perfectly natural, but it's a big problem. I'm asking you, are the measures we're offering really enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U342	I've already told you that once you've passed this so-called first degree, there will be interpreters in court. They also translate Russian and Russian into Estonian. It's not a problem. The problem is that this small request, which we are discussing so long, must not be written in Russian. That's weird! However, it must state which problem the state is seeking legal assistance to solve. The description of the problem requires that a person is able to express himself well in writing, otherwise the matter does not make any sense. Or why the applicant needs state legal aid to protect his or her rights. 'Possible benefits for an applicant' were you able to describe the potential benefits, if you speak a national language on a domestic level, you can buy sausage, buy tickets and pay taxes at the store? This is a very big problem that can be solved very easily and very cheaply, and it is sad that we do not understand it very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U343	Please, Mr Randpere, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U344	Good Yana! You have talked long and wide about how bad the situation is in Estonia. At the same time, you have compared Estonia with all the other countries in the world and still come to the conclusion of how bad the situation in Estonia is. But you've left one country out of comparison, and I'd like to bring it in. I assume you have experience. How's Russia? In Russia, for example, if a citizen in the Republic of Tatarstan wants to go to court for legal aid, what language does he have to fill out a legal aid application in there? Can You Answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U345	Thank you! I must remind you that all the geographical background I was talking about yesterday concerned the countries of the European Union. Estonia is, as far as I know, a member of the European Union. We have nothing to do with Russia after the line of control, which is not even the border of the country, we do not. So I owe you an answer. You are deeply mistaken, thinking that I have a great experience in court in Tatarstan. This hasn't happened to me yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U346	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U347	Dear waitress, good colleague. You have really dealt with the very essence of the matter, and you certainly have information on the extent to which other countries of the European Union, especially those who joined us at the same time, have provided foreign-language legal assistance to their citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U348	I am now very tempted to read the long answer that Lauri Laas received yesterday. But I believe it's in the verbatim if anyone's interested. In your question, you are referring specifically to state legal aid, i.e. legal aid, the cost of which is paid by the state. In the countries of the European Union, the criterion for providing this is that the person's economic situation does not allow him or her to pay the costs of legal aid himself. If the recipient of the legal aid does not speak the official language, the necessary translation costs shall also be payable in the context of the legal aid. It is an iron rule in every country of the European Union. In the event of a cross-border dispute concerning the provision of national legal aid, it follows from Article 7 of Council Directive 2003/8/EC that legal aid granted in the Member State in which the court is situated covers the costs of interpretation and also the costs of translating the documents required by the court or other competent authority and to be provided by the recipient of the legal aid which are necessary for the settlement of the case. There is another factor at stake here, which is also discussed in the Ministry's opinion. They claim that this is not a problem at all, because everywhere in Estonia there are so-called legal pharmacies, where any Russian-speaking person can go and have this application completed. This is not quite true for the simple reason that legal pharmacies are not everywhere in Estonia. For example, there is a courthouse in Pärnu, but there is and will not be a legal pharmacy. And even if he does, there will most likely be a single lawyer who doesn't speak Russian. In this sense, it is evil to delegate this problem to a third sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U349	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U350	Good waitress! In order for you to be able to fully convince me, I'll ask you if you've turned to the Chancellor of Justice's office. If so, how does the Chancellor of Justice feel about a situation in which people of other nationalities are not guaranteed certain rights? Have you turned there, or do you have a plan to turn there? I look forward to hearing from the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U351	I haven't done it yet. To be honest, I haven't considered it at first either. When I drafted this bill, because it seemed to me that it was such a small thing that shouldn't be contentious at all. All the more so because we have practice in how to use English to do this, this little form has been translated into English. Our people remember Russian and there are quite a few Russians in the justice system. That shouldn't be a problem. That is why I have not addressed the Chancellor of Justice. But if today goes badly, I will, of course, and next time I will refer to his opinion. However, I also hope that, although we are discussing this issue in a tense situation, my long story will come to mind and this bill will be adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U352	Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U353	Good Yana! We recently discussed a bill to set up a lawyer at the courts. It would be people who would explain difficult legal matters to the judges. Now we are discussing the possibility of adding another piece of paper to the legal aid application in Russian. How much administrative burden and financial cost can this involve? Is it bigger than creating one job? How serious a financial blow would it be to legitimize this single piece of paper for our entire judicial system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U354	However, I do not have a good answer for this for two reasons. First of all, I'm not just shaping my opinions out of the blue for expressing an apology! My opinion is now based on long and substantive discussions with lawyers who actually brought this problem to me. There should be no more places at all, because the same interpreters who exist in every court are obviously able to translate these short - content papers as well. This would probably increase their burden, but not very much. When we discussed this in the Commission, where a representative of the ministry was also invited, they, if memory does not deceive me, offered that around EUR 50000 would cost this change, and they did not have any statistics of how much this demand could be. From that I'm going to simply conclude that this amount was sucked out of the pen, just to show that it's very expensive fun. But how do you rate this workload if you don't know how much demand there is for it? If there had been a suggestion that they would analyse the situation and somehow measure how many people would like to take this opportunity, and then come out with their work, then we could somehow stop the procedure on this draft and see what happens next. But they did not have any form of dialogue. That's why the answer to that question is that I think it's white, they think it's black. But nobody really knows the right answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U355	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U356	Good Yana! If I remember correctly, it is not the first time we are discussing this issue in this Chamber. At least this spring, the Minister of Justice, Michal, responded to the question, and at that time, his answers seemed to me as if I wasn't fooled by the memory that the government was already making sure that non-Estonians were also granted legal aid. It is as if the state is already allocating quite large sums to solve this problem. Listen to your report and your answers, which have been going on for two days now, I have a different understanding. Which one is really right? How do you comment on the words of Minister Michal in the spring that there is no problem in this area, and the money has already been allocated to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U357	You know, I've noticed a strange thing. Every time we come up with some kind of bill that concerns Russian, our ministries are very clearly divided into two parts. Some ministries are about to oppose: Estonian is the official language, and the point. We don't discuss things anymore. However, there is also, as I say, a more empathetic approach. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs, whose activities I am generally not very happy with, has never come up with this. This argument was also missed when we discussed a controversial issue such as the medicines leaflets. We all realize that it is the life and health of people, and it does not matter what language he speaks before he dies because he has used too many medicines in any way wrong. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice is not one of their empathy. There is always the first reaction that Estonian is the official language. And this tradition I remember since the Minister of Justice was Ken-Mart Vaher. It's kind of a very clear understanding there, and it's the first argument against it. I feel that this argument is so important to them that they simply refuse to think. But maybe I'll generalize too much and insult the good ministry officials. However, if I had been satisfied with the Minister's reply in April, this bill would not have come. Let me briefly explain why I have not been satisfied with this. First of all, as always in disputes, how effective one or another country's programme works, the government puts all kinds of figures on our table. That's what the Minister did. I'm quoting. He said: 'In this year's state budget, the funds available to non-profit institutions for the organisation of legal aid are EUR 85000, and last year it was EUR 29061. Thus, this amount is currently three times higher than in previous years. " But for God's sake! I didn't ask for free legal aid, I asked how to ask for free legal aid. And the other thing is, we don't measure this real result, we measure the money spent and we think that if we've buried a lot of money in that hole, then this thing works God well. In this sense, the Minister's answer to the question was not the right answer and that is why this draft came to this Chamber. As for the argument that in Tallinn, Tartu, Jõhvi, Rakvere and Võru are legal pharmacies, this is very nice. But there are other, smaller settlements in Estonia. And in Jõhvi, for example, the legal pharmacy was opened two days a month at the time. That's not the solution! I hope I answered the question, and I'm sorry I got too emotional.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U358	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U359	Good waitress! The position of the Government of the Republic on the draft states that, in accordance with Article 13 (2) of Directive 2003/8/EC of the Council of the European Union, applications for legal aid and supporting documents shall be translated into the official language of the competent authority of the Member State or "one of the languages of the Member States corresponding to one of the languages of the institutions of the Community'. At the same time, it is claimed that English is the most spoken foreign language in Europe, which is mastered by the majority of Estonian officials. How do you comment on such an argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U360	Again, no one has determined what languages our officials possess, it is self-esteem. We've both been officials, and we know very well how to write CVs. You will be asked what languages you possess, and you will put a tick in the box 'in speech' or 'in writing' or 'in excellent' or 'in bad' or 'at first level'. That is all, and self-esteem may not be true. I'm sure you've also been in contact with a lot of officials who, according to the papers, seem to have mastered a foreign language, but when you start talking to them, it turns out they don't. So I don't think this argument is competent. And secondly, speaking of language skills, like it or not, it is a fact that we have a considerable number of people who certainly speak Russian for the simple reason that they studied at school in Soviet times and were taught that language. Of course, language may be forgotten, but I do not believe that we have people in the judicial system who speak English and do not speak Russian. Unfortunately, I've been to court myself recently, and I saw people who speak excellent Russian. In this respect, I believe that this argument does not hold any water.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U361	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U362	Good Yana! In my opinion, the correctly recorded application for legal aid is as important for life and health as the medicine leaflet. A person's life and health may also depend on an application for legal aid. And given that nearly half of the Estonian population is in the criminal record, the interest in this paper could be very high. But here's the question. Certainly, during the preparation of the draft law, there has been a very broad debate and, by statistical probability, there were also those people who might need this legal aid. What were the main arguments against and arguments about what madness could happen to the Estonian state if such a document were introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U363	I think we've already mentioned the worst things here. The worst danger was referred to as sneaking Russification, which is more of an emotional assessment and just such a good ax to cut off an idea like that. And that's all. I have not heard from the Commission, nor have I read from the government's point of view any percentage on which they would have relied. Just no, that's all!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U364	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U365	Good colleague! First of all, I thank you for your answer to my previous question. I fully agree with you that the fundamental question of the current draft and the question at all is not really a national language, as the Minister of Justice replied to you at the time. You and I both agree that Estonian is the official language and the point. But this question comes from me as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says that everyone is equal before the law, which in fact should also mean equal access to legal aid for Estonian citizens and other residents in Russian. However, we know that the government has not supported this bill. How do you comment on this situation? The Constitution says one thing, but the government that governs the country does not agree with what is written in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U366	Yes, on this subject we held a dialogue with Minister Michal in April. He had this sense of mind, I have already talked about it, it is also in the Ministry's position that, yes, they agree that § 12 provides for the right of everyone to equal treatment before the law of equality, but the government thinks that if there is a valid reason for violating this principle, this principle can be violated. The very fact that the Estonian language is the official language is a valid reason. The paradox is that all the other countries of the European Union, whom I have long listed here, also recognise the status of other languages. In Estonia, there are two statuses, the official language and the foreign language. Everything! In addition, one foreign language is spoken by one third of Estonian residents. There are countries with languages of local minorities or national minorities, as well as working languages, and all these languages do not endanger the national language. It's kind of sad to read it all in that sense. This is where I disagree with Minister Michal and the government's position. The argument that Estonian is a national language cannot justify a violation of the rights of people who have not learned the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U367	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U368	Good Yana! I understand that those who do not speak the two languages provided for by law must have their application translated into Estonian. When it comes to the experience of the European Union, is there an obligation in other EU countries to translate all these requests and, if so, who will pay for the translation service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U369	I have already answered the same question, and I have spoken about it yesterday. As a rule, some countries allow this application to be made in the applicant's mother tongue. These are the countries that have historically developed large groups of minorities. For example, in Finland, you can also apply in Swedish and vice versa. There's more of these countries. Hungary had to be quite gentle, in Spain it is possible to deal with these things in five other local languages, in addition to Spanish. That's one way. And the second possibility is that the application will be translated right from the start. If you walk into a courthouse and start filling out this paper, it will be filled in in your own language and later the state will either understand or not understand these costs from you, depending on whether you win or lose in court. Such practices exist and it is strange that we do not want to learn from these good examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U370	No further questions. Thank you, Yana Toom, for answering so many questions. I call on Mrs Tuus-Lauli, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to present the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U371	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act 271 was discussed in the Legal Affairs Committee on 13 November. a. The meeting was chaired by Marko Pomerants and attended by Andres Anvelt, Jaanus Tamkivi as an alternate member of Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere, as well as advisor Linnar Liivamägi and adviser-secretary director Raini Laide. There was no Kalle Laane, protocol Tiina Kärsna. The representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, Yana Toom, was also invited and Gunnar Vaikmaa, adviser to the Ministry of Justice's supervisory and legal services service, was invited. The Riigikogu Member of the Estonian Centre Party Group and the preparer of the draft Yana Toom gave the committee a comprehensive overview of the need to amend the State Legal Aid Act. He described the content and objectives of the draft and, of course, answered the questions. Yana Toom explained that the draft is needed to bring the form of the application for state legal aid into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. He explained that since, on average, one in three people in Estonia has Russian as their native language, it would be necessary for the initial legal aid to be available to these people in that language as well. The aim is to ensure equal treatment for all people living in Estonia and to provide Russian as the language of the application for legal aid in the State Legal Aid Act, in addition to Estonian and English. He explained that it was older people who were affected by the problem. Acquiring the Estonian language is no longer feasible for many of them. Yana Toom stressed that the state should treat all residents equally and referred to both the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The main changes to the draft are as follows: Firstly, all residents of Estonia will be given the opportunity to ask for legal aid from the state, and secondly, conditions will be created to help those who need the state's legal aid in real terms. There was also a historical background. According to Statistics Estonia, 109 languages are spoken as a native language in Estonia, but 97% of the residents consider Estonian or Russian as their native language. The majority of representatives of other smaller ethnic groups also speak Russian as their native language, with the exception of Swedes, Finns, Gypsies and people of some other nationalities who consider Estonian as their native language. In addition, it is known from the recent census and also from sociological studies that a significant part of the local population does not speak the Estonian language well or knows it at all. This is confirmed by the results of the 2008 monitoring of the integration of Estonian society. Particularly serious problems, as has been said, relate to pensioners and other older people. Article 6, point 3, of the ECHR provides that any accused person must have the right to defend himself or to obtain legal aid through a lawyer of his choice, unless the interests of justice so require and the accused does not have enough money to pay for this legal aid. In addition, the obligation of the Republic of Estonia to ensure the availability of state legal aid to all residents is also due to the combined effects of §§ 12, 13, 15 and 28 of the Constitution. Under the Constitution, the state must treat everyone before the law as equal and guarantee everyone equal opportunities for the protection of the law and the state, including the possibility of recourse to the courts to defend their rights. The Riigikogu discussed for the first time, as has already been said here, the draft law on state legal aid in 2004. Paragraph 12 (5) of that Act, which deals with the form of the application and the content of the application, was worded at the time in such a way that if the application or the documents attached to it were not submitted in Estonian, the person processing the application would arrange for the translation of those documents. If the application for legal aid is rejected, the costs of translating the documents shall be recognised by the applicant, while the costs of translating the documents shall be taken into account in determining the obligations of the recipient of the legal aid. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, the aim was to ensure that all persons had a professional and reliable legal service in a timely, adequate and accessible manner. On 15 June 2005, the Act implementing the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure was adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2006, which laid down § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid in the new version. It is worded as follows: 'The application for state legal aid is submitted in Estonian. The application may also be made in English if the legal aid is requested by a natural person residing in another Member State of the European Union or who is a national of another Member State of the European Union, or by a legal person established in another Member State of the European Union. The application forwarded to the court in another language shall be returned. ' The representative of the Ministry of Justice then presented the position of the Government of Vaikmaa and stated that the Government did not support the draft. He also answered questions from the members of the Commission and from the initiator's representative. Why does the Government of the Republic not support this bill, and what is the government's opinion? On 11 October this year, the government decided unanimously not to support the draft 271 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. That's for the next reason. This draft law justifies the need to amend Paragraph 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid with reference to Article 6 (3) of the ECHR. In the view of the Government, the draft does not contain any examples of how Article 12 (5) of the State Legal Aid Act in force contradicts this document, either on the basis of that convention or on the basis of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. The initiator of the draft law claims that a situation in which an application for legal aid can also be filed in English in the Estonian language and in the cases provided for by the law may result in a breach of the fundamental right to universal equality laid down in § 12 of the Constitution. At the same time, the Supreme Court has stated that restricting the principle of equality is not in itself a violation of this principle and that the principle of equality in lawmaking has been violated when unequal treatment cannot be justified in constitutional terms. According to the practice of the Supreme Court, it is sufficient that there is a reasonable, relevant reason to justify unequal treatment, which is not contrary to the Constitution. The government also points out that § 6 of the Constitution states that Estonian is the official language. The use of Estonian as an official language is further regulated by § 51 and 52 of the Constitution. According to § 52 (1) of the Constitution, the working language of state institutions and local governments is Estonian. Administration is all official communication that must then be used in Estonian. The Government of the Republic considers that if the law on state legal aid is amended in such a way as to allow the application for legal aid to be made in Russian as well, the translation of applications will place too great a burden on the state, which is not feasible. It is recommended to seek legal aid from non-profit organisations or legal advice agencies free of charge. It is noted that the Supreme Court has stated that according to § 12 (5) of the Legal Aid Act, the application for legal aid must be submitted in Estonian or English; the application submitted in another language will be returned because there should be a uniform system of signs. Pursuant to § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid, an application for legal aid may also, in certain cases, be submitted in English. This is when a person stays abroad and needs such legal assistance. The government has also noted that English is the language most spoken in the European Union, which is also known by the majority of Estonian officials. Coalition politicians and government representatives generally pointed out that the courts already have a lot of work and this legislative amendment would bring more work. It was also claimed that there are no Russian speakers in the courts, in my view this is not the case, and that, since the application is multi-page, long and voluminous, translating them would be very laborious. In fact, Yana Toom here showed that the initial application for legal aid is only a few pages long. It was also noted that the majority of the courts speak English in addition to Estonian. The main counter argument, however, was the need for additional work and additional expenditure. A number of questions were asked in the Commission. If the rejection of the draft was largely justified by the fact that Estonian is the official language of Estonia, why does the law also allow the application to be completed in English? Whether it's a matter of principle was asked. In reply, according to Article 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid, the application for legal aid may also be submitted in English in certain cases on the grounds that the possibilities for translation in Estonian by citizens of the European Union living abroad are much more limited than those who speak Russian in Estonia. There was an argument that was already mentioned here, but I'm still talking about it. In the Commission, it was argued that it was like a political decision, there was also talk of a sneaky russification. They asked how many Russian-speaking people were left without help. There aren't any statistics on that, but I realized a couple of dozen people. It's just that the state has no interest in it and hasn't kept any statistics. There was also a discussion of how well an Estonian would be able to fill out these important and complex legal documents to help the Russian people. It would still be necessary for the content of the application to be further understood, understood, what is the problem at all. If the form is not understood and the person in need does not know how to write his story thoroughly, then the whole process may depend on it. In the Commission, an example was given by Minister Aaviksoo, who passed the Estonian language exam, as we remember, and who could not say whether he made a few minor mistakes there or not. It was stressed that such language support would be essential. A good colleague, Valdo Randpere, pointed out in the example of Sweden that there is no foreign language assistance in Sweden, for example, when exchanging passports. He suggested that you learn Estonian so that we do not have to bully and fight. There was also talk about the survival of Estonian language and culture, a little like in the context of the political lecture. Yana Toom replied that the Estonian language should be the official language, and that is what you should speak very well. But he represents his constituents and, unfortunately, they do not all speak Estonian and so they have problems. He added that the Finnish language can also be handled very well at the Swedish courthouse and can submit documents in Finnish. It was further argued that if the applicant had a lawyer, there would be no language problem. However, a person should be able to apply for primary state aid in his or her native language. We shouldn't consciously screw up the tension, and we could still meet people. The need for help is often elderly people who are unable to learn the Estonian language. That's a pretty detailed overview, then. He was told exactly what happened in the committee, almost like a verbatim. The draft would enter into force as a law in January 2013. The Commission decided to put this draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 4 December 2012, i.e. today, the decision was consensual. The Commission proposes to reject the draft, with 5 Commission members in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. So it's pretty close. The rapporteur in the Chamber was appointed by consensus to speak here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U372	Thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U373	Good waitress! I too am deeply concerned about the survival of the Estonian language and nation. However, we have agreed to legal aid in English. There are a number of large languages in Europe: German, 80 million people in Germany, 50 million French, 50 million Polish. When Britain withdraws from the European Union, it is as if we no longer have the right to use English as the language of the European Union. Did the Commission mention that other large language groups could at some point demand legal aid for European Union citizens in the language they use as one of the official languages of the European Union? All these languages are official languages. Was this threat discussed in the Commission or did it not come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U374	Good colleague! I have just stressed that I think I have explained in detail everything that was going on in the Commission and what was said there, what questions were raised. But, of course, we all want our language and culture to survive, so that the Estonians are and will continue and not be a situation like this year, that the country has the lowest birth rate in many years. So there's a problem. As for what you asked about, I think it is rather a matter of showing good will, of receiving our bill, rather than creating tensions in Estonia. It's a question of good conduct and understanding, helpfulness. I think that's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U375	No further questions. Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. Let's start the negotiations. I would like to invite my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin as a representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U376	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Above all, I would like to thank the main rapporteur, Yana, who has been able to explain in very detail in two days what is at the heart of the question, which is the problem. And rarely does Marika hear an accurate and completely perfect overview of the Commission's work today. I'm grateful to them! Now to the point. I didn't just thank the waitresses. Perhaps the most important things have been said. It is clear to everyone that it is our wish, as the Centre Party Group, to extend the possibilities of state legal aid, to make this process more democratic. The question arises here, especially when the result is that 5 of the Commission voted against this draft law and 4 of the members of the Commission supported whether the question is purely legal. It can be said that this is not the case. If there were only a legal question, most of us would support this bill in this Chamber, because helping a person in a difficult situation is natural. Consequently, there is a problem somewhere else, in another area. This area is a language policy, its principles and objectives. The fundamentals of language policy are established by the Estonian Constitution and it is clear to everyone that the official language is Estonian. But the question immediately arises as to whether this formula, which we agree with, of course, has some models. What does that mean? For example, does this definition have an ideal model? What do I call the perfect model? For example, when you look at different models of society based on the political views of one theoretician or another, they can be brought on a massive scale. We are well acquainted with socialism in Estonia more than 20 years ago. But what was wasn't complete socialism. Communism would never have been achieved, for what theorists had invented was the perfect model. Communism was a characteristic of striving for equality in the development of society, for neither the poor nor the rich. It was the perfect model. But life brings in corrections. When theory reaches practice, when trying to create this ideal model somewhere in the country creates collective farms where, of course, there is no equality, there is a clear understanding that it should be done differently. What, then, is the ideal model of the national language? I don't think you're gonna take this as a joke, but if you think about it, the perfect model would be a model where everyone living in Estonia would speak Estonian. In fact, if we were talking about the ideal model, they would only speak Estonian for what would more languages be needed? For the ideal model, the entire written word from books to the Internet would be in Estonian only, and all the information that spreads in the country would be in Estonian. Information coming into the country would only be in Estonian and out of the country as well. That would be the perfect model. We understand that such a thing cannot be achieved, even if there were 10 million Estonians, as the President of the Riigikogu offered in one of his interviews, answering the question of how many of us should be. But even then, that would be unlikely. I discussed this with a colleague who left us a long time and a half ago before he realized that this was a purely theoretical approach. But it took time! And judging by the serious faces in the hall, I assume the idiocy of the perfect model has never been told to you before. I hope you understand that there is something in this model that does not allow it to be carried out. In short, ideal models exist, but it is impossible to realise the ideal model in practice. This knowledge gives us the opportunity to approach real life and look at the problem addressed in bill 271 from both a pragmatic and a human perspective. A specific person turns to the state for legal aid. Is he doing this for entertainment? No, she does it for him in a difficult situation when she needs a quick response. As a rule, this person is in a poor financial situation. Given that we are talking about the Russian-speaking population, it can really be a rule. The choice of the country is either to insist on reaching out to the ideal model or to base itself on humanistic principles, humanity that everyone understands. That means that today, if we're realists, if we're mostly human pragmatists here, we should support this bill. If not, it is likely to be voted against. But don't do that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U377	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin, for a very interesting speech. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading and we must vote through it. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U378	Before we vote, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party requests a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U379	Break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U380	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the law on state legal aid initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 271. Please vote! 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 25 against, no abstentions. The proposal found support, bill 271 has fallen out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U381	We will begin the third reading of Bill 307 of the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Please, Mr Võsa, from the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U382	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Right now, what's in front of us? 307 SE! This is once again one of the draft laws initiated by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party: a draft law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws aimed at organising registers and enabling the introduction of new procedural software in the business register. Similarly, if the draft law enters into force, it will allow for a slightly more reasonable sharing of the work of the heavily burdened registry departments with those who do not have such a high working pressure. In fact, this bill has been circulating in these halls before, and there has already been a saalis here. Its history is much longer than on any other bill. I think that is why anyone who has wanted to do this has come to grips with it, and so you could say that, as a result of such a thorough work, this draft has become quite good. So what if the initiators have been the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party? Reasonable allocation of the workload is reasonable! Those who are currently perhaps overburdened with work in Tallinn can assign some tasks to those who do not have so much work. Understandable and reasonable! It is also reasonable to reduce the fine provided for in the Code. Personally, I am deeply convinced that a person must be raised, trained and taught rather than severely punished. So it's a two-handed side. The importance of teaching and directing is not the severity of the sentence or the enormous amount of the fine, but rather the knowledge that the punishment is inevitable. In my opinion, the inevitability of punishment is what will help a person who has broken the law to reassess and change his behaviour. But there are also bottlenecks. What are they like? Let's get the registers cleaned up. Yes, making all kinds of entries will be easier, but in the course of this reorganisation, among other things, it will be possible to start winding up debtor companies. In the moment, entrepreneurs who own troubled companies live in constant fear. The IRS is chasing them, demanding debts, but now, please, let's clean up the register, and a lot of troubled companies can be wiped out with an easy move! So the mere reduction of this penalty rate alone is not enough if we write such a contradiction in this law. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U383	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U384	I have no objection to the 307 vote in favour, but I would like to point out that if we are here to cook a state pie, then we should look at these things in a slightly different way and look at them in greater depth. Together with this bill, we should also have discussed how we could give the Tax and Customs Board some more money to make their work more effective. And before giving the opportunity to start winding up troubled companies so easily, efforts should also be made to recover existing debts. But for some reason, we don't want to deal with this here. The Tax and Customs Board has confirmed that we have almost EUR 500 million in taxes that are missing. And if we don't make the slightest effort to get this money, and we just fix the lid and handle of the pot to cook this state pie and make it more beautiful, but we don't understand that there's a hole in the bottom of the pot, it won't do much more than that to change the law. Businesses who have wished to remain in debt may have done something wrong and are given the opportunity to write debts in the chimneys. The country's writing their money in the chimney! The law has turned out very good, but basically the situation doesn't change the slightest. So, you're welcome or you mind, I'll vote yes, you do whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U385	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and now we will go to the final vote. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U386	Madam President, before the vote, the Centre Party Group is asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U387	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U388	Dear Riigikogu! Since this bill needs a majority of the Riigikogu membership to be adopted, please let's do a check-in! 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 307 amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please vote! 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U389	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Bar Association and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Please, Marika Tuus-Laul as representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U390	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law aims to amend the organisational arrangements of the Bar Association, which abolish the status of parental assistant of the lawyer, amend the form of the barrister's examination and align the existing law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on more effective guarantee of the freedom to provide legal services. In the Commission, the debate on the draft law has been quite meaningful. The author has repeatedly emphasised that the draft law has also been discussed at the General Assembly of the Estonian Bar Association. Lawyers have agreed and agreed to the draft. I would therefore rather focus on a directive aimed at amending the regulation on advertising bans. Under the current law, lawyers are not allowed to advertise their activities in any way. So far, one of the main arguments of the ban has been that public advertising can lead to a situation where lawyers are to be chosen purely according to advertising banners, which do not coincide with more conservative views, for example, on the specific nature of the profession. At the same time, advocacy is a good way to inform a large number of potential clients about the services offered by the law firm. Thus, people can learn more about which law offices operate in different fields. This amendment is intended to alleviate the ban on advertising for lawyers, sworn translators and patent attorneys. The Directive requires, at least in part, the total withdrawal of restrictive prohibitions relating to commercial communications by regulated professions. It is not intended here to be a language concerning the content of commercial communications, but rather a language which generally prohibits the use of one or more forms of commercial communication for a particular profession. For example, it is forbidden to preach in one or more media. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, advertising is in principle permitted, but certain conditions must be respected. Unlike today, a lawyer can use radio, newspapers, and the Internet to promote his activities. According to the new wording, advertising containing an invitation to conclude a contract is completely prohibited. The lawyer must not take advantage of the knowledge that there are persons to whom he can offer legal advice or representation on a case-by-case basis. For example, it is prohibited for a lawyer to use advertising to attract persons who may have claims for damages in certain specific circumstances or to provide them with a contractual representation. So we can no longer ask whether a ban on advertising is good or bad, just regulation needs to be updated. At EU level, this has been resolved by the decision to liberalise the market and authorise advertising. At the same time, the liberalisation of the category often raises a lot of questions. Good coalition ambassadors! On the one hand, you want to liberalise the law by saying eloquently and clearly that it is only because of this that it is possible to offer services and products to a large number of potential customers. On the other hand, however, you claim that imposing restrictions on advertising sales will in no way affect the consumption of services or products. I am thinking here of restrictions on alcohol advertising initiated on the initiative of the Centre Party. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U391	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U392	Various studies have clearly indicated that the effect of alcohol advertising is reflected in statistics on drinking people, especially young people. As in the case of advertising, it is directly intended to attract the purchase of the product. Estonia's overly free, perhaps even non-existent restrictions on alcohol advertising have obviously had an impact on the consumption patterns of our small people. According to the Institute of Economics, last year the consumption of Estonian people's alcoholic beverages was 18.29 million litres in 100% alcohol, and this averages 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per capita, from infants to the elderly. If we decide on the basis of the data of their institute of economics, we can claim that the consumption of alcohol in Estonia is self-destructive from the point of view of our people's gene pool. However, I would ask you to give some thought to all these decisions in this Chamber, whether they are statesmanlike or not. The coalition still makes a great deal of harmful decisions. Unfortunately, in many cases, it can be seen that the coalition is simply being driven over by a road roll of ministries and that the resulting hatred is being directed directly against the opposition. Even now, in the case of a lump in the state budget, which is being worked out for the second week, you have seen that you have been able to tie it even more. We believe that such behaviour and such decisions will not improve our cooperation. However, the Centre Party Group very much wants to work with the Coalition. Hence our current decision that we will certainly vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U393	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and now we will go to the final vote. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U394	Madam President, before voting on behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U395	Yes, I understand that the Centre Party Group must think about what to vote for. Ten minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U396	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Please, let's do the presence check! 72 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 29. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on the Bar Association initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto 273. Please vote! 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U397	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary fee law and the law on civil status proceedings initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, Marika Tuus-Laul as representative of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U398	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot miss an excellent opportunity to speak once again about the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary's fee law and the law amending the Civil Status Act with 308. A good colleague, Heimar Lenk, has already said at second reading of this bill that it symbolizes a situation where it has become sloppy and also arrogant. I have no choice but to agree with Heimar Leng. It is remembered that this bill was one of the unfortunate ones that fell out of the proceedings when too many coalition ambassadors had either left the Chamber of the Riigikogu abroad or just left the Chamber of the Riigikogu for that day. At the time, several reform parties cursed the opposition through social media, which attracted widespread interest and was interesting in that it was precisely the question of whether the coalition ambassadors had to work or could travel around. Unfortunately, the handling of this bill did not go much better even when it was discussed again in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The coalition ambassadors were able to get their votes together, but the committee rapporteur did not want to give substantive answers to the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. We didn't get them. I fully agree with the views expressed in the Chamber at the time that the Commission rapporteur must also provide other explanations, not only by mechanical means, but also that this issue was not discussed in the Commission. This is the way in which a certain double standard is created and, in essence, the importance of pending drafts is reduced, so as not to say, these drafts are ridiculed. How can the law not be passed because the coalition ambassadors are away from Estonia? Then it's kind of an irrelevant question. But when the representatives of the Riigikogu ask various questions in the Chamber, the answer is that this issue was not discussed in the committee. In my opinion, it should make perfect sense that members of the Riigikogu receive answers to their questions, why else would our Rules of Procedure even provide for the possibility of inter-reading questions? The coalition ambassadors need to understand that if their conscience really allows them to use the road roll method and to vote down all opposition initiatives numbly, there will be a confrontation where some of the drafts might end up in a dead end. This is not the spite of the opposition, nor is it a mockery, as it is believed that you have, in fact, led Parliament itself to such a situation. I would like to remind you of any draft legislation on the restriction of sales of energy drinks to children or adolescents or the increase in school food support or the reduction of electric excise duties that people so eagerly expect and even every day ask whether it will or will not come. If you would come up against us on such matters, it would really not be very difficult to get more votes from the opposition at certain critical moments if they were lacking themselves. The coalition and the opposition, as I have emphasised here several times today, do not have to be a strong confrontation and a vicious enemy. But when we come back to this bill, we must agree that the implementation of the amendments to the matrimonial property register law is very important. It creates prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register, the introduction of electronic registers and files, and the facilitation of access to data entered in the matrimonial property register. In addition, the procedure for informing the matrimonial property register on selected property relationships when marrying is simplified with a view to reducing the workload of civil status officers. Good coalition ambassadors! I don't mean to criticize your behavior at all, but I think you've hurt us in every way. If you were more constructive and more willing to compromise, it would be better for us to get along in this Chamber, and we should not have pre-Christmas night sessions. But since we still want things to work out better, we are voting in favour of this bill. But you have the key, and the choice is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U399	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now go to the final vote. Yes, colleague Valeri Korb?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U400	Madam President, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U401	Thank you very much. We need to think! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U402	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We have reached the final vote on the draft 308. Since the approval of draft 308 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, before the final vote, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 68 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 33. Good colleagues, I'm going to put a draft of 308 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there are no abstentions or objections. The draft law 308 of the Estonian Reform Party Group and the law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary fee law and the law on civil status procedures initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U403	We move to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of Bill 264 on the amendment of the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Please beg the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Peeter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U404	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prison Act is one of those laws that raise the profile of the population. The main reason for this attention is, of course, the problems of social justice. It is one of the painful issues on the agenda in our country that is intertwined with the law of imprisonment. That's the question: "Show or be"? In other words, Estonia has really started to become a so-called "facade country," where everything is fine on paper, even if this appearance is to be paid for a lot of money. The point is that rich countries can afford the same standard of living, while poor countries can afford a different standard of living. Our government has decided that we are already at the forefront. We're already in the top five, and we're willing to pay it some crazy money sometimes. In the crowd, quietly but sometimes loudly expressed resentment has been caused by the fact that people think that the government loves prisoners more than its poor and old people. And they don't really think that for no reason. Our government strives to treat prisoners as mercifully as we really are among the five richest countries. Such problems have occurred in other countries, but mostly developed European countries have remained dignified. I will give you an example of Norwegian prison practice. For a long time, the Norwegian Parliament did not allow colour televisions to be taken to Norwegian prisons, and black and white televisions were driven through. The reason was simple: prisoners who have been deprived of their liberty for violations of the law deserve no greater privileges than free but poor people. It is true that Norwegian prisons now have colour televisions because they are quite present in the poorest Norwegian families. There are stories in Estonia about how someone asked a police officer, and they do not have undiscovered crimes, some of which could declare themselves to be the perpetrator of it, so that they could move from their unheated and poor habitat to a warm prison for colder months. It's possible there's a humour in this story, or I think it's even irony mixed with reality. There are similar examples of real life. For example, the Estonian media were attracted to the case when the prisoner released from the prison in Tartu refused to leave the prison after the penalty period had passed. Eventually, the man even lay down on the prison entrance and had to call the police to take the former prisoner out of the prison house. The man just didn't have a place where he'd be as safe as living in prison. Full of guts, a roof over your head, what else can you desire? There are many such reproaches. A question that has been through the press, which I find quite interesting and very strange, applies, for example, to Communion wine. Such examples can be found in yes and in more. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U405	Would you please or would you ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U406	Please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U407	Got it! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U408	At the same time, I have also read the views of some of the prisoners on this draft of those who have taken the trouble to write to this Riigikogu. Prisoners still love writing from time to time. They complain that all things prohibited by the bill are, in fact, already banned in prisons by various regulations and internal rules. In some prison homes, even electricity is forbidden during the night's peace, making it absurd to ban all things that consume electricity at night. I agree with lawyers in this sense that the Estonian law must be the same as the Estonian state: it must look beautiful, simple and understandable. But it doesn't matter that the law really is. So we can ban matters with the regulations, the internal rules, and finally with the law. All right, we'll ban electricity by regulation and we'll ban electrical devices by law. Deal! For those who have erred against the rules of common life, there must be a law that could be interpreted according to how the detention facility is better. But you don't have to go too far. I understand that there is no need for a game console, headphones or a music center, because good music is released from the speakerphones in prison houses. However, I do not understand this point in the law that prohibits the possession of an electric kettle in a dungeon at night, where there is no electricity anyway. All right, actually, let it be what it is. My concern, which I would like to express here, is that we should treat all our people equally, whether they are a prisoner or a pensioner, a troll leader or a minister. In fact, even the poorest person in Estonia, whether he is a pensioner or any poor person, should be able to express his opinion on those draft laws that affect his life just as the prisoners who have a roof over their heads are warm and full of food. If we could achieve that, we'd be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U409	Thank you. I ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U410	Thanks! President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I was brought here by a sense of justice. Do you remember 30 November in this Chamber and that night when we had the second reading of the Prisoning Act on the agenda and our joint colleague Aadu Must asked the following question: 'Mr Kallo may be blaming me right now for being a mean person, but I have a serious procedural problem. There are so many fingertips, spelling and other mistakes in the materials issued on this bill that my two hands and toes are not enough. I don't know how I'm supposed to react in this case. It's like reading these mistakes in a hearing is too much. To pretend, however, that we have not noticed them, and to hope that someone may be able to correct them, it is not right either, because perhaps no one will even notice them. Do I have to submit a list of these errors to the initiator, the lead committee, the minister or the respected floor worker to whom we usually submit corrections to our calls? How am I supposed to behave? ' I asked my colleague Black to correct these errors in order to get the bill fixed by the deadline. Today we received an e-mail from my colleague Black. A colleague should be commended for having worked hard and submitted the volume of scientific research notes on the draft materials. A total of 29 comments, together with the author's comments, are available on 10 pages. However, 28 of these comments were not criticised for the text of the second reading of the draft law, for some reason the explanatory memorandum to the first reading of the draft law, which was no longer available or relevant in the second reading of the Chamber. However, it cannot be said that Mr Black's criticism was completely unfair. Indeed, there was one mistake in this second reading text that was presented to us in the Chamber. In fact, there was no space behind one decimal point. For the third reading, the language correctionr has improved it nicely and there is a flawless draft before you. Now the answer to the question where the comments should be sent. In this case, it would certainly have been correct to submit them to the authors of the explanatory memorandum so that they could sometimes write the explanatory memorandum at first reading better. But once again, the draft that is now before you is correct, and my suggestion is that the head of the Centre Party Group either give my colleague Black more work or present him as a candidate for the Centre Party Language Prize for a continuous and thorough analysis of draft laws and related materials. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U411	Thank you. A rejoinder. Please, Aadu Black, on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U412	Mr President, is it possible to reproduce this material I have prepared before the vote? I've got it in my hand, and I'm gonna tell you again that my heart hurts because of what kind of trash is being thrown at us. I'm saying this isn't just a mistake with this bill. Read the text of the billboards we must blush! The worst part is that if students want to do their language exercises, they will dismantle the register of documents in the Riigikogu, pick up some documents and learn what scientific editing is, because there are so many mistakes there. This doesn't just apply to this bill. My email was aimed at one thing: enabling errors to be corrected. If Mr Pomerants wants to make this an insultingly big question, I will continue my work and carry out a scientific analysis of the last ten drafts of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It's really going to be the size of a book. We should not allow the light of primary education to shine in our work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U413	Thank you. I believe that the comments on the spelling we will certainly take into account. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We shall move to preparing the final vote on the draft 264. Valeri Korb, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U414	Thank you, Madam President. [[Laughter.]] I'm sorry, I'm so used to the presence of Madam Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U415	Madam Chairman is here. You see, there!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U416	Mr President, before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U417	Got it! I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U418	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We have reached the final vote on Bill 264. I will put Bill 264 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 64 people voted in favour with convincing results, no respondents or impartial parties have been adopted as 264 laws by the Government of the Republic as a draft law amending the Prison Act and related amendments to other laws. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U419	We are going to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law 288 on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U420	What virtue are you asking for a speech? The Round of Negotiation? But the round of negotiations was over. Wait a minute! Dear colleagues, I have a question for you. Our fellow official would like to make a speech on behalf of the group, although we have already abandoned the round of negotiations. However, we have not yet opened the vote. Do you agree with that? Unfortunately, this speech cannot be given. Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall! We are going to prepare the final vote on the draft 288. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U421	I'm asking for a call!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U422	Mr President, before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U423	Thank you. I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U424	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I will put draft 288 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one member of the Riigikogu is against, there are no abstentions. Draft 288 Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U425	We are going to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. In the debate on Bill 263, do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Please ask Priit Toobali, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U426	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Public Information Act aims to stimulate the creation of new products and services in the private sector by making public information re-usable. To this end, the Estonian legal order is specified by the provisions on the re-use of public information. As I said at second reading, the draft was initiated in order to correct the violations referred to by the European Commission in the Estonian legal order. The Commission has indicated that the rights related to the re-use of public information are not guaranteed in Estonia or that the relevant solutions are not sufficiently clear in the current law. It can therefore be reiterated that the wider purpose of the draft is to resolve the problems referred to by the European Commission and to lay down more clearly the rules for the re-use of public information in the Estonian legal order. In fact, Estonia is late in the creation of this legal order or, rather, in the restoration of this legal order, so that the European Commission has repeatedly been asked for an extension period. The European Commission has so far met us, and now it is time to fix this in order to look good in front of the Estonian people and the European Commission. We are very pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent its proposals on 263 Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. Outside the sessions, the Estonian Association of NGOs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were also met. Four amendments to the draft came together. All these changes are, in my opinion, extremely important. I'll give you some reasons. The first amendment clearly spells out the prohibition of exclusive agreements, unless they are necessary and justified in the public interest. When concluding exclusive agreements, the administrative body must assess each time their necessity and justification. The second amendment was due to negotiations with the Estonian Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications. According to this, the data must be made available in a timely manner. The term 'up-to-date' must be interpreted flexibly. The aim is to keep up as fresh data as possible. This is undoubtedly an important change, because in this way we defend ourselves against the so-called pile-up and upkeep, or forgetting, of garbage. Old data must be clearly distinguishable from up-to-date data. The third amendment was also proposed by the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. This deficit could otherwise have been overlooked by the Commission. The possibility of connecting databases is created so that they can be linked to the information gate, to be easier to say, to allow access through a single portal, such as the eesti.ee information gate. By making this amendment, we will avoid the imminent reopening of the law and get a more accurate result. The fourth amendment may be the most important for people, data users. According to the draft law, the law is accompanied by an implementing provision according to which, after the entry into force of § 582 of the Act, everyone must have access free of charge to the data contained in the database to be established after the entry into force of § 582 of the Act. True, this free access must be guaranteed by January 2015, but this too. At the second reading of the draft, I stressed from this panel that all data should be available free of charge and that the cost-based compromise that has been made also raised questions in the Commission. It should be noted that this money is not being asked in other European countries. The draft law amending the Public Information Act, which bears the number 263, is, in my opinion, a good example of how a complex law can be improved by involving different parties, including non-parliamentary parties. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U427	It's okay. Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U428	In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there were very many disputes on this subject, but fortunately our Member of the Commission, a good colleague, Mr Korobeinik, was able to effectively manage the whole process. Various parties were met, as I said: Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Union, including the Estonian Internet Community. All meetings were attended by representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The corobeian called the various parties several times and was able to transport this rather specific dispute. Why am I talking about this? This shows once again that there are people in coalition parties and even in the Reform Party who want and can reach compromises. Why is this talk of compromise important today? Because restoring Parliament's working peace is also a matter of compromise. It would be extremely easy to restore a cease-fire if coalition parties were more willing to compromise. The proposal of the Centre Party to restore a working peace is a compromise proposal and there is nothing complicated about it. We will lower the electricity excise to ease the rise in electricity prices next year! We have presented our vision, but we are undoubtedly prepared to negotiate all terms with the coalition. We are open and prepared for compromise, just as this draft came about as a result of compromises. However, as far as the Public Information Act is concerned, it should become quite a good law after the draft has entered into force, thanks to numerous discussions. The Centre Party Group intends to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U429	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation, I will close the negotiations. Let us now go to the preparation of the final vote on the draft 263. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U430	Mr President, before the vote on behalf of the Central Party Group, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U431	Got it! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U432	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I will put draft 263 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 263 amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U433	We will move on to the eighth item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U434	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the mild cold will not distract me from explaining to you why, in a situation where I would basically like to support the fight against tobacco, I will not do so and will not recommend it to the members of my group. So this is a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, which will increase excise duties on tobacco by 6% next year and the next year. There is such information in the explanatory memorandum that we need to increase the excise duty rate by 10% in order to meet the entry into force of the European Union minimum rate. Firstly, in order to increase 10% in 2014, 6% and 6% will be increased in two years, which is not 10% and not 12% in the end. Why don't I funnyly support any bill coming from the Government of the Republic? Because even if you think everything's okay, sooner or later, it turns out that the skin is being pulled over the ears again. Some time ago, I learned that the European Union has authorised eight countries, including Estonia, to postpone the introduction of this minimum rate until 2018. This means that the increase in the minimum rates of excise duty could be quite different, for example by 1% each year. By 2018, we would achieve these increases by summing up more or less the required result. Instead, quite a lot is being raised in two years, and it is done in such a way that six times more money coming from excise duty is being withdrawn from the wallets of Estonian citizens than could be taken into account by people's interests. It's a story that might sound at the end, and I'll probably repeat that in some way. But before I got this information about 2018, I had a speech prepared that I was about to start. When it comes to the harmful effects of tobacco, the World Health Organization has in some way calculated that in the 20th century, a hundred million people have died in the world because of the effects of tobacco. And the World Health Organization can predict that in the 21st century, 1 billion people will die as a result of the effects of tobacco. However, there are quite interesting examples that tobacco can actually be useful. Thus, some time ago, ornithologists in England discovered that the nests of birds contain an extraordinary number of cigarette butts. That's the thing that got dealt with. I guess everything has to be dealt with, don't you think, just like we do in this hall, so do they. In short, there was also an investigation into the seemingly unnecessary thing to do, why these bones are in the nests. It turned out that there were no arthropods parasites in the nests with smoked bones. Even whole cigarettes were experimented and placed in bird nests, where arthropods did not disappear from the nests. But when there were bones, they disappeared. So every smoker can be sure that at least his lungs don't have ticks. Tobacco has been used by mankind for 4,000 years, and archaeological excavations have proven that North American Indians used tobacco even then. Before the 15th century, it was unknown to no one in Europe, but it began in Columbus. One of his ship's captains, with his telling last name, Pérez, smoked tobacco a few times in America and became a nicotine addict, for which he was sentenced to three years in prison after returning to Spain. Thus, the tradition of combating tobacco is very old, and from this point of view, it can be recognised that the first organisation to fight tobacco was an Inquisition. Sometimes smoking tobacco ended in death, not just because nicotine had a severe effect. Tobacco was also used in politics. At the end of the 16th century, Sir Walter Raleigh lived in England, who worked on tobacco growing in America and brought it to Europe. Greedy Spaniards wanted to take those cargoes away from him, a battle arose. Sir Walter won that little battle somewhere in the Atlantic. But the result: When he got home, he was punished with the death penalty for violating peace. So tobacco has a very different and long history. I'm afraid I haven't gotten to tobacco excise yet. Sometimes there may be an opportunity to talk a little bit more about this subject. But I would like to conclude by saying: we have been deceived by the explanatory memorandum; we have been given false information. I do not support this bill, and it is precisely because it is a crooked piece of explaining that applies to bill 280. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U435	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the 280 final votes on the draft. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U436	Mr President, on behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U437	Thank you. Please also bring this request in writing. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U438	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put bill 280 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. Draft 280 Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U439	Dear colleagues, let us move to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Valeri Korbi, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U440	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act has been discussed several times at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. It was very nice that representatives of the Ministry had also been invited, but the most wonderful thing was that representatives of the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises, the Association of Estonian Construction Materials Producers, the Estonian Turbine Association and the Estonian Chemical Industries Association also took part in the meetings of the Commission. I would say that this was an opportunity to understand better what the amendment of the law would entail. By the way, these associations submitted an application to Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, concerning a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic on 4 October 2012, which is essentially the basis for the draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act. The associations want an explanation as to whether there are grounds for initiating proceedings under constitutional review. Now a little bit longer than the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, A summary of the negotiating opinions shows that this draft has a strong impact on the country's economy from 2013 to 2015. In 2006 and not quite acceptable to our businessmen. Why? Firstly, as a result of the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act, environmental charges in the oil shale processing industry will increase significantly. The legislative amendment will amplify the already rapid increase in environmental charges in 2013-2015. It is true that the legislator has the power to direct the country's socio-economic development by means of tax levers, but it is equally true that, if we continue to do so, at a certain point, both oil shale energy and the oil industry will become uncompetitive under competitive conditions in an open market. Then, apart from the costs and impacts involved, the investments already made in these sectors and the write-off of several billions of euros will have to be taken into account. It doesn't matter whether it's public money or private money, it's a loss of the entire country's economy with its social implications. Secondly, as a result of the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act, the costs of raw materials, i.e. oil shale, in the oil shale production sector will increase by 2% in 2013, 5% in 2014 and 9% in 2015 compared to what was originally planned. In my opinion, the process of exponential growth of environmental charges is the same as building a house without a foundation. Thirdly, the important principle of assessing their economic and social impact before legislative changes are made has been forgotten in the process of patching up budget gaps. Fourthly, the government coalition has spoken about involving interested parties in lawmaking. Unfortunately, it has to be said that no interested parties were involved in the drafting of this draft, or even those undertakings were not informed of any changes. Fifthly, the fundamental principle of the functioning of the economy has been violated, I mean achieving a stable economic environment. Businesses, financiers have received a signal from our government calling into question investment decisions relating to long-term or large amounts. Finally, as a sixth point, I would like to point out that the producers and miners of construction materials have been put in a difficult position in connection with the proposed amendment to the law, because the principle of legitimate expectations has been violated. Businesses have taken specific environmental taxes into account for their economic activities until 2015. Unfortunately, the Centre Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U441	Thank you. Is there any further negotiations to be made? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. Let us move to preparing the final vote on the draft 282. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U442	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U443	Thank you. Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U444	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I will put Bill 282 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 47 votes in favour, 19 against and no abstentions. Draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 282 has been adopted as a law. The ninth item is closed. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. I see there's a lot of talking to cell phones in the hall. I would ask that we do not speak with mobile phones in this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U445	We will move to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U446	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the third reading of the Bill amending the State Budget Act 2012. 298 is the number of the bill. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 19 and 30 November and 3 and 4 December. a. No proposals were received from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 5 p.m. on 3 December. The Committee on Finance itself made one amendment containing internal redeployment of funds. Explanations are included in the list of amendments. The Commission made decisions (all of which were consensual): to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. a on 5 December, end the third reading and put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U447	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least two questions. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U448	Dear waitress, I am looking at the first amendment here and I see that the budget for the Ministry of Education and Research has been increased by EUR 340000. That's a lot of money. It has been said that it is necessary to acquire software for analysing data from the Estonian education information system. However, this would require public procurement, etc. Is this going to be over this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U449	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U450	Good questioner! I think that, for all sums exceeding the number prescribed in public procurement, there is a need for public procurement, and this public procurement may have already been carried out. When discussing the draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we also paid attention to the fact that 340000 is a large sum, and we were assured that it was not excluded that the various processes of preparing contracts were already behind us. But contracts will definitely not be concluded until there is a specific financial cover. And if a public procurement has to be made, it will certainly be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U451	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! My question concerns the fifth, or last, amendment and the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It has been said here that in the context of filling vacancies in the second half of the year, the payment of the premium to top specialists, the payment of contract fees to members of the panel of experts, etc., additional funding is needed to cover staff costs. The source of the cover is social protection allowances, i.e. fewer applications than planned were received for the start-up allowance for young doctors. How many of these statements were planned, and how many were received? I've heard only one statement was made. Is that true? Perhaps there is something wrong with the starting aid system that so few people are asking for it? This is a government initiative that sought good doctors in rural areas as well. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. Maybe there's a need to change that system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U452	You have absolutely the right information. It is true that a little over EUR 99000 has been earmarked for this, which really goes to the various top specialists who work specifically at the Ministry's disposal. This is a transfer of funds within the Ministry. You also asked me to clarify the number of applications submitted, and I can assure you that, on the basis of the true story of the information that the Committee on Monetary Affairs had on the draft, a request for starting aid for young doctors has been submitted during this period. We asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance to clarify this separately and he confirmed it. What are the reasons why these requests are one? Why haven't there been more? It must be said that this was not further dissected in the Commission, as it is not the subject of this draft. This should certainly be discussed separately in the Committee on Social Affairs or in any other committee. There may be various reasons. But the fact is, it's over the money now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U453	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U454	Good waitress! I have a question about the fact that the Environmental Investment Centre has supported the preservation of the diversity of nature through external support measures. I understand that mostly it has been about keeping the rusty beef in order. It has now become apparent that the beneficiaries of this support should pay taxes. I understand that with the budget we are adjusting it all, but doesn't that mean, however, that we should urgently change our tax law so that such national mistakes do not happen again with regard to beneficiaries? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U455	Starting from the first part of the question, the true story, the representative of the Ministry of Finance also stated that at the beginning of the year it was foreseen that this problem would arise. Thus, the planned EUR 100000 of possible future appropriations, which have now been transferred to a specific budget line in the context of the 2012 state budget procedure. True, the problem is that beneficiaries are under an obligation to pay a tax on the grant, and this is not in line with the former agreement. I do not rule out any future changes to this. But again, this is some other bill that we should come back to. At present, however, there must be no situation where some beneficiaries are treated more harshly than others. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U456	Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U457	Honourable waitress! My question, too, concerns the fifth amendment. You will allocate EUR 99071 to finance the staff costs of the Ministry of Social Affairs, i.e. to cover additional needs. That means you're gonna hire extra people or you're gonna pay someone more. Perhaps it would make more sense to channel this money to organisations of disabled people who are best aware of which sporting events should be taken part? Why increase the personnel costs of the Ministry of Social Affairs with this aim?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U458	I would like to clarify the first part of your question. You used formulas to take them. I am here as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and in this context I am not taking or giving anything. We are currently debating draft 298 and discussing amendments that have come to our table in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, which the Committee on Monetary Affairs has voted through and proposed to the large Chamber. So I'm your equal. As regards the other parties to the question, whether the alternative to which you referred should be considered, of course there could be one, the other or the third alternative. But today we can only deal with those proposals that have been received specifically in the form of amendments, or also in the form of letters, which the Committee on Monetary Affairs is also discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U459	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U460	I have a question that today is going to the final vote on the draft law amending the 2012 State Budget Act. This includes the second ESM contribution of EUR 29.5 million. You mentioned earlier that a number of things are likely to have already been the subject of a public procurement and are simply waiting for the Riigikogu's decision to pay the sum, such as the procurement of the Ministry of Education. How's the second ESM deposit going? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U461	Thank you, very good question! It's true! We have reached the third reading, before it has been the first and second reading of the draft. Your question is about an amendment after first reading. It is true that once we have adopted this draft as a law, we will thus order the government, or executive body, to carry out our will. In real life, this should in theory mean that the government uses its cash reserves to make a specific transfer or chooses another option. It's up to him, and we're certainly not going to write him that. It has the right to reserve, to carry out various financial transactions. This right has been granted to him, but he must report on his activities to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and also to the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U462	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U463	Good waitress! I ask about the fifth amendment concerning the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It states an additional need of EUR 99071 for wage costs. There are two sources of cost cover. There is a start-up grant for young doctors, which was applied for less than planned, and what my colleague Ester Tuiksoo referred to: participation in national and international disability competitions, the cost of which was lower than planned. How is EUR 99071 distributed between these two? How much was left unspent from the early-stage allowance for young doctors and how much was left unspent from the money for preparing and participating in the invasion competitions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U464	If you look at this draft, there is only one amendment at all, which, under No 5, provides for a reduction in certain real-life allocations of EUR 99000. The Commission did not have a separate discussion, nor did it subsequently need to examine how the amounts of initial and IV support for young doctors are allocated to the accuracy of the euro. However, there is a clear indication of the proportion of allocations and operating costs, how one will decrease and the other will increase accordingly. This level of precision was quite sufficient for the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U465	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U466	Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The question is again such a general one. One thing puzzles me a little. We are currently dealing with the draft law amending the state budget law with the precision of EUR 1300; there are all kinds of points. Here's my question. When we were presented with the draft law on the state budget as a whole, we have just dealt with the state budget law for next year, the problem arose that the state budget is not clearly understood by Members, as it is getting shorter and shorter. Now there is a change in EUR 1300. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, are you satisfied with the situation that the large budget that we are adopting for the year is not understandable to Parliament, and the government is not giving us this in any detail as it is asking us today to make changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U467	You see, the big budget is made up of small budgets. There is a large budget and there are small budgets. One large budget consists of smaller figures coming from different ministries. I do not think that EUR 1300 is a small amount, and I think we should be able to understand the budget for all the amounts it contains. If you ask whether the budget is readable and understandable, it is clear that the better the Estonian state is going, the more we have the opportunity to make investments and finance spending items in our budget. This usually shows that this is going to be thicker because we have more destinations where we can place money. The better the country is, the thicker our explanatory statement gets, and the thicker the explanatory statement gets, the more trouble it takes and the more time it takes to understand it. But over time, this criticism has been repeated in both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this large Chamber that it is difficult to read the budget, and this criticism has also been passed on to the Government of the Republic. Let us hope that they draw their own conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U468	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U469	Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I was also interested in this initial allowance for young doctors. It was a programme for which EUR 150000 was allocated this year and whose name was very resonant. Each young doctor could apply for a starting allowance of EUR 15000, so that EUR 150000 was the starting allowance for 10 doctors. One doctor has applied for it, i.e. EUR 135000 unspent. Together with the money taken from the insurgents, this budget line will be reduced by only EUR 99071. Where does the rest of the money go that hasn't been used? You don't move it in a budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U470	First of all, the replacement system for family doctors did not start in full this year, it is partly postponed to 2013, as we also read in the explanation of the specific amendment. That's one. Secondly, there is the possibility that if no funds are used and not transferred to the next year, they will simply go to state revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U471	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U472	Good waitress! I am asking about this slightly more general budgetary principle, which also rose yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This concerns the unintended use of budget money, in this case in a particular municipality or city of Tallinn. Most of us have received books issued by the City Chancellery of Tallinn. If you browse briefly, their aim seems to be to undermine the realism or credibility of the Estonian electoral system. In my opinion, this is not part of the local government's task. Have such things been discussed in the Commission and how do you understand this? Should we, in such cases, recover the sums, as well as in other cases where these are undertakings which are not part of the municipal remit, but which are financed from the city budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U473	Good Javier, you're putting me in a difficult position. You're asking about a subject that doesn't relate to a specific bill, and I feel like I'm opening up more and more of this Pandora Box, which is driving me to ask new questions. As for this discussion, I say I share almost a hundred percent of your opinion. I don't want to comment any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U474	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U475	Honourable waitress! First of all, I apologize for my previous question about your format. But I didn't mean you personally. I meant more of a coalition. But my question again concerns the support of young doctors. Perhaps you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will remember how much of this early-stage doctor's grant is foreseen in the 2013 budget? And was it a question that could encourage a more active application?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U476	I would be able to give you a brief answer right now that it was not a question. But since we still have a proper and constructive debate, I will try to answer you as well as the information at my disposal allows. We did not really have that in committee. When you noticed, a few minutes ago, Kadri Simson said he could quickly view the Internet and named EUR 150,000. If this is true, I do not rule out that this is true, then this is the answer to the question of how much this amount was. A later clarification said that one request had also been received by the Ministry. What are the reasons why they have not been presented more and whether anything should be changed, such a debate was not held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. However, we can certainly bring this up in the future, either in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in some other committee, such as the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U477	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U478	Good waitress! My question concerns the same thing that was the subject of Question Time today. We asked Minister of Culture Rein Lang about propaganda films made by reform parties in the framework of the MISA project. Is there a plan to get that money back? What can you say about that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U479	I'm not a minister, and I'm not in Question Time right now. As I said to good Taavi, I feel that we are starting to deviate clearly from our subject, and this is a slippery path. I hope you don't mind if I fail to comment on this question. I will only tell you so much that you will be able to ask me, at least in some context, on 12 December when you have tabled amendments. But it doesn't match today's bill, and I'd leave the comments at some other time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U480	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U481	Good waitress! My question comes from the question of one of my fellow Members. Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs often discuss local government budgets and expenditures? And when he discusses them, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you know that local authorities are independent? In order for their budgets to be discussed and their spending to be decided from there, it is first necessary to gain power there. If there is no power, I find it a little strange in the Riigikogu Hall to discuss the budgetary expenditures of a local government. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U482	Now it's happened that you're using me as a middleman to throw a ball between you and me. But it's okay. Well, let's get this debate over with. I didn't answer the question of Tavi Clothing for a long time, so I'm gonna try to keep it short for you, too. The first part of the question concerned the Committee on Monetary Affairs and is therefore adequate for me. You asked whether the Commission would discuss their financial situation with the local authorities, and I can say yes, it will. At the will of the accident, the local authorities were consulted literally yesterday. Yesterday was the meeting of the Monetary Commission with the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, and it became very relevant! Both sides, mainly the Cities Union and the Association of Municipalities, explained their understanding of the matter. The Ministry of Finance was also present and we had a very lively debate. All that other talk that should come to power somewhere and then somehow realize that power, let it remain for those in power in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U483	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U484	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In my opinion, you have always interpreted our domestic and working procedures more widely in your replies, ♪ you have never replied that this was not discussed in the Commission. I am not a member of your committee, but I understand the question of Taavi Kõivas and I am more than sure that this matter was not discussed in your committee. Taavi Rõivas, however, asked whether, if the municipality were to make certain costs which, in its opinion, were not related to the functions of the municipality, the State would somehow have to hold back those taxes or other funds. I found your answer frightening: you said, "Javi, I agree with you a hundred percent." That's pretty much what your line sounded like. I appeal to you as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs: are you really questioning the financial autonomy of local authorities or are you currently rejecting this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U485	Thank you, George! I'm gonna start from a distance. Under no circumstances must it be considered to be the view that financial autonomy must be called into question. That's pretty clear. But it's interesting when the glass is half full of water, then the pessimist says it's half empty, and the optimist is half full. When I listened to the question of Tavi Clothes, I didn't understand it the way you did. It seemed to me that Taavi Kõivas just opened the context. He pointed out a negative approach to the operation of the municipality in which he lives, and I agreed with this approach, but under no circumstances must we question the financial autonomy of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U486	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U487	I ask: how can you set a negative light on the activities of the municipality if you do not organise the life of local governments? But I am very pleased that you finally met representatives of local governments, although only now. I understand the state budget will be adopted next week. What kind of message did you give to local government representatives? Can they feel uneasy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U488	We have moved quietly to the issues that are far from this bill. You threw the ball into the air because you wanted me to assess the opinion of Taavi Rõivas about the local government where he lives and where, by the way, I also live. I'm tempted to answer, but I'm still not doing it. Believe me, I would like to talk about this for quite a while, but this is not about today's bill, and I believe you do not want to hear everything I have to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U489	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U490	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I thank you very much, and I would like to congratulate you for rejecting your claim, which was made in reply to the question of my fellow official, Taavi Rõivas, by answering my first question. I believe that this is a very strong signal to the local governments of Estonia and confirms that the chairman of the Monetary Commission does not go against the financial autonomy of the local governments and considers this constitutional provision and the constitutional idea very firmly established. When you answered Tarmo Tamm's question, you said that you would still like to remain within the framework of this bill. I ask: did you fail to say anything by answering these questions or by introducing this bill? Is there anything else you'd like to say about Bill 298 or have you all turned down?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U491	Did you get scrambled? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good bill! If you look at 2012 you will see that the Estonian state has gone down the right path in its earlier decisions and in the decisions that are still being taken. As in previous years, 2012 has had a balanced and well-targeted budget. This has given us the opportunity to carry out these investments and to pay the subsidies that are foreseen. Looking at our further steps in the context of 2013, we could say that if we continue to do so, this country will have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U492	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. We're opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Kadri Simson Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U493	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the State Budget Act 2012 is a good example that if the Ministry and the Commission are able to plan their work, there is no need to go to Delfi and other portals to complain that discussions in the Riigikogu prevent the adoption of laws. In fact, this draft was at first reading on 7 November, a short month ago. At the time, it was not yet known that our attempt to reduce electricity prices slightly in the coming year would find such uncompromising opposition and culminate in long night sessions. Nevertheless, on 7 November, the wish was announced that this draft should be dealt with quickly and that this urgent procedure could be completed by 5 December if the draft was adopted as a law at third reading. This shows that there is no urgent need to redefine plans, that there is no need to accuse the opposition of not being able to adopt one or the other draft. I am now throwing a large stone into the defense minister Urmas Reinsalu's cabbage garden, who has not come to the first reading with drafts concerning foreign missions, which will end this year. If you learn from older colleagues such as Jürgen Ligi, the changes to the 2012 budget will also be dealt with in the Riigikogu at exactly the speed needed. Now, the contents of the bill itself. We all know that the laws amending the State Budget Act generally specify the costs of the current year of ministries. The draft was brought to the Riigikogu with a number of clarifications, after the first reading these clarifications were added and after the second reading also. In the Commission, we also asked that if there is a final vote today, does this mean that there is no need for more ministries to specify their budget expenditure. The answer is no, that is not what it means. The government and ministers will still have the opportunity to make a distinction, and no one will take that opportunity away from them even if there is a final vote today. The budget shall remain the same in case of additional revenue and expenditure. It is true that the last question was answered by Mr Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that this budget is a wonderful budget, because it is a balanced budget. I don't know, maybe it was eloquent, but this budget is not a balanced budget. After changes, it will remain a budget for the budget deficit, as will be the budget for the coming year. We are saying that we cannot lower one tax or another, for example, we will not be able to reduce the electricity excise duty next year and soften the price increases by that, because otherwise our budget would be out of balance, because the budget is already out of balance. But if we come back to the content of the budget, indeed, one of the most important beams here is that Estonia will make a second contribution to the European Stability Mechanism this year. Already on 2 October, the government decided to allocate EUR 29.5 million from the reserve. This EUR 29,5 million will be added to the first instalment and two additional contributions will be made next year. In fact, the Ministry of Finance has planned three contributions. 29.5 million euros is 5.5 million euros more than would be necessary to reduce the excise duty on all Estonian electricity consumers to the minimum allowed in the European Union. The money needed for the ESM was found, I dare say, overnight. If necessary, we will make one deposit, if necessary, we will make two, and if necessary, we will make three contributions next year. The money is not out of Estonia, at least when it needs to be sent to distressed European countries. The ESM contribution has indeed been included in the 2012 State Budget Act Amendment Act. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U494	Just a little bit more than a thorough budgetary procedure. At second reading, our Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was in a very embarrassing position. He had to come to talk about the amendments that came to the table in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. They said, however, that they were covered by state secrets. The officials refused to tell the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs what the very large amount of allocations meant. So we asked the Minister of Finance if he knew what they meant. The Minister of Finance said that the ministers were not interested in this. We have received a draft which the ministers were not interested in and which is not spoken about to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is true that, after this embarrassing situation in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this Chamber, we got together and improved the fact that the ministers were not interested and the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were not wanted to speak. This hole has been repaired, but without interest. Here we must acknowledge Taavi of Rõivas, who was the most noisy advocate of Riigikogu rights without him would probably not have done this extraordinary sitting. But I think that a situation where the budget debate says that ministers are not interested in something and are not told to the Riigikogu is totally inappropriate. I'd like to talk about the little changes that come out. We have seen from different budgets that a great deal is being done with a resounding title, with no content. Finally, the young doctors' starting allowance was brought to the table. We all remember when this fine title was produced during the summer that the doctors' stay in Estonia has been resolved: 150,000 euros have been allocated to ensure that young doctors agree to go to the country. Something is missing in this initiative, somewhere a mistake has been made. If young doctors are really wanted to stay in Estonia, it should be concluded that EUR 150000 was allocated and only one young doctor has applied for this money. The expectation was already very low in the first year of implementation. They only talked about ten doctors. But now, by changing the 2012 budget, we are clearly aware that laws have been passed in the Riigikogu that do not work, with just a sounding title. Personally, I have to confess to the sin that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs I could not ask that if the starting grant for young doctors was EUR 150000 and only 15000 have been granted, why would it be necessary to go after the sports allowance for disabled people in order to increase the wage costs in the Ministry of Social Affairs? If determined by specific figures, there does not appear to be a need and this is likely to require clarification. I will just say as a reply that very often there will be such a thing in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that there will be no talk about the content of the drafts, but about Tallinn. This is inappropriate! Those who would like to talk about Tallinn would behave most correctly if they gave up their Riigikogu mandate and went back to Tallinn City Council. This is the right place to talk about Tallinn. There are quite a few people who have the opportunity, if the capital seems more attractive and exciting, to leave here, to give a place to a replacement and to go to Tallinn to deal with Tallinn's questions. But once again on the draft we are discussing: the ESM contribution shows that there is money, and the money would also be to lower the electricity excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U495	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U496	Thank you very much. Any more negotiating requests? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. One amendment has been made to draft law 298. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U497	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U498	Madam President, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that, I ask for a ten-minute break to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U499	Ladies and gentlemen, the break requested by the Centre Party Group is over. One amendment has been made to draft law 298. The Steering Committee proposes that this be fully taken into account. I shall put to the vote an amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 delegates in favour of the amendment, 6 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The amendment has been examined and I will put the draft to a final vote. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U500	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U501	Madam President, before the final vote, the Centre Party is asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U502	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the Centre Party Group is over. Now is the time for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put the bill 298 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 49 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 1 abstention, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U503	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act 256 amending the Act on the Organisation of Defence Forces and the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Call chair, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U504	I'll take eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U505	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U506	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, When I process all draft national defence laws, my heart roars with joy because, at that point, even in the most foggy and harsh winter or autumn darkness, it is as if the sun shines, even though we process these drafts in the deepest hours of the night. National defence is an area for us where an extraordinary but very important cross-party consensus has been achieved in Estonia. Recently with my colleagues in Germany, several gray hairs came to me, because it is sad to see the old European countries, in particular Germany, which has historically been our strategic partner, give in to their national defence today. I was seriously puzzled by the fact that the German state no longer has a headquarters capable, militaryly speaking, of organising German national protection. In addition, they have drawn up considerable armoured capabilities; their national defence system no longer prioritises military service and other such nuances. They contribute very much to missions that must, of course, be recognised in the case of the Germans, as they did not participate in foreign missions for very long decades. I don't understand why they didn't do it because of their deep shame. Now to Estonian affairs. The draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces and the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Services Act is, by its very nature, a very important draft law. He introduces some factors which once again confirm that national defence is becoming one of the priorities in Estonia, allowing us to make operational changes when national defence needs it. There was, of course, one problem in the procedure of this bill, which might not be so well understood by the MPs in the Riigikogu as well. If the defence forces are to be used to realise police objectives without the right to use force, does this mean that if someone would want to think differently from the popular positions at the moment, the army will be brought upon him until the shovels are launched? No, there's no such threat. But it is clear that in a small country it is reasonable to use the resource if a country needs to do so, especially if this resource is important to us in the sense that we are working on developing it. If the police need help, they can be confident that the defense forces will be able to support him if he fails to perform his duties in some strange way. Secondly, I would like to mention the subject of cyber defence in this bill. This bill subordinates Estonia to the Commander of the Estonian Cyber Defence Forces, making some changes to its position within the structure of the Defence Forces. I think this is a very sensible step, because Estonia has been so forward-looking and innovative in cyber defence in the world, that Estonia currently also has a NATO cyber defence centre. This means that our own activities in this area have been so purposeful and reasonable that NATO has considered it right to trust us and bring its competence centre to us. In particular, I would like to point out that a unique cyber defence alliance exists in Estonia as one of the key structural elements of national defence. This means that in addition to developing national cyber defence, voluntary competences are also involved. I welcome this double, because it is possible to guarantee national security twice effectively with volunteers. Winston Churchill once said that any reservist is a double citizen. It is very sympathetic for me to have this law, but I think that our party's position too is that if we can create some important new competence that gives us the opportunity to be better than before and does not lead to very large-scale resource-intensive investments, this must be done. To confirm this, I dare say that a special operations centre has been set up in Estonia, which is also directly under the command of the Commander of the Defence Forces. It is important for each country to have its own special forces structure. Speaking of a little more than 20 years of the history of the Estonian Defence Forces, we have matured so much today that we have a large number of professionals who would like to go deep in their military careers and service. A special forcesman from all over the world is a truly respected and beloved military man. Special Forces can also be used properly in cases where the world also needs our modest help in solving problems. Our aim does not have to be to participate in military missions, which are literally difficult, with a large human mass. The existence of a special army gives our defence forces the opportunity to develop themselves and to serve a little better within Estonia. It also gives us the opportunity to be dignified as a country when we are required to intervene quickly, operationally. What is still important and sympathetic for special forces is that they are planned for us in this form of so-called development, is that they can now be used at a higher level, i.e. on various training missions, since they are in any case specialists. I dare say that already now our specialists are doing their job here and there in the world. We sincerely welcome the fact that our people can also realize their wisdom and skills in countries and nations that need our help. In any case, I hope that the parties will continue with the same national defence tactics. I thank everyone who will vote positively in the final vote on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U507	Thank you very much. Any more negotiating requests? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have come to the final vote on this draft. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U508	Thank you. I ask for ten minutes of recess before the final vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U509	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U510	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the Centre Party Group is over and we are going to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft law 256 amending the Act on the organisation of the Defence Forces initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act. Please take a stand and vote. By 56 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, there are no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U511	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us move to the next item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U512	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law 299 at its meeting on 3 December. Many amendments were received on the draft: 30 amendments were received from the Centre Party Group and three amendments were made by the Commission itself. Procedural issues were discussed in the Commission, the possibility of disregarding the proposed amendments, the possibility of including amendments in the list as a single amendment, as well as the voting on mutually exclusive amendments and the process of drafting amendments by the Commission. The Commission examined the amendments tabled by the Centre Party Group and decided not to take them into account. These are included in the list of amendments. The Commission made three amendments to the draft. The first contains a number of technical specifications, which include the addition of the title of the draft. The second amendment provides the basis for the creation of a land tax information system from the beginning of 2015. The third amendment (listed in list 33) solves the shortcomings identified by the Court of Justice in the Income Tax Act with regard to deductions from income of non-resident natural persons. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Chief Specialist Tanel Ruusmaa, Head of the Financial Management Department of Local Government Sulev Liiv, also participated in the Commission's discussion. The Commission also briefly discussed the letter from the Chancellor of Justice concerning the exemption of land tax on land under domestic land on a compound land. The Commission proposes to conclude the second reading. This proposal was supported by 6 and 4 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. The third reading should take place at a further meeting on 7 December. I also thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U513	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U514	Thank you. Good waitress! The Centre Party Group tabled amendments to the draft, which would increase the proportion of income tax received by the municipalities to the extent that it would indeed cover the part needed to compensate the municipalities. Of course, they were not taken into account by the coalition and, in their opinion, would lose the state budget. In fact, this step would not reduce income tax receipts, as this change would improve the livelihood of both cities and municipalities. I ask what's so bad that the coalition stands against it, its teeth cross.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U515	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U516	Thank you for your question. In fact, the government's draft covers the loss of income from local governments, which is directly due to the exemption from the land tax on the land under home. The fact that your proposed amendment to increase the local government's rate does not reduce the state budget revenue is difficult to understand. Obviously, the part of the 2014 state budget affected by your proposals for improvement would certainly be affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U517	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You said local authorities wouldn't lose money. In absolute terms, they do not really lose, but it is known that at least 15 municipalities still lose financially. When this bill was processed here in the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister promised that no local government would lose. I ask, a good waitress, with which, for example, the municipality of Vihula, who loses some EUR 66000 when the land tax exemption is introduced, should compensate. Imagine that a small municipality has such a tax hole! How is the municipality supposed to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U518	With absolute precision the formula that excludes pros and cons is a little excessive to demand. In fact, these local governments, which are here in the table you are looking at, and where there are accounting minus in there, should be 14 municipalities, the main part is the city of Tallinn and the municipalities of Harjumaa. As has been said, so precise a formula is a little excessive to demand. Most municipalities actually experience a slight over-charge, which is not a big one, but in this table there are still positives for most of them. Take Viimsi, for example, who are bigger losers. Last time, I know, in the budget plan for next year, the land tax will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U519	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U520	Thank you very much. The recent presentation mentioned the fact that the Chancellor of Justice issued a letter of formal notice on the compensation of land tax, in which he asked the chairman of the committee to analyse and contribute to the resolution of the problem of owners of land-based homes for the purpose of the compound destination of residential and commercial land, which is linked to the partial non-payment of land tax. My question is how far the Committee on Monetary Affairs has come with this analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U521	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U522	Thank you. This issue was discussed recently by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but quite briefly, because at this stage we have turned to the Ministry of Finance for possible solutions so that we can make further decisions. The Chancellor of Justice does not refer to constitutional problems, but he does ask us to look at this issue. The initial information is that, since these countries are for a compound purpose, a possible change in the principle of co-ownership also means a fundamental transformation of the principle of co-ownership when it comes to resolving this problem. It's complicated, but that doesn't mean we don't have to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U523	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I read in § 103 of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act that the commission prepares a draft for the second reading of an explanatory memorandum containing information relating to the procedure of the draft, such as the reasons for taking into account and disregarding the amendments and the views of the author of the draft. Unfortunately, I cannot find them in any way in the explanatory memorandum, and I am therefore forced to bother you with this question. I would like to ask for an oral statement on Amendment 9 as to why it was not taken into account, which was the position of the initiator of the draft, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U524	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U525	Thank you for your question. In the Commission, procedural questions arose from a number of aspects, so the Commission even considered it necessary to contact the Legal and Analytical Department and received answers there. Since this whole process, the procedure in the Committee on Monetary Affairs went through a very thorough review of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I assume that the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the Committee on Monetary Affairs complies with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U526	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Now I quote the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia and say that Estonia has done well. We have a balanced state budget, we have a simple and transparent tax system, we have a corporate tax exemption, we have a relatively low individual income tax, so we have created all the conditions to be a sensible, nice and good country. We do not have real estate tax, which is very bold and strongly promoted by the Social Democrats on the left, but we have a clear and transparent land tax. My question is whether it was discussed in the Commission that these stupid games around the land tax are already beginning to emerge from the sense of justice of the citizen's society. If this debate was not there, I will also ask when the Commission intends to discuss it, because with all this, we disgrace Estonia's normal and transparent tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U527	Thank you. I disagree with you. For example, I have information published here in Delfi on 3 December that the tax receipts of local governments for nine months increased by 7.5% compared to last year, in Tallinn as much as 8.7%. Tax receipts show very good results! So I do not think this criticism is quite appropriate. Good tax receipts do not only concern local authorities, and the country as a whole, as at 1 December, tax receipts are 93.6% of the annual budget. As far as I know, this is one of the best percentages we've had here in recent years. Compared to other European countries, we have had very good tax receipts because of the reasons the Prime Minister has been talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U528	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U529	Thank you. Good waitress! I remember that when your coalition partner IRL came up with this idea before the elections, the Reform Party did not agree very much with the exemption of the land under home, but later you went along because it was probably the most tempting thing to do to Tallinn. After that, it turned out that Tallinn, as you have claimed, will win, but small countryside will lose. How do you comment on that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U530	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U531	After all, this is a good thing in itself if one group also highlights the potential risks that one or the other tax change entails. I think it was absolutely necessary that our group dealt with this matter very thoroughly (I think it was in June 2011). For all tax changes, in particular tax incentives or exemptions, it should be taken into account that they also entail certain effects and risks. As has been said, we have dealt with this issue thoroughly. There is no reason to blame us for being superficial.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U532	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said about replacing land tax with property tax. The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, in its report more than ten years ago, proposed that the Estonian Parliament and the government bodies amend legislation and practice. I have a question for you about how you feel about replacing land tax with real estate tax. Or does it have no future at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U533	Thank you, my good colleague. Why don't we have a little more discussion on this? This could also be discussed as a matter of national importance. At the moment, I am here as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on very specific draft issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U534	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U535	Thank you, Madam President. A good rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs! As you yourself have felt, the tax exemption for the land under home has made entrepreneurs a disservice. These 14 municipalities have already shown that there are more, for example the city of Haapsalu does not receive its income as planned. There are other municipalities that are forced to increase the overall cost of land taxation to 2.5%. This is particularly the case for businesses. As a representative of the business party, how do you tolerate such a thing? In fact, you brought that land tax rise to life yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U536	If the city of Tallinn freed the land of the dwelling without being forced to do so by the state and raised the rate of the land tax on commercial land to compensate for it, it will, of course, affect the business environment. As I said, it was hardly the country that forced it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U537	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U538	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have this general question: have you taken into account the experience of European countries in the work of the Commission? If so, what example do you or the Commission think is best for Estonia that Estonia chose this direction for itself? Was there a debate on the experience of countries, including Estonia, or was there not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U539	No, there was no such discussion. But to inform you that for a long time, our tax policy has been moving in the same direction as the global trend, and the OECD has no major reproach on us. Of course, no tax system has been set up and everything can be improved, but the OECD is generally satisfied with our tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U540	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U541	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The Ministry of Finance has decided to set up a national information system for the management of land tax, which should be completed by the end of 2014, but cannot be used before 2015. In the meantime, municipalities have to find out about their own wisdom about the area of the homeowners, as well as the area of their homeland, for which data has so far been pretty confusing. Does the State intend to compensate the municipalities for the amounts needed for this intermediate clarification and work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U542	Thank you. After all, for years the local government has been dealing with land tax data and submitting them to the Tax and Customs Board. I admit that there are problems here and that is what the National Audit Office referred to in its recent analysis. But the creation of this same register or information system can begin when this law is passed. It will not start until the end of 2014, but in dealing with it, I believe, the country will start earlier. That would be a big step forward. Of course, this argument would also support this step if the draft could be dealt with quickly and the force of the law. As has been said, this information system, which integrates the data of the land registry and the tax administration, the data of the taxpayers' register and the population register, is in itself a very big step forward. In the future, it will help local governments to save more money by multiplying it by the amount currently spent on land tax administration. Indeed, land tax is one of the most costly tax types for administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U543	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U544	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my previous question. My main concern wasn't whether it was so much in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. I simply pointed out that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there should be an explanation of why this was not taken into account, as well as the views of the initiator of the draft, as to why he does not support it. I still can't find them in the explanatory memorandum for Amendment 9. Maybe they're so well hidden, but you'll find them and quote them. If you do not find information to quote, could you explain why the Commission did not support Amendment 9?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U545	Thank you for your question. Just because you didn't like my answer, I can't help it. You might like my answer, you might not like it. But really, I asked myself in the Commission, I do not know whether, specifically for Amendment 9, the initiator of at least one of the amendments that you have made. The question was this: how do you expect to cover the loss of public revenue, what will be lost in 2014? Your representative has replied to me that the change you have proposed will help to meet the promise made in establishing a tax on the land under your home country to compensate for the loss of money. That wasn't an answer! I even asked for a record that I did not receive an answer in the committee to any of my questions that I put to you on your suggestions for improvement. How can such a proposed amendment be supported if the proposer does not answer any questions? Personally, I was left with a lot of confusion about your suggestions for improvement. I did not get answers to my questions in the Commission. That was one reason why I could not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U546	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U547	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There is one thing I would like to clarify. In answer to the question of analysis, you said 'Delfi'. I understand that the same entertaining Internet portal has analyzed land tax receipts. Has the State commissioned the relevant studies from Delfi and is Delfi's in-depth analyses now the basis on which the State relies on its decisions? If this is the case, when in-depth analyses will be ordered from, for example, Gossip.ee, which is also an entertaining portal, or young women from the portal. net?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U548	Thank you. I didn't understand that question at all. But if you refer to the announcement in my reply that the nine-month tax receipts of local authorities have increased by 7.5% compared to last year, this is official information. This has nothing to do with entertainment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U549	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U550	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. performer! I read the report of the National Audit Office and it has raised such a problem that the state has not set up a system for collecting land tax, which would allow municipalities to provide land tax data in a uniform and verifiable manner. As a finance expert, how do you comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U551	Indeed, the state has so far managed to collect land tax so that there has not been a single information system, a tool that it will create since we have approved this law. But that's not why the land has not been collected. I remember from my practice, having worked in the tax administration, that the lack of a unified system created an additional burden not only for the municipalities but also for the tax administration. In any case, it is a pleasure that the country is seriously addressing this issue and that register will finally be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U552	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U553	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I ask about the compensation that the state intends to do to local authorities, not in full, but some mechanism has been developed. This compensation has been decided by increasing the share of personal income tax for local authorities. This share of personal income tax was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4% in summer 2008. Now it will be raised to 11.57%, although the cut at the time was allowed to be covered back, it will be raised again to 11.93%, i.e. to compensate for the cut at the time of the depression. Shouldn't both be done: to compensate local authorities for the abolition of the tax on the land under their residence and to return this tax percentage back to that level? I understand it requires additional resources. Could it not be a source of cover, for example, the progressive income tax advocated by the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U554	Thank you. The Law on income tax has been spoken of for years, but I have not seen any drafts. I think you've promised to file a bill, but you haven't been able to do it for some reason. Are you unable to draft this bill, or have you lost interest in the subject? As far as graduate income tax compensation is concerned, I am not quite sure whether this is possible, because graduated income tax takes a very different form. You can also imagine the law on progressive income tax, which has excessively high rates, while very many exceptions, maybe also the holes in the law, as was the case with the sales tax in Tallinn. In this case, it may be that the tax is collected less than under the current Income Tax Act. By the way, in Estonia, there is a pro rata increase in income tax per capita as compared to, for example, those countries with progressive income tax. So I'm not at all sure that progressive income tax will cover this part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U555	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U556	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I base the second question on your sentence that Estonia is moving towards other European countries in tax matters. But why did I even ask my question? If I take up a table drawn up on the basis of a survey by the Council of Europe, which sets out all the sources of local government revenue, including taxes, there will be a problem here. Let me give you a little example. Estonia: local taxes of 0.1%, 1% plus fees, overall subsidy is 91%. Almost no other country is at this level, all of which have a percentage from 5 to 30 to 40.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U557	I do not believe that Estonia is moving in this overall direction at a fast enough pace. I know, for example, that Sweden will reduce income tax to 22% from next year, we have 21%, and we are only going to reduce it from 2015. In fact, at such a slow rate of reduction in income tax, we may fall short of others in tax competition. Sweden can finally beat us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U558	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U559	Dear waitress, Indeed, EUR 6 000 may seem a small amount, but for a small municipality it is quite a large amount if he misses it. As we know, 13 or 14 municipalities lose on the basis of this bill. Didn't the coalition consider any way to remedy this injustice in sharing the so-called 'roof money' and allocate this missing part to these municipalities next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U560	The state budget also allocates funds for local government investments 'has always been allocated to the state budget. The current draft, as I have said many times, covers the part that the country is missing. Indeed, some municipalities, with the exception of Tallinn and some municipalities of Harjumaa, are in favour here. In this sense, the state has, in any case, fulfilled its promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U561	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U562	Good waitress! One part of the media has seen propaganda in particular in the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. The title of the law is said to be more important than the content and the title of the law, in general, has only become content in the course of the Commission's work. Others claim that these accusations are unfounded. The debate will continue. But I have another question for you. However, if the content of the law is more important than the name, would it not be appropriate to combine this law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, with the Land Tax Act? In essence, however, the same specific area is regulated very clearly. Is it appropriate to regulate it under a number of different laws? In general, we have strived to ensure that we do not make individual laws, but ideally that the Riigikogu deals not with one law or another, but with harmonious legislation. That's one way to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U563	That sounds nice, homeowners' land tax exemption. The Committee on Finance even addressed the Legal and Analytical Department for evaluation, which said that this title was fully consistent. You can also, when you finally complete the progressive income tax law, call it 'The law on graduate income tax, which makes the Estonian people happy and solves all the problems facing Estonia'. This is not prohibited by the Rules of Procedure Act. There you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U564	Thank you very much. Please ask another question, Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U565	Honourable waitress! The much-spoken land tax exemption from the land under discussion was certainly put in place by your coalition partner in the coalition agreement as early as 2011. However, the information system of the state, which is essential for this purpose, and which is needed primarily by small municipalities in order to calculate taxes and also land areas, will only be completed by the beginning of 2015. As a wise man, you realize that this delay is of no benefit to anyone. Please tell me why this information system is being carried out so long. Why didn't this work start earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U566	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U567	Obviously, this is a rather complex system, and it is a big deal if the country can do it. The point is, however, that data on the land registry, population register and other registers will be pooled into a single database. It's a pretty big job. I think you, as a minister, have encountered such complex information systems and you realise that it is quite difficult to bring together data from the most important registers in the country in order to clarify land tax obligations. It's not easy, I admit it. But it's a big deal when it's done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U568	Good performer! In my previous question, I argued that there is no system for collecting land tax, which you said, which is why there is no land tax. It would be a parallel to the fact that even though traffic rules are not being complied with, cars are still driving. Hence my question: Are we going to take the course of not making these rules, though these taxes are somehow coming? That's the first part of the question. The second part of the question is as follows. In the last few days, you have, in every event, cursed the progressive income tax and the fact that the relevant bill has not been submitted. At the same time, I remember very well that, as Minister of Finance, you were very lenient and favourable to graduated income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U569	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U570	That is absolutely not true! I've never been soft on progressive income tax. However, we had to deal with the issue of corporate tax in the government, which was linked to the fact that at some point it became clear that our corporate tax system is in conflict with the European Union directive. But this issue was resolved later, as the judgments came to the Estonian state favorable. It was a corporate tax problem. I've never been soft on progressive income tax. You can check public sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U571	Good waitress! There has really been a lot of talk here about progressive income tax, every time you're on the remote, there's a lot of talk about it. You have repeatedly accused the Centre Party that we have not tabled this bill or at least do not want to talk about it very much. That's how we put together a file for your birthday at the last night's session. When I ask my question, I'll put it on your desk. Inside are the progressive income tax bill that we have drawn up and presented. So it's not quite true that we haven't dealt with it. But I'm still asking about the compensation and the percentage of personal income tax that local governments were cut during the recession and allowed to restore. This proportion was 11.93%, lowered to 11.4%. Does the government coalition, which includes the Reform Party and the IRL, and you also represent in Parliament, plan to raise the percentage of personal income tax that goes to local government back to 11.93%?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U572	The local government's revenue base is important for both the coalition and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Yesterday, too, we discussed the issue of the revenue base with the local authorities. This is an important issue and needs to be discussed in the context of various drafts, but the current draft is aimed at compensating for the loss of income generated by the land tax exemption for the land under home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U573	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U574	Honourable waitress! They've already asked me twice about the Vihula parish. I'm gonna ask you a third time. As a result of the amendment, they will lose EUR 36000. Their budget is a little over 1.5 million, so it's still a very large sum for them. I didn't hear from your answers why Vihula's parish wasn't going to be compensated for this loss by an additional amount from the compensatory fund. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U575	Similarly, one might ask why there are a number of municipalities that have a calculated plus in this table. It is still forecasts and it concerns 2014. I am quite sure that, both this year and next year, we are now discussing the state budget, too, but all other economic forecasts are more positive than the official forecast of the Estonian state, according to which the state budget has also been made. In fact, tax receipts are better than expected this year due to economic growth and sound fiscal, economic and fiscal policies. I believe that next year's tax revenues, including those of local authorities, will be higher than we thought when we made the latest economic forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U576	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U577	Honourable waitress! So that your words about how eagerly you await a progressive draft income tax procedure in the Riigikogu do not appear hypocritical, perhaps you can assure us here that when such a draft comes to the proceedings, you and your partymates will not press the button on the voting board to reject it at first reading, and you will allow the discussion of such a draft at the three readings provided for in the Rules of Procedure to express your position in the final vote? Can you give us that promise today on behalf of the coalition, on behalf of yourself and on behalf of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U578	Honourable questioner, once this draft has been submitted, we will discuss and reach a position. But now, unfortunately, we have not even reached the point of discussing the substance of the draft. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you presented a proposal to amend the Income Tax Act to tax over EUR 1000 in a calendar month at a rate of 26%. But you want to make this change in the current Income Tax Act, where the tax period provided for is a calendar year, with the exception of special advantages and dividends. You hardly meant to tax dividends and special advantages with progressive income tax. Eiki Nestor said in this Chamber that you think dividends should be taxed as they are now. In order for us to begin discussing this issue at all, my first suggestion is: make a separate draft law, but do not attempt to arbitrarily insert any progressive income tax principles into the current proportionate income tax law. This is simply not possible, these are two completely different tax systems!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U579	Thank you very much. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U580	Dear waitress, First of all, I really want to congratulate you that you are not limited to short answers, that this was not discussed by the Commission. The second plus is definitely that you've ordered a legal analysis. At the same time, I would like to say that in the one year and nine months that I have been a member of the Riigikogu, there has not been a day in which Tallinn and other Estonia have not been opposed when discussing laws and drafts. I have not been elected from Tallinn, and I am not asking the question because I am worried whether the city of Viljandi will suddenly lose anything. I think people sitting in this hall have to stand up for the whole country. The prospect of 14 municipalities losing a large amount of money is not quite normal. Or do you think otherwise? Do you think every vigilante only protects the interests of his own county?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U581	Once again, the same issue was also discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained this problem quite thoroughly. Indeed, this is a situation where the formula obviously does not guarantee 100% accuracy. The compensation mechanism does not create the situation that everyone gets 100%. Some towns and municipalities have a small plus and some have a small minus. But in this table you're using, it's just a prognosis. This is still the 2014 forecast, based on today's knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U582	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U583	Good waitress! I noticed a second-rate question at first glance, but I would still like the opinion of a top specialist like you. On the proposal of the Minister for Finance, a change in taxation of foreign pensioners was included in the draft. Its purpose is to eliminate the inconsistency of the Income Tax Act with European Union law, which was established by the European Court of Justice in Case C-39/10 European Commission v Republic of Estonia in its judgment. The European Court of Justice ruled that Estonia must allow the use of tax-free income and additional tax-free income in the event of pension, also for non-resident pensioners whose taxable income in Estonia is less than 75% of their total income. How good do you think it is to resolve such a question in the Land Tax Act and what arguments could justify such a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U584	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U585	The draft that we are currently dealing with is not only an amendment to the Land Tax Act, it is also an amendment to the Income Tax Act. Yes, it is a good question in that sense that it is not a problem that the draft essentially solves. But I don't see the big problem of solving this case here either. In fact, the rule of law must resolve the problems arising from the judgment as soon as possible, and if that is possible under the current law, we could do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U586	Dear waitress, Two days ago, the first debate took place on land tax accounting problems. It was organised on the basis of a report prepared by the National Audit Office. A number of important comments were made, and I will briefly present one of them. The tax exemption applicable in 2013 for domestic land was developed as a matter of urgency, as requested by the government association's agreement. No analysis was carried out as to whether the law could be applied in its planned form at all and how high costs it could be implemented. How could it have happened that such an important law, which we are still talking about today's draft, was, after all, directly passed without any prior analysis? Ladies and gentlemen, you are constantly demanding analyses from the opposition, so why didn't you ask for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U587	I may be able to argue with quite a lot of the claims made by the National Audit Office, but this debate in the Special Committee on State Budget Control took place at the same time as we had a meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, and unfortunately I could not participate in it. But I got these materials yesterday, and I'll get to know them thoroughly. I believe the National Audit Office is right, but it is worth looking at a lot of details in such a way that perhaps this is not the case, and perhaps some of the reproaches are debatable. But, yeah, I didn't attend that hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U588	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U589	Honourable waitress! The Chancellor of Justice has sent a letter of formal notice to the Committee on Monetary Affairs concerning the problems of people living in a house where offices are also located. The Minister of Finance promised to give his opinion on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice before the Riigikogu starts discussing compensation for land tax. I hear this has also been mentioned in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Would you please open up the Minister of Finance's position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U590	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U591	The Commission also addressed the Ministry of Finance with the same letter. But I do know that the Ministry of Finance has already begun to deal with this issue. However, as I have already said, this is not a constitutional problem. The biggest concern at the moment is that the legal regulation of the principles of co-ownership must also be reformed in the current law. This will make it somewhat more difficult to resolve this issue. This is the initial information of the Ministry. But I am quite sure that we will soon be able to discuss the solutions proposed by the Ministry in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and we will certainly inform you about the results here in the big Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U592	Dear Commission waitress, I constantly hear you say that, when an amendment is tabled, it must be known who it concerns, what the cost is and where the revenue comes from to cover it. However, you yourself refuse to answer the question that the draft law on land tax has been accompanied by a tax credit for foreign pensioners. I understand that the Estonian state has been lost in court six months ago, so far six months have passed, and now this solution is put into a non-relevant bill. How many pensioners does this involve? How much tax revenue does the Estonian state fail to collect and where will the budget be covered by this change next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U593	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U594	In fact, even today, non-resident pensioners, whose income in Estonia is more than 75% of their income, receive an exemption. The question was for those whose income in question is less than 75%, this court case solves this problem. Indeed, the Estonian state lost its way in this dispute and must solve this problem as is the rule of law. The judgment must be enforced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U595	Dear waitress, I will continue on my first question. Among the important observations of the National Audit Office are such conclusions. The State has not set up a system for collecting land tax that would allow municipalities to provide land tax data in a uniform and verifiable manner. On the basis of the national registers, the law is not applicable in the desired form, as the registers are not combined at such a level that the application or non-application of the land tax exemption for each parcel is automatically reflected in the registers. This means that implementation is technically not prepared and so there is no analysis of how much this system costs the country at all. How is it possible, then, that we are even discussing such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U596	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U597	That price still exists. You can read in the explanatory memorandum that EUR 475000 will be allocated to the establishment of the information system. The claim that there are no information systems at all is not quite correct. There is a register of tax payers and taxable persons, there is a population register, there is a land register, there is a land register, a construction register, a business register, a state property register. The question is simply that such an IT solution, so that the data in these registers can be used automatically specifically for the collection of land tax, is currently lacking in the Estonian state. But it has begun to be created. The money will be allocated to this, and when we adopt the law, there will be a legal basis for creating such a database.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U598	Honourable waitress! The draft we are currently discussing concerns a great deal of local authorities and we know that municipalities have also called for regular land valuation. The last regular land valuation was in 2001. There is also a requirement that this should be done every seven years. Has this issue been discussed, or has action already been planned, for the land to be assessed regularly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U599	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U600	Dear colleague, we did not discuss this issue this time in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U601	Good colleague! Were there representatives of the Cities Association and the Association of Municipalities at the meetings of the Commission? I'd like to know their opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U602	In particular, we did not have separate meetings within the framework of this draft. It is true that the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments have made their proposals to the Government during the procedure for the draft, and we have a pretty good overview of whether they are taken into account or not. Yesterday's debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs focused on the financial management problems of local authorities, but of course we also dealt with the issues of the local government's revenue base more broadly. In particular, we have not met with these alliances separately when dealing with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U603	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U604	Good Commission waitress Aivar Sõerd! As has already been mentioned here today, the audit of the National Audit Office, which has just finished, speaks quite thoroughly about the problems of the Land Tax Act. One thing he points out is that, according to the Land Tax Act, a large part or all of land tax on land is to be exempt from land tax. The National Audit Office points out that, for example, the Ministry of the Environment has established card applications in its administration which should help, but at the same time these applications are uneven and their results are not always correct. Despite these card applications, there are unfortunately very significant differences in the way in which local governments regulate nature conservation land, grant land tax exemptions and concessions. What conclusions did you reach in the Commission on what could be done to improve the country tax situation in order to eliminate such inconsistencies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U605	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U606	This is, of course, an important problem and needs to be discussed, but the subject clearly goes out of the framework of today's draft. The question did not arise in the Commission and we did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U607	Dear waitress, There should be so much honesty in you that you acknowledge that, although you have come to defend the amendment concerning pensioners, you do not know how much the cost of this will be in the state budget for next year and where the source of cover will come from. It makes you quite think that in the final phase, a change is added that does not know the cost and the source of the cover. But my second question, too, concerns the breach of this bill. The Ministry of Finance had one and a half years to develop a compensation scheme. Now we have a bill for the first reading that wants to change the wrong law. It turned out that it was not noted that the law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, should be amended. The wrong law came out! Do you think it's okay for the Ministry to be such a mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U608	No, I am pleased that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has done its work very substantially and has corrected this technical error of the norm. It is more in our favor that we have discovered this mistake and that we have corrected it correctly. As far as taxation of non-resident pensioners is concerned, as far as the Ministry of Finance has been concerned, I have understood that this effect is quite small. As we know, the law makes a difference as to whether the income earned in Estonia amounts to more than 75% or less than 75% of the person's income, so the amount cannot actually be large. But I'm going to set the record straight, and I'm going to ask the Ministry of Finance what that amount is. Let's find out. I think it's pretty small, but I don't know. At the same time, there are no other options for the State, since this is a judgment of the Court of Justice. In any case, the judgment must be enforced if Estonia is the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U609	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U610	You did not discuss the issue of land protected by nature, but you certainly discussed the other problem referred to by the National Audit Office. The fact that, unfortunately, national registers do not connect to each other and municipalities cannot collect certain data from national registers. The conclusion of the National Audit Office's audit is that a completely new web-based information system must be created and probably quite a lot of money spent on IT applications that cannot be used after the launch of the national information system. What instructions did the Commission give when you prepared this draft law? Secondly, how should municipalities identify landowners whose residence according to the population register is on the taxable property? How is it determined whether a building corresponding to the characteristics of the dwelling is located on the property? And finally, how will it be established who actually lives there, no matter what kind of records?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U611	This bill, which we are discussing here, specifies how to calculate land tax. The way in which land tax data are collected on the basis of data from different registers is not directly regulated by law. I agree that, as long as the state does not have a system that combines data from the population register, the land register, the land register, the construction register and the business register to obtain land tax data, this is a problem that needs to be solved. The state will deal with this in any case and the draft that we have on this table will provide a legal basis for creating such a database. The state will also provide a lot of money for this, but this money will be well invested. This system will make a major contribution to the cost of land tax administration in the future. I admit that collecting land tax is more costly than collecting other taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U612	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Enn Frontland, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U613	Ladies and gentlemen, I follow the proposal of a good colleague, Aadu Black, and his ambition to always see a more general picture behind the details, and to move in the direction of dealing with harmonious legislation. Maybe I need extra minutes, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U614	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U615	First of all, a few words about the situation we have in Estonia today. The land tax is governed by the Land Tax Act adopted in 1993, the most important implementing acts of which are the procedures for implementing the Land Tax Act and the list of data to be provided by local authorities to the Tax and Customs Centre of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the procedures for submitting them. According to them, the land tax is collected by the State and fully paid to the local government after the land is located. The amount of land tax payable by the land owner depends on the price of the use of the land, the rate of the land tax imposed by the municipality, the exemptions and advantages provided for by law, and the additional tax incentives imposed by the municipality under the law. In the summer of 2011, we adopted an amendment to the Land Tax Act in the Riigikogu, the purpose of which was to exempt homeowners from land tax. The amendment is based on the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association of the Party and the programme of the Estonian Reform Party's Government Union for the years 2011 to 2015. According to the law, since 2013, the landowner has been exempted from paying the land tax on the property owned by him or on the property of the land in which he or she is established, provided that the building on that land has its residence according to the population register. The scope of the exemption is up to 0,15 hectares in densely populated areas and up to 2 hectares elsewhere. Domestic owners do not have to submit an application for exemption from the land tax; the exemption must be applied automatically, based on data from national databases. Therefore, in order to apply the exemption, before submitting the data to the Tax and Customs Board, the municipality has to compare the land use data with the population register data and, if the landowner is resident in the taxable country, to determine whether a building corresponding to the characteristics of the building is located on that land. If, on the basis of the foregoing, the exemption can be applied, it is necessary to determine whether the rural unit is located in a densely or diffused area and to calculate the tax-free part accordingly. The calculation of the exemption may be made much more difficult for municipalities in a number of specific cases which may exist in the case of land eligible for the exemption. For example, a plot of land has a combined purpose, i.e. not only residential land but also another purpose to which the exemption does not apply, e.g. 10% is commercial land. The part of the parcel of the butter is located in a dense part of the area, but in a distributed area where different levels of relief are to be applied. A part of the parcel may have a protected zone which provides an additional exemption or concession. If the area under home is more than 0,15 hectares in the case of dense settlements or 2 hectares in the case of diffuse settlements, it is necessary to determine to what extent the protected zone is linked to the so-called "domestic" tax-free land. This cannot be done, however, because the borders of the tax-free country of the home country have not been fixed anywhere. Neither the explanatory memorandum nor the additional material of the draft Land Tax Exemption Act of the homeowners indicated which developments are needed for the implementation of the Act and the costs involved in the creation of these developments. It was pointed out that only the tax authorities need to make some IT changes, which in practice meant that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board included a single data field in the form for submitting the information required from local authorities. During the audit of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance acknowledged that no comprehensive forecasts of the costs needed to implement the Act were made prior to and shortly after the adoption of the Act. The draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax was initiated by two political groups of the Riigikogu who submitted it to the Riigikogu proceedings on 16 May 2011. On the next day, the Riigikogu Board sent a draft to the Government of the Republic for an opinion, which supported the draft at its meeting on 26 May. Four days after the meeting of the Government of the Republic, a letter from the Minister of Finance arrived at the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 30 May. The Minister of Finance had supported the draft at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, but his letter referred to a number of issues that should be resolved in the future procedure. On the next day, however, the Riigikogu decided to finish the first reading of the draft and send it to further readings, the draft of which was somewhat supplemented. The law was passed, as you remember, on June 16, perhaps exactly one month after it was submitted to the proceedings. Since the draft was initiated in the Riigikogu and not in government agencies, it did not pass the normal round of coordination of drafts, during which different ministries and other relevant authorities could have submitted their written opinions on the draft. The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, which dealt with the bill as a commission, did not ask the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an assessment of the effects of the legislation, whose competence is to analyse the effects of the draft law. Thus, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu did not analyse the possible impact of this amendment. Today, we process the law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Law amending the Income Tax Act 299. The Estonian Centre Party Group has tabled 30 amendments to the draft, of which at present I would like to mention only one and particularly important one. We are still of the opinion that the share of income tax received by local authorities should be restored to the pre-cut level of 11,93%. Only then could we talk about compensating for the land tax exemption. Thus, the share of income tax received by the municipality should increase to at least 12,13%. Only in this way would this bill be realised by compensating for the land tax exemption authorised by the government. In fact, however, this percentage should be higher than this. I will give you an example of the city of Narva-Jõesuu. According to the table sent to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Narva-Jõesuu loses EUR 2556 despite the compensation provided for in the draft in 2014. In order to fully compensate for the land tax exemption, Narva-Jõesuu City, together with the restoration of the amount of income tax received by the municipality, should increase to 12,16% the rate of income tax received by the municipality referred to in Paragraph 5 (1) of the Income Tax Act. That is why we have tabled 30 amendments, one of which addresses this particular problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U616	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. Speaker Marika Tuus-Laul, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U617	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of fun with the exemption from the tax on the land under the house. In particular, the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, and yet the right number of reform parties who could not agree to the exemption of private individuals from the land tax, may be sympathetic. Almost was, if you remember, losing the briefcase, because he didn't think it was rational to implement the populist pre-election promise of the IRL. After all, just before that, he had recommended the implementation of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in Tallinn, when Savisaar asked for additional money to meet the additional obligations, to increase the land tax rate from 1.5% to 2.5%. The man, however, was finally tamed by a long-standing dream of how to get away with Tallinn and Savisaar. There is no choice here, whether it is the law on gender equality or whatever. Unfortunately, the squirrels, Res Publica and now the IRL, are still on their backs, and they don't even remember who's been on their backs again and again. All these steps are, for some reason, through history, remind you of the new electoral order written to avoid even Arnold Rüütel, the massive increase in the number of members of the Tallinn City Council during the peak period of the mast, the former splitting of Virumaa into different electoral circles and the many other vile schemes that paid their own hands. The Centre Party has already achieved an absolute election victory several times in this capital city and can rule entirely alone, but in East Viru County it is a problem that there is not even an opposition to fight with. The exemption from land tax is also planned as one step in order to seize power in Tallinn in 2013, and the aim is to celebrate the measure. In this situation, the coalition, the teeth of the cross, in spite of any differences, must stand together and swallow all contradictions. But poor friends didn't realize that a politician with great abilities and Savisaar, who saw seven steps ahead, would outsmart them again. Even before the draft was approved by the coalition in the hall of the Riigikogu, the capital itself took the decision to lose land tax on smaller plots and to increase the tax on larger plots. This is something Jürgen Ligi doesn't want to swallow right now, forgetting that he himself once suggested it to Savisaar in an explanation letter. And back on your back again! Actually, it's even worse. If Tallinn has won with this technique, then in Estonia's 59 rural municipality and city the land tax was increased at the top of the crisis, because the government on the way to the richest five countries cut off the local governments' money and has not compensated for it so far. Now, if the tax on the land under home is abolished, then the problem is huge. Now it is like trying to compensate for something and raise the rate of income tax received by municipalities to 11.57, which is not even the pre-masusal 11.93% level. In time, when the cut was made, the former level was later allowed to be restored, i.e. lied, because it is now called compensation for land tax, and there is no mention of repairing the former one. Jürgen Ligi can only consistently and arrogantly chop so that you should be happy that there is nothing to be compensated for, because he does not really think that the abolition of land tax is necessary. However, the entire battle plan was ultimately lost, as it turned out again that Tallinn won and the others lost, which was not the purpose of the matter. In some places, politicians with an IRL background even went so generously that they lost land tax before the Riigikogu elections, saying that they would lower home expenses. Now we see what really happened, how many times home expenses have increased! In one of the Jõgeva rural areas, for example, the land tax was abolished in January 2011. This reduced the budget and, of course, the costs as well as the activities relevant to the population to some EUR 13000. I will give you a few examples: in the middle, the money was reduced to 14% for municipal road maintenance, 23% for pre-school education, 22% for social protection for children with disabilities, as much as 30% for health care, 17% for birth support, 25% for school support, 12% for funeral allowance, etc. Finally, the parish workers had to spend the week at home on unpaid leave. That's how far I made populist promises! I mean, it's like giving it with one hand, taking it back with the other. In fact, everything bad will come back to itself someday. Last week, when we tortured Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligit with questions, he had every other answer that he did not like this Centre Party in Tallinn and how to get rid of the central party power in Tallinn, so that they would try next year. I don't know what that anger is. It's like something's still missing, nothing's been put on. The land under public authorities will now be exempted from the land tax. It is hoped that it will eventually paralyze the capital, because it is here that most of the public authorities are located. But it's actually coming back! Tallinn is doing free public transport, and I'm afraid you're not going to get much of the VAT you're missing. When newspapers are written and we look and hear from other media that there is something different in the air, revolutionary, something is almost breaking and changing, that people have opened their eyes and are beginning to understand the real face of right parties, then here Toompea has a more icy atmosphere than ever before. They're willing to sit the nights, but they don't want to meet the people, nor do they want to meet the Centre Party, because it's not allowed to do so in a stout, defiance, and anger. I have been here in the Riigikogu for ten years, and I recall that while members of the coalition in the past also demanded and criticized ministers, the current situation is completely the opposite, just loyally filled and worshiped. The current situation is that, on the coalition side, I say frankly, there are no politicians here at all who dare to decide and do something. That's why we have this dead end, that's all. Let us see how this Bolshevik slogan is the property of all the people of the earth! ' Now the election is actually working. The cold winter is ahead, the warm price is rising, the price of electricity is rising. Let's see how people swallow it. I think people are definitely full of fighting spirit and things are not the same. Try to sense it, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U618	Please, colleague Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U619	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Since perhaps all members of the Riigikogu who closely monitor us via a computer or television have not yet met the audit of the National Audit Office that has just ended, I am happy to introduce it to you. The audit just concluded by the National Audit Office showed that the landowner cannot be certain that the state will charge him the correct amount of the land tax. The National Audit Office identified calculation errors in all audited municipalities, which required the landowner to pay more or less of the correct amount of the land tax. While the calculation errors or the misinterpretability of the law have not led to significant losses for the State, some taxpayers have benefited from unjustified advantages or had to pay higher land tax than necessary. Under the Land Tax Act and its implementing legislation, the Land Tax and Customs Board calculates the land tax on the basis of data provided by local authorities. The National Audit Office analysed the activities of 13 municipalities when submitting the data necessary for calculating the land tax to the Tax and Customs Board and examined whether the state has organised the land tax system in such a way as to ensure that the land tax is properly accounted for and collected. The National Audit Office found that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, knowing the Ministry of Finance, does not perform its statutory task of verifying the land tax information provided by the municipalities. The responsibility for the accuracy of the calculations necessary to calculate the land tax has been shifted to the municipalities. Although all income from land tax is transferred to the municipal budget, the land tax is a state tax for which the State is responsible for the collection. The State has not provided uniform databases or applications for calculating land tax for the use of municipalities. The costs which must therefore be borne by the municipalities themselves are not reimbursed by the State. According to the Land Tax Act, some land subject to conservation restrictions must be totally or partially exempted from land tax. Although the Ministry of the Environment has established card applications with its administration, they should help to identify the existence and extent of restrictions, but the data there are not always accurate. Despite the use or non-use of these card applications, most municipalities have made a number of errors in the calculation of exemptions or benefits resulting from nature conservation restrictions. The exemption from the tax on homeland from 2013 will bring much more work for municipalities and cities. The draft law on the exemption of land under homeland was developed in the Riigikogu as a matter of urgency. No analysis was carried out as to whether the law was applicable in its planned form at all and what costs it would entail. On the basis of the national registers, the law cannot be applied in its desired form, as the registers are not combined at such a level that the application or non-application of the land tax exemption for each parcel is automatically reflected in the registers. To date, the Land Administration has been entrusted with the task of creating an online information system that will have to be completed by the end of 2014 and can only be used from 2015. Before that, each municipality must find ways to identify landowners whose place of residence according to the population register is situated on the taxable property. Moreover, it must be determined further whether the building corresponding to the characteristics of the dwelling is located on the property. Only then can the tax exemption be calculated. In many cases, money must also probably be spent on various IT applications, which will become completely useless once the national information system is launched. The tax and customs office's land tax reporting system does not allow the calculation of the amount of land tax for municipalities due to the exemption to be excluded from the calculation on the basis of the available data. Just as no one knows exactly how much money and time it takes for municipalities and cities to calculate the benefits and what administrative cost savings might be if municipalities were to exempt from this complex and often manual comparison of register data. The calculation of each land tax exemption or concession has, according to different parties, made the land tax proportional to one of Estonia's highest costs. According to the National Audit Office, the state must consider simplifying the administration of land tax, restructuring the tax in such a way that the data necessary for calculating land tax can automatically be obtained from the state registers by the Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board should only be asked to provide information on their tax rate and local tax incentives. The National Audit Office also dealt with the payment of land tax on land that has no owner or known user. The Ministry of Finance will pay land tax on behalf of the State for such countries. The calculation of the land tax for land without owner or user is not regulated anywhere and therefore the amount of the tax cannot be verified. The Ministry of Finance has never wanted to discuss the accuracy of the calculation of land tax for such countries with the municipalities, but has always accepted the calculations submitted. As a result of the audit, the National Audit Office made recommendations to the Minister of Finance, the Director General of the Tax and Customs Board, the Minister of the Environment and the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments. Ministers and the Tax and Customs Board focused their responses on the information system MAKIS, which will be in place from 2015 and will solve some of the problems discussed in the report. At the same time, important activities to calculate land tax until 2015, including the calculation of tax incentives for homeowners from 2013 onwards, will continue to be carried out by municipalities and the necessary tax data for the State will remain incomplete. Land tax is the second largest source of income in rural municipalities and cities after personal income tax. All rural municipalities and cities together earned an average of EUR 46,9 million per year from the land tax in 2007-2011. This accounted for 4% of their total revenue and 7% of their tax revenue. Therefore, the audit of the National Audit Office, as a summary of the activities of the National Audit Office, is also very important for us to follow closely here in the draft law procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U620	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U621	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As you may know, I am a journalist, and that is why I trust our media. Therefore, looking back, I always browse various media publications to find out how events were reflected a few months or years ago. I'd like to quote you some old news, some good old news, I'd say. The first news comes from 1 June 2011 and has been published in the Capital and Tallinn Postimees newspaper. So quote: 'The Ministry of Finance and the opposition of the Riigikogu find that the amendment (I mean the release of the land under home country from land tax. Y. T.) allows every piece of land to be converted into a dwelling because people start making random notes. The draft does not grant land tax exemptions to people living in a housing unit. The complaint is that the draft does not offer a way of compensating municipalities for the loss of tax revenue. Exemption may also be granted if the person has rented out his or her house or apartment. The contested draft is a short title: the Land Tax Exemption Act for Homeowners. A section of the draft law states that the taxpayer receives an exemption from land tax in his population register residence: up to 1500 square metres in city and village and two hectares in land. 'In politics, compromises must be made and, in that sense, I also said to the government by commenting on the draft, that since it is very important for the people with whom I want to cooperate, I do not give it an unsupporting position, but I disagree in very many paragraphs,' said Ligi on Monday before the Riigikogu. ' We all heard it, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, now my computer's crashed!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U622	It's okay to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U623	'Last year, Tallinn turned to the Administrative Court with a claim against the Ministry of Education and Research regarding the requirement for the implementation of the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act (PGS) and the financing of the related obligations, which means that the amount of millions of euros will be added to Tallinn. In addition to former responsibilities, municipalities have to cover, for example, the administrative costs of private schools, in accordance with the new PGS requirements, as well as to find money for the acquisition of resources necessary for teaching and engaging in activities. However, Tallinn's claim was rejected in court on the grounds that the city's revenue base is sufficient to fulfil the additional obligation imposed by the PGS. However, as the income base of the municipalities has actually decreased significantly in recent years, Tallinn asked the Ministry of Finance for an explanation where they saw the possibility of finding cover for the cost items required by the PGS. In his explanation, the Ministry of Finance praised the financial situation of Tallinn. 'Tallinn's financial position is good in 2010,' states the explanation. 'The city's core business results are the second best of all time (only in 2007 was it better). Therefore, in 2010, the City has achieved greater financial capacity to invest and serve its obligations. '' In the explanation, there was a statement, but at the end there was such a recommendation: 'The city's good financial capacity is characterised by its capacity to increase its reserves by EEK 0.3 billion in 2010. 'The explanation further states that the income of the municipality does not have to consist solely of state subsidies and tax receipts: 'KOV will be able to find additional revenue. For example, the city of Tallinn is able to increase revenue from the collection of land tax. In Tallinn, the land tax rate is 1.5%, but the law would allow them to increase it to 2.5%. 'End of quote. For clarification, Jürgen Ligi is signed. You know, honourable MPs, I am a relatively new member of the Riigikogu, but I have serious concerns about my health and yours, because the situation is, I would say, schizophrenic. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U624	No, no. 'Last week, the Ministry of Finance filed objections to the draft. Nearly admitted that some of the sentences he wrote in this letter in person. "In addition to adding certainty to existing owners, the tax exemption also increases the price of the land and reduces turnover and thus the access of young families to housing,' says Nearly signed. 'It would therefore be useful to clarify in the draft explanatory memorandum why and in what cases the purpose of limiting home expenses outweighs the availability of a home as a good. '' Reading the draft that we are discussing today, I have come to the conclusion that the majority of the questions raised in July 2011 remain unresolved to this day. Namely, I, who owns a cottage and who owns a land, and my parents, who have two apartments, can declare their real estate a home and a homeland of that land, and no one can control it. When we asked Mr Sõerd questions about numbers today, we learned that there is no specific formula for making these predictions. Which is no wonder. We cannot imagine and there is no formula for how the number of homes in Estonia will increase from the moment we receive this land tax exemption because of these 'false' writings. I have another quote to read to you here. It was published on 5 June 2011 again in the newspapers Capital and Postimees. The news comes from the time I was the assistant mayor of Tallinn and we went to court because the basic school and upper secondary school law gave the city of Tallinn new tasks. We thought that this was not quite fair, because at the same time the municipal income base was also cut. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U625	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U626	Thank you very much. Next, please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U627	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft land tax exemption for the land under home is quite crude and hastyly prepared. As the audit of the National Audit Office reveals, the system for collecting land tax is flawed, and the problems with collecting land tax were most encountered in land-use restrictions. Some taxpayers have, as a result of miscalculation, had to pay a higher land tax than necessary or have received unjustified benefits. The state has left quite a lot of work and responsibility to local authorities, including making calculations. As a result, the wrong calculation is largely dependent on the payer of the land tax itself. However, land tax is an important source of income for local authorities, with EUR 47 million per year in 2007. By exempting land under the land tax, it was not analysed whether the national registers even allowed the law to be implemented in its desired form. In order to apply the exemption, the local authority must compare the land use data with the population register before submitting the data to the Tax and Customs Board. If the landowner's place of residence is in the taxable country, it must be explained from the construction register whether there is a building on that land. If, on the basis of the foregoing, the exemption can be granted, it must be determined whether the rural unit is located in a land of dispersal or dense settlement, and then, accordingly, account must be taken of the tax-free part. Neither the explanatory memorandum nor the annexes to the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax mention what developments are needed for the implementation of the law and how much the costs may be for the creation of these applications. In the course of the audit, the Ministry of Finance has recognised that no comprehensive forecasts of the costs needed to implement the Act were made before or after the adoption of the Act. However, the law was already adopted in June 2011. Since the law was initiated in the Riigikogu, not in the Ministry, the law did not pass through the normal circle of coordination of ministries, during which the parties and ministers could complete the draft with their proposals and opinions. The opinion was also not requested from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, whose competence is to analyse the effects of draft laws. Based on this explanatory memorandum, the amendment was driven by the heavy tax burden on Tallinn's homeowners and the debate was always focused on Tallinn. At the same time, there are no problems with the implementation of the law in Tallinn and there are no problems in other major cities. Problems arise in smaller municipalities, where there are quite a large number of homeowners, both in densely populated and sparsely populated areas, whose properties are predominantly larger than the scope of the exemption. The Minister of Regional Affairs should have pointed out such shortcomings in the process of dealing with the law and sought solutions to the problems. Following the adoption of the legislative amendment, the Ministry of Finance proposed that it is appropriate for the state to set up a state information system for better administration of land tax. This has only been planned by the end of 2014, which means that this information system will not be available before 2015. For so long, local governments will have to find out their own wisdom about the area of the homeowners as well as the area under their home. I also asked the Commission's rapporteur why it was so late to produce the correct information system. Since the coalition agreement already stated in 2011 that such a tax exemption would be granted for the land under homeland, all the efforts to create an information system could have been implemented in good time. Local authorities are once again entrusted with tasks here, but, as usual, the necessary costs will be borne by the municipalities and no funds will be allocated for these tasks. This, of course, was confirmed by the Commission's rapporteur. One sad consequence is that the tax exemption for the land under home is accompanied by an increase in the price of up to 2.5% per year for land taxation in the municipalities. Unfortunately, the first victim of an increase in land tax is farmers, who are again forced to pay more land tax, because, as a rule, councils have already taken such decisions quickly. This increase in land tax is permitted by § 5 (1) of the Land Tax Act. One of the major shortcomings of this law, which the National Audit Office pointed out, is that the land tax does not have to be paid for the land occupied by the public. If part of the land owned by the landowner is in public use, this part of the land tax must be exempted. However, the law does not specify what to mean by public use. The local authorities also have a legitimate question as to whether the land tax should be exempted from the private land occupied by the public road or from the land under the sandy beach in public use. It has been established that the calculation will cost the owner more than the land tax payable on that land. At the same time, these issues increase the administrative burden on local authorities. Once again, we find that if the municipality does not have this kind of support in the form of an information system, it will take more effort to find out the data itself. So, in fact, this law is well crude and not properly prepared. I'm sure you can't be in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U628	Thank you! Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U629	Ladies and gentlemen, who are in this Chamber and who are watching us in our rooms, good verbatim readers, perhaps in years' time! The minute I'm on the remote, it's 4:15 in the evening, it's 2012 and it's December 5. On 16 June 2011, the Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the Land Tax Act, which, from 1 January 2013, exempts the owner of the land tax or, in certain cases, the user of the land from the payment of the land tax from one special purpose unit of the built-up residential land or land income. The scope of the exemption provided for in the Land Tax Act is linked to the surface of the yard in respect of the land for profit, says the law. The application of the above-mentioned exemption reduces the income from land tax paid to the local authority. As a result of the above, the rate of income tax received by the local government unit is increased to the extent that the income foregone by the local government unit would be covered by the land tax exemption. I quoted what has been said about the legislative amendment made in June 2011. Today we have December 5, 2012. Look, ladies and gentlemen, how we make laws and how we formalise the content of documents that are required to carry Estonia forward! We are here today to correct, amend and improve the same vile law. According to the National Audit Office, local authorities make mistakes in calculating land tax and the state does not have a single database for the transfer of land under the land tax exemption. So that's what the National Audit Office says today. Let us recall what we had on 16 June 2011. We had had Riigikogu elections, where the Isamaa and Res Publica Union came to the electorate with their leaflets, which said that they would lower their home expenses. I now have an invitation or a brochure signed by our esteemed speaker, Ene Ergma, in my home archive, which says how life in Estonia will get better in the near future, there will be no tax due on the land under home. In addition, countless kneels, socks and stockings were distributed, I don't know if the panties were among them, in any case the scarves were definitely. I remember even people close to me in South Estonia saying that they don't know who to choose now, look, Mrs. Ergma promises us tights. I said no pantyhose, there's scarves. Some people went and chose this party. Now we will settle these same electoral promises in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Behind me is the same lady who made the promises who are leading the hearing today and says that she does not know what to do then, how to improve the law that the National Audit Office has judged to be disastrous, if not destructive. The audit of the National Audit Office states that the draft law on the exemption of domestic land from 2013 was developed as a matter of urgency. That's right, we remember that. Because this was required by the agreement of the government association, as the National Audit Office says. According to the audit published by the National Audit Office, no analysis has been carried out as to whether the law is in its planned form at all and at what costs it can be implemented. The audit also finds that the exemption from land tax, as requested, is not yet applicable on the basis of the national registers. The registers are not combined in such a way that the application of the exemption or the application of the tax on each parcel is automatically reflected. Look at the criticism the National Audit Office has made! We have heard some criticisms made about the National Audit Office in the presentation of a number of people and waiters from this very remote area, so that we can take these audits and presentations seriously. I would say this: the National Audit Office is the same competent body as the Riigikogu, where we are currently performing, and the audits of the National Audit Office must be taken very seriously. I think we have reached a pretty dead end when the audit of the National Audit Office states that there are major problems with the calculation of land tax in the Estonian state. Now I would like to ask the same government department, the IRL, who came out with a slogan 'Home expenses down! ', ask: where have you come from? I don't want to start quoting those Ene Ergma-signed ballot boxes again, so you can choose us, then life gets better. Now we see that, because of making this life better, it is necessary to sit at night sessions in the Riigikogu and somehow try to correct this flawed law, these crippled, I would say, invalid decisions that this party made in order to get votes in elections. However, the catch of votes remained rather low. Now these slogans aren't going anywhere anymore, because everyone's realized it was a total bluff. The National Audit Office directly says that the state has not set up a system for collecting land tax that allows municipalities to provide land tax data in a uniform and verifiable manner. This raises the question of the responsibility of the Speaker of the Riigikogu for making electoral promises, where the responsibility of the party comes out with promises that the Riigikogu will have to adjust, correct, hoist and somehow change after the elections, so that we can put this thing into practice, perhaps somehow, so that people are not deceived as much as they were intended to, and give a slightly better impression. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening with the so-called change in electricity prices from the new year and the opening of the so-called electricity market? Look what's happened! There's been a nationwide panic. Right here is IRL Minister Juhan Parts. He can't answer from this remote control why such a feltful program has been implemented, why people have been lied to about the electricity market opening up. This is simply an increase in the price of electricity. The same was true of the land tax change programme. This has simply been about cheating on voters. For this IRL would be asked to answer before the Estonian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U630	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm asking for eight minutes for my report!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U631	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U632	Aivar Riisalu next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U633	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Political struggle is an indispensable part of society. It is sad to see a change in the tax system as a result of the political struggle. With all due respect, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia has been against Andrus Ansip for seven years, whom I have already quoted here in the Riigikogu today, I say that in my heart we can agree that Estonia has done well. In spirit, we can agree that we have a balanced state budget and that we can look at others in Europe with a clear eye. It can be accepted that there is a tax exemption in the business environment if profits are reinvested in a company, i.e. new jobs are created, a company is developed. You only have to pay the tax if you take out the profits, and that makes perfect sense. Fortunately, as a car collector, no car tax has been imposed in Estonia, it would excite me very much. Fortunately, no real estate tax has been imposed in Estonia. A lifetime of honest working as a person I really do have some real estate. But the land tax has now turned out to be one of the most horrible temples of recent years. The land tax was, until then, a perfectly reasonable, intelligent, transparent and clearly understandable tax, although as landowner, I might ask why the state is raising money from my land at all. But the state needs money, and as loyal citizens, we all understand in the same way that it is very reasonable to satisfy the state's monetary needs through such a clear tax. But look what's happened. What has happened is that no one wants to speak out loud any more: as a result of the quarrel between people with a high political position, the country has become essentially unstable, even a little ridiculous in some country. After all, the political forces who are trying to apply the land tax to their own populist electoral promises have, in fact, gone against basically what we are largely seeking in the case of our tax system: to make it simple, transparent and stable. I'm sorry, but the land tax fight has been anything but stable! So, what did it start with? It started with the idea that some wise guys suddenly thought that we were going out for an election with the tax exemption of the land under our house. Of course, I admit that in some areas of Estonia, people paid too much for the land they lived in. Let's say that the land tax on the good colleague Erki Arrow Kadriorg was really tough. But I am saying that the state is setting the tax price for the land, but the state did not use this instrument, or the state acted comfortably. He didn't need to get involved. The local government, for whom this tax base is of great importance, naturally used its own chance. And then he went to each other to get away with it, and there was a tax exemption for the land he lived in... I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U634	And then the struggle between the central authority and the Tallinn City Government, which has now ended by the fact that certain structures of the state will no longer pay the land tax. The government, of course, has the right to impose these rules. But these rules are being established, we are being honest, however, mostly in the direction of Tallinn. I admit directly and honestly, because I am speaking here as a citizen, as a member of the Riigikogu who has the mandate of several thousand people: I am concerned. I'm worried that a narrow circle can distort a normal world because they make decisions, they make laws. Much has been blamed for the fact that a relatively high land tax has been imposed in Tallinn. After all, this had a clear purpose in its day: to channel the city of Tallinn. I admit that one of my habitats is located in the centre of Tallinn, and indeed, more than two metres wide and over two metres deep, a limestone transche was made near my house to bring water and sewerage to me and to a few other isolated houses. I admit honestly and directly that I myself could never have done this, but the city of Tallinn managed and channeled this region. Now they're complaining that he promised to lower the land tax when it was done. Yes, he did. But has the state fulfilled its promises? I am no longer talking about Tallinn alone, but about Estonia as a whole. In a crisis situation where the income base of local governments is under attack, this struggle has gone between the state and local governments, which is like two separate camps. Let's be honest, that's not really the case. Local government is simply a local body for people to organise their lives, so that there is no endless anarchy, so that I build where I want, do what I want, see for myself how I can. The confrontation between local governments and the state in this land tax struggle has, in my view, become clearly ugly. I think the funniest thing I've ever seen during my relatively modest political career was when the Tallinn City Council was made bigger in this very hall so that Edgar Savisaar would not prevail. So what got better than that? In fact, a whole amount of money was spent, and this is the most ridiculous example of a struggle between local government and central government. I'm pretty unhappy because it looks like the land tax triangulation isn't over yet. I now ask, in turn: should the draft be initiated so that, for example, the defence forces' polygons could be exempt from land tax? Who are we kidding? Are we cheating on NATO? After all, we have promised to put 2% of GDP in defence costs in a fair and uniform manner. In fact, we have gone to this path where the list could continue indefinitely, continue and continue again. Ladies and gentlemen of both the opposition and the coalition! A uniform, transparent and reasonable tax system could be an integral part of a stable country. I want us to do less stupid things in this area and put less of each other away, because people expect us to have a clear and beautiful picture of the world!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U635	Yeah, sure. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U636	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U637	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I cannot fail to make a brief introduction to this law. This morning began with some very sad news for me. The sun shines, the snow's out, it's gonna be a great day, and there's gonna be this whole night of hard-working enthusiasm, but then you're gonna open up Delfi, and maybe you're gonna find out that in ten months of this year, there's gonna be a lot less kids born than in ten months of last year. If I remember correctly, 500 less children. On the contrary, 1,000 more people are dead than last year. For four or five more years, this should be positive, as the birth age is currently those generations born in the 1980s. Then 23,000, 24,000, 25,000 people were born each year in Estonia. The time when it began to occur in the year 12,000 came to 1993, 1994. Since the end of 2007. And maybe we can find out that the demographic hole comes 5 to 6 years earlier than what could have been predicted. What is the reason? This can only be one: the country will be empty of people, people will travel abroad and stay there for a longer period. It is those from which Estonia could expect children to be born that drive. Today I had another meeting here in the Riigikogu. Older people are here, one pensioner's union. I asked a question that I have become traditional at meetings with people this year, at mass meetings. I asked my fingers to show how many of their close relatives have left Estonia. When I asked for it in May on Sillamäe, where 23 people were present, over 30 fingers were shown. There is a slightly worse situation in Ida-Virumaa, not a little, but a worse situation than in Tallinn, but in Tallinn there were about 25 people present and there were 16 fingers up there. People disappear, people go away. One very serious reason is the laws we adopt here in the Riigikogu and the way we adopt them. That's one reason we're taking them in one side of the brain. Because if you look here, it's actually one brain model, the only question is that one side won't let another partake of the law. If you amputate a human half-brain, how incapacitated will he become after that? I have been here many times since 1999 and I can say that the coalition and opposition cooperated in the IX Riigikogu. At present, this is not the case and draft laws are adopted, which, as the report of the National Audit Office later shows, have not been thought out, for which no analysis has been carried out. But what do you want with the law that starts with this bill? You know, this is one of the most interesting papers I've ever had on this table. This is the explanatory memorandum to draft 51 at first reading. You probably remember that. I'm going to read a paragraph right here, just like it says here. Try to understand that these are not my language errors, I will read to you what has been written here by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance above all. So there is now a quote: 'The draft will lead to the abolition of land tax and the promotion of home ownership through a number of positive socio-economic effects. The draft reduces the pressure on the social welfare system, the number of children linked to the number of square metres of housing and the preservation of indigenous housing. " If you can understand anything from this, I congratulate you, for until now no one has understood it. They come here, they make one law, it goes on, and at one great moment we get the document prepared by the National Audit Office, where the following observations have been made, which are simply impossible to reverse: '2013. The tax exemption for domestic land applied in 2005 was developed as a matter of urgency, as this was required by the government association's agreement. No analysis was carried out as to whether the law was applicable in its planned form at all and at what cost it could be implemented. On the basis of the national registers, the law is not applicable in the desired form, as the registers are not combined at such a level that the application or non-application of the exemption for each parcel is automatically reflected in the registers. ' In plain language, there is no technical base. What Mrs Sõerd told us here, trying to prove that this is not the case, is a pure lie. The National Audit Office has made another observation and referred it to the Minister of Finance. The National Audit Office recommends to the Minister of Finance that local authorities should be compensated ex post for all reasonable expenses incurred in implementing the Act. There were, there were, and there will be more. Since it has become normal here that not only the crap that the minister sometimes talks about there but also what the members of the Riigikogu have spoken about is being brought out of the committee, I recall the argument that Minister Ligi and I held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs regarding this bill, calling it idiocy. So nothing comes from an idiot but an idiot. Idio decision will become nothing more than the next idiotic decision, for which I congratulate the government coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U638	Please, colleague Valeri Korb! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U639	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, My morning did not begin as it began today in my colleague Stalnukhin, i.e. with news of the demographic situation. I tried yesterday to get closer to the issue of land tax and the document to be adopted here. I must say that in recent years much has been discussed as to whether land tax is necessary and the question raised is whether it is adequately performing its task. There are quite a few questions, and that means that with this sphere and its law, we don't have everything okay. Many public figures and representatives of many organisations have spoken on this subject. We remember that land tax is a tax based on the tax price of the land and that the tax price is set by the regular valuations of the land. Evaluations will take place, as we know, in the evaluation year determined by the Government of the Republic. Who loves statistics, I can say that land valuation has been carried out in Estonia three times, in 1993, 1996 and 2001. Today, the figures for the land valuation made in 2001 are valid. This means that for more than ten years, the country has done nothing in this direction. I mean, it's time to deal with it. Another little observation. We all know that the rate of land tax is set by the local government council within a range of 0.1 to 2.5% of the tax price of the land, and this can only be done by the municipality or city council until 31 January of the tax year. Let's say the land tax issue isn't an easy one. I have reviewed the laws relating to the Land Tax Act, and I can again tell those who love statistics that the national legislation relating to the Land Tax Act is the 21st Land Tax Act, the Land Valuation Act, the Land Reform Act, the Nature Conservation Act and all those that we are discussing today. For large cities, four acts have been adopted in our capital, Tallinn, which can regulate these issues. Those of you who have an interest may look at it. Ladies and gentlemen, My question to the waitress today was about land tax and property tax, which has been discussed a lot. The question has been raised as to whether land tax could be replaced by real estate tax. In the report of the Congress of European Local and Regional Authorities to the Estonian Parliament and Government bodies, which took place more than ten years ago, it was proposed to amend the legislation and practice relating to the Land Act. It was suggested that in the future the share of own resources at the disposal of the local government should be higher in order to increase their ability to generate income from local taxes. The report pointed out that a new type of local tax could be introduced or the existing ones changed in order to strengthen the revenue base of the municipalities. Of course, when it comes to the issue of land tax from the perspective of local governments, today the land tax forces the leaders of local governments, those who lead us, our parishes and our cities, to take different positions. The government's trend to abolish the tax on homeland from 2013 and to compensate local authorities for the loss of income by increasing their share of income tax, creates different feelings. We know that from January 2013, people are exempt from paying taxes for the land they own. I took and wrote out an article that the local government leaders would say. Firstly, that such a plan is a pretty strong blow to the government's wallet, and the abolition of land tax does not give people much. The next local government leader's opinion is that local governments were drawn from 11.93% of their income tax to 11.4%, and now it is as if the former situation is restored, but the land tax has been taken away. Third opinion: such a decision was taken against the background of disputes between the city of Tallinn and the Estonian state. A very important aspect, too, and you can think a lot about it. Next message: The reduction in the share of income tax received by former municipalities and the compensation for land tax should certainly be looked at separately. And the last thing I'd like to point out (there are too many of these opinions that, in the eight minutes that I'm allowed to talk about all of them), the sums are relatively small, but a lot of crap. Let us be honest that the situation with land tax raises many and many questions about the tax system as a whole. There's only one tax on the land tax. Looking at the wider picture, it turns out that our country is not really a low-tax country. Estonia's tax burden is only lower than the EU countries in Italy. Our tax burden is slightly more than 67%. It stands out that the share of indirect taxes in Estonia, compared with other European countries, is extremely high at 19.9%. We're followed by Iceland by 12.8%, the difference is 7%. This is, in my opinion, the super-ide of our government: since it knows that it is difficult to obtain money from the poor people through profit, it must be taken by means of indirect taxes. Each of us buys bread, electricity, the price of which now goes up, heat and gasoline. Here, however, we must immediately talk about the most important problem: there will be a surge in prices. Today, the local government has very few opportunities to contribute to the implementation or improvement of its budget. Practically all taxes are in the hands of the central government and will soon have disappeared from the landscape of the local government. That's too bad! We also need to discuss bill 310 at second reading today. It sets the percentage of the fee that goes to the local government unit's budget for the mining site and it can be said that 3 to 4 years of this income has been a good time for some local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U640	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U641	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, I am deeply disturbed by the root cause why we have come to this bill. In my opinion, the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act 299, is neither statesmanly nor responsible. With my criticism, I refer in particular to the predecessor of Bill 299, the infamous bill of 51. In the first option, it was called the Land Tax Exemption Act for Homeowners. I have been a member of the Riigikogu for some time and, frankly, I have not seen any other draft that would have been so populist. Now perhaps some senior colleagues could add a few more very negative examples to the list of poor laws. Here, for example, we recall the cluster law, where the Gender Equality Act was grafted out by increasing the number of members of Tallinn City Council. I would like to ask what the heathen gender equality has to do with the number of members of the Tallinn City Council. As we can all acknowledge here, both in the opposition and in the coalition, in fact, nothing. Of course, it would have been more or less understandable in form if the law had stipulated that the mandates would be split in half, half for women, half for men. But the final conclusion was that the suppression of such bad legislation was not fulfilled for its own vicious purpose, and the Centre Party apparently remained in power in Tallinn in the sadness of Urmas Reinsalu. The people once again showed that they thought the city was well run and extended the mandate of the Centre Party under the city's leadership. I also recall last year's bill 100, the original title '2012. The Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, the Act on artificial insemination and embryo protection, the Act on unemployment insurance and the Act on amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. If you read a headline like that on the street to any person, you'd probably look at the reader with a deep amazement and you wouldn't know what it is. Coalition ambassadors should remember that lawmaking is not a joke, it is a serious matter. It's not a joke to get too cocky when you rule. As practice has shown in the past and shows especially recently, the result is a night hearing. The opposition is using all the parliamentary possibilities here to balance this overconfidence a little bit. The coalition claims, for example, that the proposal to reduce the increase in electricity prices cannot be accepted, but at the same time, the government has two thirds of people's electricity bill to control. This policy-making style, which forgets the fact that the country is human, not the other way around, is not acceptable to anyone. When the budget is drawn up by looking only at the figures, not at the development plans and analyses, the situation is sad and leads to somewhere. The Centre Party has a mandate entrusted to the Riigikogu by 134000 Estonian people and this is a very large number given our population. In this Chamber of Riigikogu, in committees and in the press, we have the right to say on behalf of these people that the policy that the current government is implementing is not quite right and is far from what the people are expecting. Returning to bill 299, on the one hand, it must be commended that a serious problem has been addressed. But on the other hand, how did we get to this problem? Land tax exemption must be compensated because the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica had to deal with populism a little before the Riigikogu elections. I've been in contact with a lot of parish and city leaders, and they're convinced that losing this tax is one of the biggest stupidities the current government has done. Even cutting the income base of local governments and breaking your promise not to even it up doesn't make the local government leaders I've spoken to both evil and the loss of land tax. Interestingly, if the Coalition of the Reform Party and the IRL are usually able to read the numbers well, the state budget is the beauty of the numbers, not the needs of the people, then now we have come to a situation where the government no longer knows what a minus sign in front of the number means. The minus sign in front of the number, however, means a drop in money in this case, and there is not much money in cities and municipalities. I'm going to read you a few sums. For example, the city of Tallinn loses nearly 2380000 euros, Viimsi Municipality loses 559000 euros, Maardu City loses 216000 euros, Harku Municipality loses 171000 euros. These are the amounts from which the aforementioned municipalities must wipe their mouths clean. Of course, it can be said that these are all rich municipalities and survive this loss of money. But what do they have left but to seek austerity again and curse their own government? I am also concerned about the fact that, according to the Government's decision, the loss resulting from the land tax exemption will be compensated by an increase in the proportion of income tax received by municipalities. Formally, it seems like a noble and nice principle, but the essence of the matter is water-sharking. Why am I saying this? But it's precisely because it's not really about compensating, it's about paying off an old debt. I recall that in 2009, the proportion of income tax paid by individuals with a second supplementary budget was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4% for local authorities. By the way, it was pushed through in the middle of the financial year, when the cities and municipalities had decided everything, the contracts were made, the money was included. So very sad. I find this bill very difficult to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U642	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U643	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues! We have now reached the draft amendment of the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. The explanation of the law sounds proud: compensation for the loss of land tax. Let's hear the slogans, no matter how proudly, the content of the amendment doesn't change a bit. Remember, there was this slogan once: 'Five years in three years! ' Is that possible? No, it's not. I also think that no matter what slogans are, slogans may not have to answer reality. In this very Chamber, both opposition and coalition politicians have confirmed that political decisions need not only to appear, but actually to be understandable, to take into account a more distant perspective and to seek as many as possible the greatest possible revenue and, above all, to be stable. But you can see, and you can see, that the draft law under discussion does not pursue these objectives. In this respect, it is not even possible for me to argue reasonably, because any analyses have not been carried out and no reasonable arguments can therefore be made. From Mr Sõerdi, we heard here that Delfi was supposed to be analyzing or any other entertaining Internet portal. This bill, I think, is political, through and through. Its political objective is to damage as much as possible and to damage economically those local authorities where they have fought for power by politicians who are unsuitable for the coalition, and to make everyone else dependent on the state's purse and take all the autonomy and decision-making of the local authorities. This is not the case for me, because things are not always good when the whole arrangement goes down and the local community has no rights or is robbed of money to manage their local affairs. The exemption from the tax on the land under residence was so carelessly prepared that it caused a setback not only to the losses suffered by local authorities but also to the State. Now it is trying to resolve the unpleasant situation that has arisen and, apparently, to exempt the country or state companies from paying land tax. You know, I'm going to have to deal with this bill when I try to unthink it, such an idea, such a feeling that maybe it's the easiest thing for a country to get away from all the obligations that a reasonable country has. The state would no longer have obligations, only rights that would be exercised exactly as they have been done in this Chamber: abusively and abusively. Do you think I'm kidding when I say this? Actually, we don't, we're on our way, and we all actually understand that. But look, it's so good to have this bill that it's got the coalition into a fight. You know, if Jürgen Ligi can't support this bill in his heart, how can I? Nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U644	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U645	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here so much has already been said about the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, that it is very difficult to add anything. But in general, I like to generalize because as a medic, I'm used to seeing a whole big picture. The details are, of course, details, but in medicine it is also the case that the feet get wet, but the nose starts dripping. By the way, magicians often do their tricks by waving a white tissue with your right hand while carrying a left hand under the table or in your pocket. Even now, the government is proud to show that it takes care of the people and lowers the tax, see how well we are doing. Is it? At the same time, when land is exempt from land tax, all other taxes are raised by indirect taxes, excise duties. Prices will be increased, with artificially increasing prices. The price of electricity is also being artificially increased. After all, it is known that competition in Estonia works a little differently than in large countries, and if we create a free market, prices will rise immediately. The higher the price of any kind of service or goods, the more the government robs the cream on top of it of excise duty and VAT. This is how it happens: on the one hand, it is shown that you see a great tax relief, while on the other hand you pick a lot more. Being freed from land tax does not mean that we are doing well. We are quite suspicious, because we cannot maintain our health care system, and international experts pointed it out a long time ago, several years ago. In the form that it is now, with the funding that we have developed, the health system is not sustainable. And now it turns out that the state raises the bed and visit fees because it doesn't work. Doctors' strike, of course, is the so-called lifeline that gives the blame to the doctors. It would be very interesting to know what would justify an increase in these fees if the doctor's strike had not taken place. We're coming back to the tax on the land we live in. The state deals with these taxes, how does he deal with them, but the people who own them? Do they belong to the state or to the local government? There is obviously a way to do it, a way to do it, a way to do it, and a way to target it is a bad central party local government. Yes, it is the largest local government in Estonia, but that everyone else suffers too, nobody cares, as long as it can be done. I guess he is. You see, politics has always been thought to be an art of compromise. I do not know why, but it has developed in Estonia that politics is not an art of compromise, but of making it happen. This is the path of our parliamentary debates and our present presence in this Chamber. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U646	Thanks for the three minutes! Yes, of course, the local government must have its own income base, because the local government provides a considerable number of different services, and specifically for its local residents. The state provides its services, builds embassy buildings for our good people in South America, wars for the well-being of our people in Afghanistan and whatever else. The municipality, however, is the one who maintains car bus routes and tram routes, provides day care and practically takes care of everything else that concerns local life. We should follow the example of Scandinavia, which is both climatically and even genetically close to us. In any case, local governments have their own local taxes and no one goes after them. But in Estonia, as soon as the local government tries to raise its head a little bit and find even some way to increase its income base, they put their hands on it, they say you don't need anything, we will compensate you, much less if you had collected it yourself. In this way, the local government's initiative is curtailed, the local government is oppressed in every way possible. By the way, who's suffering? After all, residents who live in the territory of the same local government and who are considered by the state to be their residents are suffering! You see, here comes the interesting parallel that parties, by the way, take care of their voters in the same way. For some reason, however, the coalition in power considers only its voters to be the Estonian people, and those who voted for another party would not be like the Estonian people. Don't you have to take care of them? It seems to me that we are all residents of this country and that we would all like to share in all the benefits that are possible. But, unfortunately, we get part of the increase in prices, the increase in excise duty, the increase in alcohol duty, which I think is symptomatic. This is a classic threat: a government that increases the price of alcohol may be one of his last acts. Well, that's why we're sitting here making these calls. Whose is the electricity? Electricity is necessary for all of us. Without electricity, life is not possible today. You know, my mother-in-law thinks that computers are gonna destroy this world, but my mother-in-law's mother was pretty sure that electricity would destroy this world. No, I won't! Without electricity, life isn't possible, it's important, and for all our electricity, we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U647	Sure, sure. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U648	Very good! Please, colleague Kalev Kallo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U649	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It was only when Bill 299 was in this Chamber at first reading. There is no way to say that the members of the Riigikogu had no interest in it. After all, the Minister was asked a lot of questions and discussed. The extremely serious interest in the area which the draft proposal seeks to regulate also shows that 33 amendments have been tabled to the draft. Since I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, whose competence is to deal with this draft, I tried, of course, to find out about the progress of the debate in the committee on the second reading materials presented in the Chamber. However, 33 amendments, which certainly required a very stormy debate, debate and position taken by the Commission. I have opened a draft 299 explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the Land Tax Act Amendment Act, Land Tax Act and Income Tax Act Amendment Act. This explanatory memorandum is worth it to report here: 'The first reading of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 October 2012 took place on 30 November. By the deadline for submitting amendments 03.12.2012 at 10 a.m., the Estonian Central Party Group tabled 30 amendments. The Commission discussed the amendments, including on 3 December, and they were not supported by the Commission. The Commission made three amendments to the draft. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and to carry out the third reading of the draft on 12 December. ' I don't have to ask if you believe it or not, that's all. You can see for yourself if you open the bill. True, the indication that the explanations of the amendments are included in the list of amendments is true. There they are. But where are the explanations as to why one or the other amendment was not supported, what were the discussions on the amendments, which arguments were made in favour and against during the discussions? Was there only a vote in silence so that the Commission rapporteur could say that this was not discussed in the Commission? It is not possible to know how the vote was voted, because there are no voting results, so it is not possible to determine which amendments are not to be voted on in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. It is therefore possible to vote on everyone. In short, it can be said that no idea of the Commission having also carried out substantive work on the draft documents could be obtained. Unintentionally, the idea arose that I wanted something unprecedented that was simply not meant to be. To dispel or confirm my doubts, I turned to this beautiful yellow book that has been quoted from time to time in this Chamber, i.e. the comments of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I found on page 310, § 103, "The explanatory memorandum to the Management Committee'. The text of the legislative text itself reads as follows: 'The Management Board shall draw up for a second reading an explanatory memorandum containing information relating to the procedure of the draft, such as the reasons for taking into account and disregarding the amendments, the views of the initiator or author, experts and other persons involved in the proceedings of the draft. ' So it is very clear that the explanatory memorandum should contain precisely the information I wanted to find there: the reasons for taking into account and disregarding the amendments, the views of the initiator or author of the draft, the experts involved in the proceedings and other persons. But take a finger, there's nothing like that in there. Under the first point of the comments, we consider that, as from 23 November 2009, the submission of the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft is mandatory. Point 2 deserves to be quoted: 'The purpose of the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft is, on the one hand, to inform the members of the Riigikogu in more detail and the public about the discussions that took place between the first and second reading in the committee; on the other hand, it is a source of assistance in the later implementation and interpretation of the law. In practice, the explanatory memorandum is divided into several structural parts. ' Then follows a description of what each part should contain. You can read for yourself that each section should contain more information than the total joke that has been added to us under the explanatory memorandum. If we ourselves do not comply with the law in this Riigikogu, why do we have reason to believe that the people should comply with the laws that we have adopted, if they do not even have the opportunity to look for one or another additional explanation if they are interested? After all, we can try to apologize for the fact that the explanatory memorandum was prepared by officials and one of the official's aims is to do as much as is necessary and as little as possible. It seems to me that this situation has more to do with a story about a fish and a head. I believe that the Commission is presenting such explanatory notes for second reading, involving more than one fish and more than one head. After all, there are more than one level of demands for proper work. I do not think that where the explanatory memorandum has a fancy signature with the title 'Chairman of the Finance Commission', the signature would probably not be possible if, for example, I were to be the author of this signature. But it is also true that that is why I have not been entrusted with signing it. As a result, I was forced to ask the rapporteur pointless questions. The two questions were not fully clear either. All this information, however, could have been found in an explanatory memorandum which, unfortunately, was not there. Will things get better in the future? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U650	Thank you very much. Please, dear colleague Jüri Ratas. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U651	President of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Good guests! The Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act were amended then. I think that the reasoning and calculations of the government coalition in the drafting of this draft are once again staggering. First of all, the share of personal income tax received by the municipality from the second supplementary budget in 2009 was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%, followed by a tax exemption for domestic land as of 1 January 2013. Now we are seriously talking about compensating for the loss of income from local authorities, so that the share of income tax received by municipalities increases by only 0.17 percentage points, although it was reduced by 0.53 percentage points before. My mathematics says that in order to compensate for cuts made to local governments, the share of income tax received by municipalities in 2013 must be increased by at least 0.17 percentage points plus 0.53 percentage points, or 0.7 percentage points. In this case, however, local authorities will not be compensated for the downfalls of previous years, but the current injustice will end. Directly as a result of the Government's policy, a large part of local governments are currently facing quite serious financial difficulties. Therefore, it is very difficult for both rural municipalities and cities not to say that it is impossible to fulfil all the obligations imposed on them by law. At national level, the problem has still not been either recognised or deliberately ignored. The government coalition is proud of the low tax and debt burden of the Estonian state, but the government departments must report to themselves that this seemingly low debt and tax burden has been achieved largely at the expense of local governments. In a particularly difficult situation, municipalities are below the average. The ranking of the local authorities' capacity index recently published shows that the level and possibilities of Estonian municipalities vary repeatedly, depending on size, location and other criteria. At the top of the ranking, the towns and municipalities of Harjumaa are predominantly enthroned, but the coping and future prospects of small municipalities, for example, in the southeast and eastern part of Estonia, are anything but delightful. Of course, small municipalities, such as the municipality of Põltsamaa or the city of Põlva, are also well-off, but they are more of an exception, thanks to their location, history and also good management, who have been able to find their niche. In general, local authorities in Estonia have reached a critical limit or below the administrative capacity of today, which, in addition to the decisions of the government coalition, has been exacerbated by the decline and concentration of the population in the centres, as well as by the ongoing recession. At times, it is the impression that the aim is to make the financial situation of local authorities worse consciously, so that they are more than willing to accept, as the last straw, the administrative reform proposed by the government coalition, which, at least on paper, allows their financial capacity to be increased. I very much hope that I am wrong here. When I come back to one of the drafts discussed earlier today, I was given the hope of Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who said that the financial autonomy of the municipalities must under no circumstances be reduced in his time. To avoid misunderstanding, I would stress that I am certainly not against administrative reform, but I continue to believe that administrative reform must not only be a forced and mechanical combination of numbers. It is most important to create a real-life self-government system in cooperation with local authorities, based on the principles of the European Charter for Local Government. This means that the administrative organisation of Estonia, the tasks assigned to the local government by law, the budgetary possibilities of cities and rural municipalities and the basis for budget revenue formation must be considered at the same time. All administrative units in the country must be successful and financially insured and independent in their decisions. Just as the state budget must be put together on the basis of long-term objectives and national priorities, the legislative changes and reforms concerning local authorities must be more than one book-based Excel table. Much more important than the figures and technical statistics are the daily livelihood of our people and the prospects for the future. The goal of the government must not be to create weak and easily affected municipalities, but to have a sustainable presence of real-life rural municipalities and cities. The entire Estonian people cannot concentrate only on Harjumaa or, worse, go to Finland at all. Reliable living conditions must be guaranteed throughout Estonia. This means jobs, kindergartens, schools, proper infrastructure, social welfare institutions, cultural institutions, etc. at the same time. Local power is closest to man and therefore all cuts and unexpected changes are most immediately felt there. Any tax policy reforms must aim to improve people's well-being and quality of life. The same principle must also apply to the reform of the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. Unfortunately, I am not sure whether these decisions will result in an increase in the security and security of every person in Estonia and improve the quality of the services provided in cities and municipalities. The state and local authorities must be mutually good partners, not competitors. This means that all laws must be consulted with representatives of local governments and their assessment actually taken into account. It is not appropriate for a democratic state to have a force policy and to be guided by the opinion of its own party leadership alone. I am pleased that at the moment there is also a coalition politician, Valdo Randpere, who, in my opinion, also has a very good local government background, from the City Council of Tallinn. I think he agrees with such a regional, strong local government in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U652	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U653	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us the second reading of bill 299. The previous speakers raised many and thorough arguments, which is why the draft is not good. I don't want to repeat that. But I see it is useful to provide you with information on the situation with local taxes in other European countries. Of course, there are traditions and experiences in different countries, but the Charter of Local Government provides the main directions that will lead to unification in the future. The basic ideology relates to the maximum support for local authorities' ability to provide public services to the local population. But now the examples. Great Britain has strong and long-standing traditions in the activities of local governments and also in cooperation with their central authority. There is a general property tax (NNDR). Local authorities charge real estate tax (UBR), including land tax, which is fully received by the local government. Taxes are quite high and they account for nearly 30% of municipal revenues. France. Since the French Revolution, local land taxes are important in the tax system. The sums received from the land tax are shared between the local and the central authorities and their parts are set by law. The municipality can use registration standards here as well as a double coefficient. It may also grant benefits to persons and to various social groups. It is very interesting that when problems of competence arose between the central authority and the local government, between regions and agencies, they were already solved at national level in 1982 for the benefit of the local government. The competences and benefits were balanced, not in the whole area, but in most of France's territory. Germany. Real estate taxes (Grundsteuer), including land tax, are local taxes. A general federal level of 0.35% has been established, but local authorities can use local coefficients to 280-600%. Holland. Real estate taxes (onroerende zaakbelasting), including land tax, are decided annually by municipalities. The base base shall be provided by the central authority and the local authority may use a coefficient in the calculation, which may vary every year according to the needs of the municipality. Spain. Land taxes, like other local taxes, are annual local taxes. The basis is the prices of the property register confirmed by the central authority, which is reviewed by the central authority every eight years. Switzerland. There are no general federal, central authority-level taxes in this area and all issues are resolved either at cantonal or municipal level. Municipalities have quite a chance to fix taxes. Switzerland is known to be the country with the lowest tax burden compared to other European countries. The European Charter for Local Government highlights four... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U654	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U655	... the main source of financing for local government activities: local taxes, fees, central government subsidies and loans. It is interesting here what the situation is in the European countries. I will bring to you the data from a table drawn up by the Council of Europe. I will bring out Estonia immediately so that the others can then be compared to Estonia. Estonian local taxes are 0.1%, fees 0.9%, state subsidies 91%, others are smaller, loan burden is 2. Near us is Bulgaria, with local taxes of 1% and 70% from the country. Albania is also at this stage because the country receives 94% and only 2,5% are local taxes. I am not talking about San Marino, because it is a special situation with 0%. Malta has domestic taxes of 0, almost all of which are included in national taxes of 98 per cent. Mr Sõerd spoke of Sweden. I'll get the Swedish data. Local taxes are 61%, fees +8% and state subsidies or subsidies only 19%. If we had time to look at this table, you can see that local governments are in a pretty solid position with their taxes, about 15 to 30%, that's the average. For example, in Romania, state subsidies are 79%, with a tax rate of 5%. That is why I had reason to ask Mr Sõerdi which way we are going. Which European countries set an example for us whose models are acceptable to us? I didn't get an answer, and that's why I came here to bring you this information. This is where my questions came to Sõerdi. It is very sad that local authorities cannot fulfil their obligations with these resources; they are weak because they do not have enough resources to fulfil their obligations in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U656	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U657	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to what colleagues who spoke before me said. As always, speaking after others may not repeat much, for what you do repeat is what has already been said. The birth story of the land tax exemption law, its populist backgrounds, the complexity of its implementation, the contradiction, the poor preparation, has been taken through. Divergences in opinions within the coalition have also been examined. It was exciting to hear references to aspects included in the National Audit Office's report. A number of accounting errors were reported. The administration of the law seems to be very expensive. Of course, the issue of the exemption of homeland is not just today's issue. I looked at the old verbatim and saw that we have been working on this topic throughout the current Riigikogu. On 3 May 2011, for example, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi appeared before us. In reply to Neeme the Great's question of compensating for the tax exemption of the land under home, he said: 'That is the right question. There is no yet one answer. I myself have fiercely defended the view that talk, as if it were enough to say in advance, is naive. In this sense, the coalition has also taken the view that it is really not enough to say, but to compensate or create a presumption of compensation is essential in order to introduce such an advantage. Municipalities should certainly not be deprived of land tax, which is in itself a stable and natural source of income. ' Or what should the politicians of the Reform Party have thought of this law? They knew very well that Estonia had already ratified the European Charter for Local Government in 1994 and committed itself to providing local authorities with a sufficient income base to carry out the task assigned to them by law. And that's without any additional conditions. In other words, I would like to repeat that: the state is obliged to provide the municipalities with the exhaustive and, which is particularly important, I repeat once again, an independent income base from the discretion of the central authority. Reformist politicians realized that at least at this point in the coalition agreement, they had a bag pulled on their heads and put themselves in front of the IRL's populist carriage. By the way, it is interesting to also look at today's session, where Aivar Sõerdi's performance appeared to be sufficiently critical in terms of some aspects. Or at least it seems to me that he, too, agreed that this was a populist initiative. I asked Aivar Sõerd, on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the following question: 'Homeowners in the Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act have seen, in particular, propaganda, where the title of the law is more important than content. At all, the title was also given to itself only in the course of the Commission's work. Others were convinced that these charges were unfounded. ' I continued: 'I have another question for you. However, if the content of the law is more important than the name, would it not be more appropriate to combine the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, with the Land Tax Act? In essence, the same specific area is regulated. Is it appropriate, then, to regulate it by several laws? " The answer was that the law had a charming title. I guess he also found that the title was more important than the contents. And there is populism. It was his answer. But let's go through the verbatim and see what else is in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U658	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U659	Prime Minister Andrus Ansip replied on 21 November 2012 from this very speech chair to Priit Toobal's question on the land tax exemption law for the land under home country and also said very beautiful, laconical but precise words. If the state would compensate, Priit Toobal asked. The answer was this: 'Compensating. He also compensates those who lost the tax on their land before the law came into force. Administrative costs are also compensated. ' But at some point, the attitude of the Reform Party began to change. A completely new aspect has been added: we will compensate, but, of course, as we, the central authority, imagine. I stress, according to the central authority. Reform parties are big pragmatists. If you're in some kind of trouble, you're gonna have to turn it around so you can profit from it. The reaping of benefits has apparently been in a long war between central and local authorities. I will withdraw for a moment from a specific bill in order to get closer to his hindsight. The Estonian Parliament is increasingly reminiscent of the branch office of a large international company, or rather of its accounts, where there may be a keen commitment to dealing with one or another of the individual issues, if the offices concerned have already handled them nicely elsewhere. Thus, the policy-making process has shifted to a completely different place. In my understanding, this approach is regrettable. This situation compromises our Parliament and it compromises all parliamentaryism in the eyes of the Estonian people. In this way, all sorts of prima facie modern alternatives to parliamentaryism will be sought. Parliament is not up to its responsibilities if it adopts one law or another, which, taken one by one, seems to be a proper law, but it does not seem to be the same. Parliament's task is not to deal with individual laws, but with legislation that is harmoniously shaping society. Legislation reflects policies. This means that in order to understand their activities, members of the Riigikogu must compare the law being processed with the laws adopted or planned before. Only in this way can we understand the meaning of legislation as a whole. The context found is simple: in the view of the government, the activities of the municipalities must be subject to stricter control by the central authority. It is this motive that goes through pretty large parallel laws, just like the law that is currently being dealt with. There has been talk of civil society in Estonia, but it does not coincide with a European vision of civil society, according to which civil society is considered to be based on local governments. We have a lot of talk about emigration, but emigration will grow as long as there is no regional policy involved in strengthening local authorities. If there are no attraction centres open to Metsaküla and Tallinn or Metsaküla and Tromsø, they cannot be done without strengthening local authorities. This law is one that goes against parliamentarianism and against civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U660	Thank you. Priit Toobali, the speaker of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U661	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Good students on the balcony! This draft, which Parliament is dealing with at second reading and which is entitled 'The law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act that exempts owners from land tax', is another example of how the state weakens local governments, subjects itself to control, and actually deals with the binding of local authorities, the Estonian state units closest to the Estonian people. If you look at the picture a little more broadly, the way the Government of the Republic behaves with local governments, reducing their financial autonomy and budgetary resources, is not reflected for the first time in this draft and is not new. This activity has taken place at least since the beginning of the economic crisis in 2008. Unfortunately, the current government, which is leading the Estonian state, chose the path of making major cuts and savings at the expense of local governments. I think it has been necessary to do this because, as a number of colleagues have already said: to subject local authorities to their own pressure so that local authorities do not confront the state, but constantly ask for alms. Exactly what the Government of the Republic is doing to people right now, with the same electric excise we've been talking about, and with a wider increase in electricity prices. People are forced into poverty and then people are forced to ask for income through social benefits. I do not think that this is a sensible behaviour towards either local authorities or people. As I said, this draft, which concerns the exemption of homeowners from land tax, is not the first step with which the Government of the Republic weakens local governments. This has been the case at least since 2008. Let us look at some examples of what the country has done on this issue. The biggest cut was certainly on 20 February 2009, when the majority in Parliament reduced the share of personal income tax that goes to local governments. If it used to be 11.93%, the country reduced it to 11.4%. Thus, the second additional budget for 2009 reduced the proportion of income tax paid by the individual to local authorities. It seems that only percentage points were reduced, but it was actually hundreds of millions of kroons. If they are calculated in euros, this amount will also be more than EUR 30 million. Moreover, the problem was that the decision was taken in the middle of the financial year, when the municipalities had signed contracts for the maintenance and construction of the buildings and the investments put in place. This has caused many problems for local authorities. The next step was to reduce the financing of local roads. This was done by the same decision, which was linked to the vote on the matter of trust on 20 February 2009 when the allocation for local roads was reduced. In 2005-2007. It was 5% of the amount earmarked for road construction in the state budget, then it was reduced by a number of percentage points. While, for example, EUR 40,46 million went to maintain local roads in 2008, only EUR 12,65 million was earmarked for renovation of local roads in the 2011 state budget. In the budget for next year, the government coalition is planning to increase this amount somewhat, but this is far from the level that was agreed with the local authorities. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U662	Sure. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U663	The next question is undoubtedly the limitation on the lending of local authorities. We know very well that this decision, which was taken in 2009, had to be only a decision of the depressing age, and it certainly had to be changed on better days. In these very weeks here, these very days, this issue has been discussed in Parliament. The continuation of the loan limit has also been postponed for several years. This undoubtedly reduces the self-determination of local authorities and makes it more difficult to function. When it comes to local taxes, the abolition of sales and boat taxes, for example, on 23 September 2010, when they were removed from the list of local taxes, will undoubtedly make the situation of local authorities more difficult. The decision tried to do this to the city of Tallinn, which introduced sales and boat tax, but before that several local governments had already introduced sales tax. These local authorities have been deprived of this income in the future. In fact, no compensation was granted to the local authorities, although the Constitution provides for this. This has been pointed out by both the Supreme Court in its judgment and the CLRAE, the body that operates at the Council of Europe, who stands for local governments. But no, the government coalition has not been intimidated either by the fingertips of the Supreme Court or by the proposals and precepts that come from Europe, according to which it should not be done in this way that any source of income of local government should be abolished or that any tax collected by the local government should not be offset. The government of the Republic, the government coalition, has not been intimidated. When we talk about this bill, which is very well suited to this series, i.e. the abolition of the tax on the land under home, the position of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments on the draft was given a year ago, or a year and a half ago, when it was abolished. There was no compensation mechanism yet. As I said, it was already in the position of the ELL and EMOL that the plans for decisions to reduce public taxes, including land tax revenues and local tax revenues, on the budgets of local authorities should provide for an increase in other tax revenues or compensation for the reduction of the revenue base in the same amount of money. A similar amendment was proposed by the Central Party Group on the draft. The exemption of homeowners from land tax is clearly having a negative effect on the income of local governments. This was acknowledged by the drafters. The promise was that the State would compensate local authorities for the loss of revenue from the state budget. My good colleague, Aadu Must, has already quoted the Prime Minister who gave the answer in Question Time, who said that no local authority will lose its tax on the land under the land. I have a table where there are a whole range of municipalities that lose: Tallinn, Maardu, Harku, Jõelähtme, Keila, Kernu, Kiili, Rae, Saku, Viimsi, Narva-Jõesuu, Vaivara, Vihula and Kohila. These are the municipalities that lose their income base when they adopt the Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts their owners from land tax. Not to mention what the National Audit Office and the Auditor General have said about this draft. If the National Audit Office is able to sum up a whole book of dissenting opinions about one bill that has not even been adopted, to highlight a whole book of problems, then I think this is where all members of the Government of the Republic and members of the people of the government coalition should take the issue more seriously than they have done so to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U664	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme! Something tells me they want eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U665	Five for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U666	Five minutes, then.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U667	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of abolishing and legitimising the tax on the land under home is, in my opinion, one of the stupidest draft laws of recent times that has been adopted in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. We are therefore trying to reduce the national budget by EUR 14 million and, at the same time, we are reducing the budget for local authorities by about EUR 3 million. Is it legitimate that the income of local governments can be reduced in this way without finding sources of cover to maintain their income base? The land tax is calculated through the Tax Administration. The audit of the National Audit Office reveals that there are many problems with the calculation of land tax. Firstly, the land tax calculation does not correspond to the actual picture. This has shown that in some municipalities people have paid a higher tax than they should have actually paid. I believe that these people have the right to turn to the state and to recover this unjustly collected tax. There are also many problems with land tax in local governments, as this tax has to be administered by local authorities and no information system has been developed today to facilitate local authorities' keeping this register. According to the latest data, the register will be completed in 2015. I ask why it was necessary to rush into implementing this land tax. The reason certainly was that the government coalition once again fought the city of Tallinn. The fight ended with 14 municipalities losing after the city of Tallinn due to this law, but it is known that there are considerably more such municipalities. I ask, how can Vihula rural municipality cope with the loss of EUR 65000 following the entry into force of this law? Small rural municipality, where revenue falls to 65000 euros at a time! How does the municipality have to cope? The justification that it did not fit into the formula that there is a difference is not acceptable, as according to § 154 of the Constitution, no obligation must be imposed on local authorities which have not been agreed with the local government and which have no financial cover. Similarly, no money must be taken away from local authorities unless a single commitment has been taken away. The Constitution cannot only work the same way; the principle must be the same. Now we are in a situation where many local authorities are forced to use a land tax coefficient of 2.5, i.e. the maximum, because the income base is decreasing for all, not only because of the land tax exemption, but also because the overall income base is decreasing. As a result, all businesses are suffering and there is no way to create more jobs. Without being meant for consequences, this law was carried out in haste from this Riigikogu and the consequences are probably not happy for the coalition either. Not to mention that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia from this very chair of the Riigikogu promised that... A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U668	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U669	... no municipality loses because of this tax. But it turns out that Mr. Prime Minister is not a man of his word, because the table shows something else. And so it is that the state can agree with the municipalities not only to compensate for the abolition of the tax on homeland but also to cover other expenses. The situation today is that many municipal officials are on the payroll in 2009 and the hope of raising wages is minimal. Many cities, villages and other settlements are blind because the local government's revenue base is regulated by switching off street lighting. Is it normal that such things are possible? We live in a country of the European Union. I think that such a confrontation between the state and local government will not take the Estonian state anywhere. In my opinion, the leaders of the city of Tallinn and the representatives of the government should agree on how to proceed so that the interests of the rest of Estonia's local governments are not undermined. Because, above all, these laws and legislative changes have been adopted in order to fight the city of Tallinn, whether it is sales tax, which is by nature a tax on local government, or the Riigikogu has decided to determine the number of members of the Tallinn City Council. Yeah, that's what we've come to. When I listen to the speeches of my colleagues in the Chamber of Riigikogu, very many speakers come to the point that they would like to lead the local government and be members of the local government. However, for this purpose, the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu should be waived and the local government council should start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U670	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U671	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that I have the honour of concluding today's round of speeches. I want to talk to you about a law that has changed its name before the second reading, namely the law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, according to the amendment. This strange name of the law reminds me of a strange legitimacy in the drafting of the Riigikogu. Namely, when a populist title is placed on the law, such as the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, or the Law against Monopolies, or the Law releasing homeowners from the loan, it is often caused by the fingerprints of Urmas Reinsalu and Ken-Marti Vaher, and these laws tend to be accompanied by such a thing that they are no help to anyone and they bring more trouble. This is also the case with the law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts its owners from land tax, which almost reached the Riigikogu or came from the government as a cull, because the government did not remind anyone that such a new law had been created with a bizarre title that changed one section. Whether it benefits homeowners is a question of their own, because the land tax has been the part of the taxes received by municipalities, which are maintained by the streets, access to the streets, street lighting is provided. These things are obviously important to all residents, and municipalities should have a return to meet these obligations. One dispute has taken place with regard to this law that the government, when it adopted this populist law, promised that the gift would not be made at the expense of cities and municipalities, but that the cost of the gift would be offset from the State's income base. It took a year and a half to figure out how to compensate. Finally, the scheme was developed, but this scheme leaves 14 municipalities in the minus, some of them in the very strong minus. Even if we total all the revenues and expenses, this scheme will peel the municipalities with 0.03%. This scheme had been developed before the government came up with the idea that not only would homeowners not have to pay land tax, but the state could also squirm out of its land tax liability and tell the municipalities in December: gold municipalities, we decided that we would save the state budget on your account from 1 January and pay nothing for the country's land. When the Finance Committee asked the Minister of Finance why the state no longer pays land tax, why the loss of income to the municipalities is not compensated for, the arrogant answer came 'Would it?' ' We think we should. We believe that the money taken from local governments should also be compensated for in the light of previous withdrawals. If we look further at the amendments made by the Central Party Group, there are different versions. We have been accused that we often propose only one solution, but they also want to see half-tones. Now we have offered 30 solutions, 30 different grey shades, how the municipal income base can be restored, and the strongest versions of them would restore the municipal income base taken away on 20 February 2009. Today's news threshold was exceeded by the thought of Urmas Reinsalu, who has done a lot of law here. He said that what we are still dealing with in this Riigikogu with three readings of laws, that we will conclude all the laws that need to be adopted quickly, together, tie them to the government's vote of confidence, and adopt them quickly without discussion, and everyone will be lighter. Everything can be done the way it's comfortable, not the way people are better. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U672	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U673	Once, such a thing has been done, a negative state budget and 20 other laws were linked to the vote of confidence on 20 February 2009. This meant that amendments could not be tabled, the opposition could ask questions to the rapporteur, the whole opposition could give a speech from a group and then a vote was taken. With this vote, very many things were taken away, and one thing was that the municipal income base was reduced by a total of EEK 1 billion. Instead of the current rate of income tax, 11.93, the municipalities were left with 11.4%. Since this money was taken from the municipalities in the middle of the financial year and we also have some laws in place to protect the municipalities, the government had to say that we took away a billion municipalities, but now we must also reduce their obligations. These obligations, which were reduced, were linked to the pre-school children's law and to the organisation of sports and youth work in local governments. It was interpreted as meaning that, until then, when the municipality had to offer its income-based kindergarten places to all preschool children, it was now said that we would relax you, you only have to offer kindergarten places to children from one and a half years onwards. 'Only' is in strong quotes, because it did not in fact reduce the obligation of municipalities in relation to kindergartens. Thus, a fifth of the money was taken from Estonian kindergartens. The same thing happened in the field of sport and youth work. It was said that municipalities are now no longer responsible for youth sports and youth work. This was justified by the fact that Estonia was in a total crisis in 2009. The government didn't know how to get out of the budget mine democratically, and that's why government cuts were made by cluster law. Now we know that Estonia is no longer in such a bad state; Estonia has enough money to support other countries that are in trouble. EUR 29.5 million have just been voted on here for the ESM. It is also time to abolish the municipal cut, first increase the municipal income base to 11.93% and then add the percentage that has been taken away with the land tax. We see such proposals here today among the amendments. Just as a quick reply, when the 2009 cluster law took away the revenue base from the municipalities, something else was changed to the electric excise duty. If, until then, there was an electricity excise and it was said that it had to go to improve the environment, now it was said that it was going directly to fill the budget gap. And then the electricity excise duty was increased to 4.5 times the minimum required by the European Union. This is what helped to fill the budget gap in 2009 and which in 2013 would help to reduce the growth of electricity bills for Estonian people and companies. So you see, decisions taken during the recession in 2009 can now be positively amended at the end of 2012. Thank you. I will also hand over the proposal of the Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U674	Dear colleagues, there are now so many suggestions on this table! Let's finish the negotiations first. The negotiations are over. And just as our Home and Working Procedures Act provides for for a second reading, we will examine the 299 amendments to the draft. 33 amendments have been received. The first amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U675	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U676	Thank you. Please also submit a proposal in writing. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U677	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. For 48, against 8. The amendment was supported. We will move on to the second amendment tabled by the lead committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U678	I would like to vote on the second amendment. Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U679	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U680	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put the second amendment tabled by the commission to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 52 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, if we have a vote, including a vote on an amendment, I would ask for silence in the Chamber. The third amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U681	I ask for a vote on the third amendment and, before the vote, a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U682	Thank you! Please also submit a proposal in writing. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U683	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 3 members of the Riigikogu, 36 against, there were no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U684	I ask for a vote on the fourth amendment and, before the vote, a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U685	Thank you! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U686	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 5, against 36, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Dear colleagues, if there is no silence in the Chamber during the vote, the President will have to cut the vote next time. I ask for silence in the Chamber during the vote! The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U687	I would like to ask for the fifth amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U688	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U689	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 5 members of the Riigikogu, against 34. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on to the sixth proposal. It has been submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is that the proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please! Would you like a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U690	I ask for the sixth amendment to be voted on, and before this ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U691	Are you sure? Please also bring this proposal in writing. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U692	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We have all arrived calmly and happily again in the Chamber of Plenary Sessions. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu, 33 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 7. It has been submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is that the proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U693	Thank you! I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U694	Here's what we're gonna do. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U695	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group is over. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7 members of the Riigikogu, 28 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U696	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U697	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U698	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on the eighth amendment. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 5 members of the Riigikogu, 31st against, there were no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U699	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U700	Please also submit a proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U701	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the steering committee. Please take a stand and vote. For six, 30 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 10. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U702	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U703	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U704	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote Amendment 10 by the Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. For four, against 26, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U705	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U706	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U707	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 8, 29 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U708	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U709	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U710	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 12, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. Eight to 26, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U711	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U712	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U713	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 13 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 8 votes to 24, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U714	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U715	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U716	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 14th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 5 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 30 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U717	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U718	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U719	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 15 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 4 votes to 27, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U720	I ask for a vote on the proposal, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U721	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U722	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 16, made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 6), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 27 votes to 27, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U723	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U724	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U725	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 17 by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 4 votes to 27, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U726	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U727	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U728	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 18 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. There were 5 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 25 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U729	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U730	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U731	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 19, which has been tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 3, 29 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U732	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U733	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U734	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 20th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! For four, against 25, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 has been rejected by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U735	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U736	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U737	I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! For five, against 25, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the Central Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U738	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U739	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U740	I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! For four, against 25, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has failed. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U741	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U742	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U743	I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! In favour of 3, against 27, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has failed. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U744	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U745	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U746	I shall put to the vote Amendment 24 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! In favour of 5, 18 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has failed. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U747	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U748	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U749	I shall put to the vote Amendment 25 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! In favour of 5, 24 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U750	I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U751	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U752	I shall put to the vote Amendment 26 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please vote! 5 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 27 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has failed. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U753	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U754	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U755	I shall put to the vote the 27th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 27 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U756	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U757	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U758	I shall put to the vote the 28th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 27 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 29th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U759	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U760	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U761	I shall put to the vote the 29th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U762	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U763	I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U764	Good fellows, recess is over. I shall put to the vote the 30th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu, against 26. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U765	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U766	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U767	The recess requested by the Centre Party has ended. I shall put to the vote the 31st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 5 members of the Riigikogu, 26 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U768	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U769	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U770	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 32nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7, 28 votes against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position is to take full account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U771	I would like to ask for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U772	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U773	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 33rd amendment tabled by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu, 6 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, we have examined the draft amendments. Applications have been received from the Management Board. The commission has proposed that the second reading be discontinued. In its statement, the Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of 299. Let's start preparing the vote. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U774	Before the vote, I ask you for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U775	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-05_U776	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 299. Please take a stand and vote. By 16 members of the Riigikogu, 32 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the 12th item is addressed.
