ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby present to you the inquiry that I, along with the other members of the Central Party Group, will present to Mr Jaak Aavikkool, Minister for Education and Science. We are about to have the time of the state exams. This is an important time every year for all young people who take state exams and for their parents and grandparents who are interested in state exams. This year, our traditional essay has been replaced by the National Exam of the Native Language. This has raised quite a number of questions in mother tongue teachers and a controversial attitude towards graduates, and consequently we have six questions for the Minister. We would like to know more about the state examination of the mother tongue and whether the new state examination of the mother tongue is what, as his minister, unlike mother tongue teachers and members of the Native Language Teachers Society, would like to see in the future, or whether it is a point to come back to our traditional essay one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U3	Evgeni Ossinovski, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have an inquiry to address to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on the success of integration policy. Recently, monitoring of the integration of Estonian society was completed at the request of the Ministry of Culture in 2011. There was a number of positive news on the increased sense of home country of the Russian-speaking population as well as on the improved language skills. According to the survey, Estonians have become more open to the involvement of Russian-speaking fellow citizens in Estonian society. At the same time, we also find a number of worrying facts and negative trends. Despite some sector-specific progress, the study shows that the proportion of people who have been moderately, strongly or fully integrated on the basis of the aggregated integration index has remained at the 2008 level, or close to 61%. This means that nearly 40% of the Russian-speaking population are still weakly integrated or not fully integrated, despite the growing rise of people born and raised here. Nor can the stratification of the integration process be overlooked, where successful citizens have developed from better language skills, wealthier and more active Russian-speaking people, while less wealthy or less active people have become a group of people excluded and alienated from the country. The study does not suggest that the continuation of the current approach to integration policies will change these developments in the future. On this basis, we have seven questions for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U5	Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, Envoys of the Social Democratic Party supporting responsible monetary policy have serious concerns about the economic forecast published by the Ministry of Finance on Tuesday. While other European countries in general, including the bad boy Greece, are making an effort to reduce their budget deficit, improve their budget positions, bring down the debt burden, this forecast shows that the Estonian budget is in deficit until 2016, the loan burden is showing a strong growth rate, reserves are decreasing, the ratio of net assets to reserves becomes negative. In the case of a deficit, it is the central government that is carrying this minus the most. At the same time, when we look at the projections of reserves, the share of social security funds in reserves is increasing. As a result, the question arises as to whether public policy is to keep unemployment insurance contributions unduly high, compared to disbursements, etc. The Socialists have eight questions about this. Especially in a situation where the programme of the government union envisages completely different monetary policy objectives than this forecast calls into mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U7	Dear colleagues, I have adopted three inquiries on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides on their further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet and the Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Maritime Support Group, convened by Annely Akkermann. So all marine enthusiasts from the sea state of Estonia are warmly invited to this founding meeting. Good colleagues, we're now conducting a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. There is also a clarification on today's agenda. On today's agenda, Deniss Borodich, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Kalle Laane, Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs will make a presentation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U8	Let's start working on today's item. We have one item entitled 'Proposal by the Chancellor of Justice No 14 of the immunity procedure of a member of the Riigikogu (Proposal to bring § 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution).' Let me briefly introduce to you the procedure for handling the rules of procedure under §§ 149.152 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the report by the Chancellor of Justice is up to 20 minutes, then the report by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is up to 20 minutes and then the report by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs is up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After that, there's been a negotiation. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. Once the negotiations have been concluded, we must vote on the question of who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the proposal. I ask Chancellor of Justice Indrek Tederi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am not going to rephrase my proposal, of course, but to emphasise some important aspects. First of all, a word about the constitutional background. The first sentence of § 76 of the Constitution states that a member of the Riigikogu is untouchable. According to the second sentence, a member of the Riigikogu can only be held liable with the consent of the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice. I stress that the criminal immunity of a member of the Riigikogu is, of course, not a prohibition on punishing a MP for committing a crime, a procedural, deferred guarantee. The principle of immunity laid down in the Constitution is enshrined as a safeguard clause. Its aim is to protect the members of the opposition's Riigikogu from possible persecution of executive power and removal from the parliamentary debate. Criminal immunity is a guarantee of the exercise of a free mandate, which must enable a member of the Riigikogu to perform the duties of ambassadors unhindered and in accordance with his conscience. The Constitution has linked the criminal prosecution of a member of the Riigikogu with the consent of the Riigikogu. Pre-trial investigations and legal proceedings prior to possible conviction as a final criminal prosecution. In particular, pre-trial proceedings in criminal cases are subject to restrictions that require enhanced protection in view of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu. Therefore, I believe that in criminal proceedings, § 76 (1) and (2) of the Constitution must be interpreted in conjunction, i.e. immunity plus the consent of the Riigikogu to criminal liability. In other words, in criminal proceedings the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu may be waived only with the consent of the Riigikogu. I note that, by way of exception, it is justified to carry out urgent procedural measures against a suspected member of the Riigikogu without the prior consent of the Riigikogu if he is caught in the commission of a first-degree crime, figuratively, being caught in the hands of a bloody knife. Although the Constitution does not expressly provide for such an exception, this conclusion follows from the interpretation of the conflicting constitutional rules with a view to safeguarding the legal order. Some remarks about the role of Chancellor of Justice, although this is not at the forefront. The Riigikogu has the decision-making power to withdraw the criminal immunity from a member of the Riigikogu. The task assigned to the Chancellor of Justice by the Constitution is only to propose that the Riigikogu give its consent. On the other hand, according to the meaning of the Constitution, immunity as a safeguard clause is compatible with the right of the Chancellor of Justice to refuse to propose to the Riigikogu, depending on the circumstances. The limits of the activities of the Chancellor of Justice when examining the application of the prosecutor's office, including when returning, are determined by law by the Riigikogu. A few words about the regulation in force and its shortcomings. First, until 31 August last year, according to the Act in force, a member of the Riigikogu may be detained as a suspect, subject to a restraining order, to search, seizure, observation and review only after the consent of the Riigikogu to prepare an indictment against him has been obtained. Since 1 September last year, § 377 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that a member of the Riigikogu may be detained as a suspect and may be subject to a restraining order and may be ordered to seize and inspect property if the consent of the Chancellor of Justice has been obtained on the basis of a request from the state's attorney general. The consent of the Riigikogu is only necessary to prepare an indictment of a member of the Riigikogu. The current law therefore provides, in contrast to the past, for the possibility of carrying out a number of procedural acts which significantly affect the exercise of a free mandate in relation to a member of the Riigikogu without the consent of the Riigikogu. Instead, the consent of the Chancellor of Justice is required. Thus, the Chancellor of Justice is tasked by the current law to authorise a member of the Riigikogu to carry out procedural acts before withdrawing immunity from the Riigikogu. The consent of the Riigikogu or of the Chancellor of Justice is not required in order to conduct the examination of a member of the Riigikogu from 1 September of last year. I find that the idea of the Constitution is not compatible if the consent of the Riigikogu to criminal prosecution is necessary only for the prosecution (to be sent to the court). Taking the liberty of a member of the Riigikogu in criminal proceedings or carrying out other procedural acts which significantly impede the exercise of his or her free mandate before obtaining the consent of the Riigikogu is covered by the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu and the criminal immunity of a member of the Riigikogu. In contrast, the constitutional safeguard clause would be meaningless. The Code of Criminal Procedure is contrary to the Constitution, as the Chancellor of Justice cannot be entrusted with tasks falling within the competence of the Riigikogu according to the Constitution. The Code of Criminal Procedure also provides for an independent and binding right for the Chancellor of Justice to consent to the prosecutor's office to carry out procedural proceedings against a suspect of a member of the Riigikogu, contrary to the nature of the Chancellor of Justice as an independent institution that balances the state's capacity. Finally. I am of the opinion that §377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure contradicts §76 and 139 of the Constitution in their combined effect. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U10	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor, there are also questions for you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U11	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! There was no member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, which was held some time ago. Later, I saw from the online news that, at the exact same time as the committee meeting was held, he had to be in the Defence Police Office for questioning. At the time, we did not have any such vote in the Commission, the result of which could have been different because of the absence of this Member, but it cannot be ruled out that the absence of one Member may have an impact on the outcome of the vote. ELAK's views, as you know, are binding on both the government and the state as a whole. The question here: in this case, could one of the members of the Commission be called lawful during the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U12	I have not dealt with this particular matter, but my initial opinion is that there is no obligation. As I emphasised in my presentation, the MP exercises a free mandate. After all, through a free mandate, the will of the people, the electorate, and if the exercise of this mandate is hindered, then this kind of action, I mean, would be an obligation contrary to the Constitution. But I don't know whether or not it was an obligation in this case or whether it was voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U13	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U14	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! I'm going to ask you as Chancellor of Justice and as top lawyer. Suppose your proposal is approved by the Riigikogu, the process is reversed and we essentially come back to the previous wording in the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the meantime, several members of the Riigikogu, as suspects, have been subject to investigations. Hence my question: if the Riigikogu confirms that this whole process has so far been unconstitutional, how will you assess the value of the evidence gathered during this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U15	In general, I expected such a question. We are now discussing a specific provision of the Procedural Code against the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice also plays a very specific role in specific criminal matters, but as Chancellor of Justice, I know nothing about these criminal matters. Yeah, I'm a page reader, and I know as much as the press has shown up, but there's no way the Chancellor of Justice can form a position. So I'm really sorry, but I owe you an answer. First we solve this question, then we look at the following things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U16	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I ask the Chancellor of Justice in the light of today's proposal quite specifically: could a specific investigation, such as a search, carried out in relation to a member of the Riigikogu before the majority of the Riigikogu has given its consent, be unconstitutional in itself or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U18	Thank you! Yes, as I have also pointed out in my proposal: since this is an intensive violation of the free mandate of the MP, it is contrary to the Constitution if it is not the consent of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U19	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U20	Thank you. As a non-lawary, could you simply explain to me the difference between immunity and immunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U21	Immunity as such acts in conjunction with immunity. We see that a member of the government also has a certain immunity. However, immunity is such a pretty broad and categorical concept. The simplest thing to say is that a MP, as a Member of Parliament, can do his job freely without fearing that the executive power will accidentally intervene in his activities. Yes, this immunity in conjunction with immunity is limited. In addition, immunity is an absolute guarantee, not a procedural guarantee, but a substantive guarantee. It is the principle that an ambassador can freely exercise his mandate, he can say anything in this chair, and this cannot under any circumstances be the basis for bringing the ambassador to justice. But yes, to put it simply, immunity is that an ambassador can freely and unhindered exercise the free mandate received from the electorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U22	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U23	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question relates a little to the previous question. There are also many other constitutional institutions under the special procedural arrangements, not only the Riigikogu, whose member is discussed in this case. In some cases, would this be justified in the case of other institutions, even your own office or the President? The terms of the mandate are different. If the next government comes to power, which does not like the elected president of the current Riigikogu, it could use the same repressive methods to get rid of the elected president of the old Riigikogu, using the executive power in its possession. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U24	The current proposal concerns only members of the Riigikogu, because only members of the Riigikogu have the immunity clause laid down in § 76 in principle as such. I have not analysed other high-ranking civil servants, but a constitutional defence system has been set up so that criminal proceedings cannot be carried out entirely freely. There are, after all, mutual guarantee mechanisms for the President, the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General. They're real. In the context of this proposal, I have not analysed them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U25	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 14, in which the Chancellor of Justice proposes to the Riigikogu to bring §377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution, i.e. the Constitution. a meeting on 3 April. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, his advisor and adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu participated as guests. During the sitting, Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, explained his proposal, pointing out the main point. Paragraph 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure must be brought into line with the Constitution, as these provisions are clearly incompatible with § 76 of the Constitution. According to § 76 of the Constitution, a member of the Riigikogu is inviolable and can only be held liable for criminal liability with the consent of the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. In the above-mentioned version of the Code of Criminal Procedure, an important principle such as the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu was forgotten. If a member of the Riigikogu has been declared untouchable on the basis of the Constitution, there is a procedural obstacle, the departure of which can only be decided by the Riigikogu itself. The Constitution provides for the parliamentary guarantee of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the Riigikogu, which can only be removed by Parliament itself, and this is expressly provided for in the Constitution. One way of eliminating the constitutional contradiction of these provisions would be to enforce the former version, which actually existed for years and which did not have major problems. The main reason for introducing the provisions of the Code of Penal Procedure was procedural economic considerations, but they cannot have an advantage over the guarantees clearly laid down in the Constitution. At the same meeting of the Commission, its members also asked the Chancellor of Justice a number of questions. It was asked, for example, whether the provisions of the previous version of the Code of Criminal Procedure had serious shortcomings in the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice replied that there were minor shortcomings, but they were rather nuances. As an example of a deficiency in the previous version, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out a ten-day period for the return of the application, which, in his view, is clearly too short. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice found that the previous version generally worked and that there was practice. Members of the Commission were also interested in the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice as to whether the previous version prevented criminal investigations from taking place in any way. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder replied that criminal proceedings are an intensive violation of the fundamental rights of individuals, and therefore certain guarantees must also apply. The immunity of members of the Riigikogu is an additional guarantee provided by the Constitution, as the parliament is independent of the executive power. I would point out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs commissioned an opinion from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu at the end of January this year on the compliance of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure with § 76 of the Constitution. The opinion was received by the Commission. a on March 15, 2004. The author of the opinion considered that the regulation concerning the immunity of the current Code of Criminal Procedure was contrary to § 76 of the Constitution and proposed as a solution that it would be reasonable to restore the previous version of the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As a result of the above, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided by consensus to propose that the Assembly support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 14 to bring §377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U27	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Let's keep going. I ask for a presentation of the Deputy Chair of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs has designed s. a on 2 April, with regard to proposal No 14 by the Chancellor of Justice, which proposes that § 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure be brought into conformity with the Constitution. The participants were Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder and Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Saale Laos, Marko Pomerants, Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Neeme Suur, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere. The debate was broadly the same as that reported by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I'd like to bring out what we were talking about. The Chancellor of Justice introduced his proposal and stated that § 377 of the Code of Criminal Procedure...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U29	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please, let's respect the waitress! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U30	Thank you. The Chancellor of Justice noted that § 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure is contrary to §§ 76 and 139 of the Constitution as regards their interaction, which, instead of the Riigikogu, give the Chancellor of Justice the power to give consent or refuse to consent to the member of the Riigikogu to conduct procedural proceedings in criminal proceedings, as well as to the part which does not provide for the consent of the Riigikogu to conduct a search of a member of the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice also noted that procedural economics in criminal proceedings is not a sufficient argument and does not eliminate the incompatibility of these provisions with the Constitution. The Riigikogu cannot be subordinated to the executive power even with the consent of the Chancellor of Justice. The free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu can only be limited to the same collection, i.e. with the consent of the Riigikogu. The rule of law would disappear if the entire legal space were subject to the efficiency of the procedure. On the basis of § 142 (1) of the Constitution and § 17 of the Chancellor of Justice Act, the Riigikogu has been proposed to bring the above provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution. The members of the committee asked questions about the role of Chancellor of Justice, as well as the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice on the constitutionality of the provisions of the immunity procedure of the former member of the Riigikogu. According to the Chancellor of Justice, § 377 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in force before 1 September 2011 was acceptable. This was valid for years and Estonian society was able to do so. The problem was the short deadline of 10 days for the Chancellor of Justice to return the application to the Public Prosecutor's Office in § 377 (7) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Chancellor of Justice found that he did not have the role of judge and does not have the role of dove, but the Chancellor of Justice must also have the opportunity to say no. The questioning-related regulation was discussed in § 377 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was in force both in force and before 1 September 2011. Neither version provides for the consent of the Riigikogu in order to interrogate a member of the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice explained that the member of the Riigikogu is able to find the right time in case of an interrogation, with the agreement of the judge, because participation in the work of the Riigikogu is an acceptable reason not to appear. It was found that the solution would be to refer to the version of § 377 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in force before September 2011. The various aspects of the immunity procedure of a member of the Riigikogu could be dealt with in depth and essentially in the future, as this is a complex problem. So what did the Commission decide? The Commission decided unanimously to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring §377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Criminal Code into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U31	Thank you, good waitress! You have at least one question. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U32	Thank you. Was the Commission mentioned or, if not, what is your personal opinion on the surveillance activities carried out on members of the Riigikogu? I'll give you an example. In my previous post, access to state secrets was required, and I signed that certain operations could be carried out against me for the next three or four years. This period includes membership of the Riigikogu. Does this mean that my immunity and immunity can somehow be violated because I have ever had access to state secrets?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U33	Thank you for your question. This issue was not discussed in the Commission. If I answer from my own personal point of view, I believe that it is very seriously necessary to review several laws in relation to a particular member of the Riigikogu. My quick answer today from this remote is that it can't be more like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U34	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U35	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue on this subject. You said you didn't think you could. But is there any control mechanism that gives a clear overview of whether or not, for example, any action has been taken on a particular member of the Riigikogu who asked for the previous question? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U36	Thank you for your question. After all, we have a committee set up in the Riigikogu, which supervises certain surveillance activities. In fact, it is possible to remove and verify whether, when and for whom surveillance activities have been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U37	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U38	Good colleague! Is it not the case that these are different things, surveillance procedures in criminal proceedings and security clearance in the context of keeping state secrets?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U39	Thank you for your question. It depends on whether we are looking at the position of a member of the Riigikogu or whether we are looking at institutional permissions, for example, to carry out surveillance activities. My point is that it can be verified, and one way to do this is the Kapo Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U40	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear colleagues, would you like to negotiate? You'd like to. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U41	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning for me too. I wanted to make a few remarks, I wouldn't even call it a negotiation, but here's the deal. What's got me scratching my head about this whole thing? First of all, this lack or weakening of immunity does not affect most of us. The weakening of immunity may have affected me by the fact that I suffered from flu twice in the autumn and one viral pneumonia in the spring. But I don't think there's anything the Chancellor of Justice can do here. Our hearing today should make us wonder why we are making so many mistakes lately. The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted at the end of the previous term will be improved, if I am not mistaken, for the second time. We have postponed the entire package of large surveillance procedures until 2013, rather, it stopped their entry into force and postponed this year. In essence, the issue of immunity is also a remnant of the same package. In his letter to the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice made a very important statement, and I recall this: 'The importance of immunity today is to protect opposition representatives in Parliament from possible attempts by a coalition-based government to persecute, discredit or influence them in public. ' I, of course, want to believe that at this point, this process is certainly not motivated by this reason, but rather by making the procedure as economical, quick and comfortable as possible. But all this has to take into account that comfortable criminal proceedings, the most comfortable criminal proceedings in our recent history, both in our history and in the history of the country that occupied us in the past, the Troika of 1937 is the most comfortable and fastest criminal proceedings. I think maybe in our legal space some justice will see something like this in his dream, work would be a lot easier. Rather, in making this decision today and in the future, it should be thought that these codes, which are mostly not directly relevant to members of the Riigikogu but concern the general public more widely, can, through procedural economics, make the rule of law, for which we have been working for 20 years, very thinner. Crime is an ugly phenomenon, but if children are thrown out, as they say, with washing water, together with the fight against crime, it is a slightly harsher situation. I would like to put it to you that today we are actually deciding not on our immunity, but on the future of our rule of law. I think there could be no very different thinking here, because today's opposition could be a coalition tomorrow and vice versa, and someone's influence to make it easier could also become a desire to direct these processes. However, I think that, in addition to the rule of law, we in our committees, when we have draft laws, should pay attention to why there is a desire to change things very quickly and who are the real initiators of it. Perhaps, in the case of this bill, the media, who we have, as they say, the fourth power, could be interested in the way in which such a bill came into existence, the initiative in which it arose, from whom it came, and why it came into our legal space so suddenly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U42	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U43	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Our group supports the Chancellor of Justice's proposal because, indeed, according to the legislative amendment that came into force last September, the state institution subordinate to the executive power, and the prosecutor's office certainly does, the right to carry out a number of investigations against a member of the Riigikogu and even apply a restraining order before the Riigikogu consents to the drafting of the indictment. And the trend in criminal proceedings right now is that the indictment is the last document to end the investigation. We believe that obtaining the consent of the Riigikogu to draft an indictment has, in fact, made asking Parliament for consent from the point of view of immunity a matter of which practically nothing depends. We are of the opinion that the question of immunity of a member of the Riigikogu within the meaning of this law is not only a violation of the parliamentary immunity mentioned in § 76 of the Constitution, but also of the part that deals, for example, with the freedom of expression of a Member. Freedom of expression in today's terms means not only the right to speak freely and to express one's opinion, but also the right to receive and disseminate the information necessary for their work. Today's debate is further supported by the fact that the Constitutional Committee of the Republic of Estonia has said many years ago that the importance of parliamentary immunity and the need to protect opposition representatives in Parliament from possible attempts by a coalition-based government to persecute, discredit or influence them against the public by means of a state apparatus. In this sense, the speakers who referred to this question were right. What should we do now? Our group is of the opinion that, since for years there was a legal provision that was in force before September last year, it is probably appropriate to restore the former situation by means of a legislative amendment, to restore the former version. We agree that, in a sense, this earlier wording may make it difficult for the prosecutor's office, for example, to take evidence for an indictment. However, the taking of evidence for an indictment is, in the sense of the Constitution, an act that is so, so much as a violation of the rights of individuals, and it does not have to be easy in itself. However, it must also be borne in mind that until now, as a result of the examination of the requests of the Chancellor of Justice, the Riigikogu has always been granted the right to conduct an investigation. This agreement has been essentially unproblematic, the Riigikogu has consented in all cases and the criminal cases have reached the stage of judicial investigation. We are now suggesting that we go on the road to amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U44	Thank you. I would like the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U45	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, My speech is due to a rational approach to this pink paper by the Chancellor of Justice. As we know, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we currently have the so-called 'trace package', or amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I do have a firm plan to turn this draft into a law before Midsummer, according to the Commission's work programme. This could be one way to return to the old situation most rationally, with one change. A separate subject on which the Chancellor of Justice has come to a close is whether the ten days he has been assigned to study matters are sufficient. With this deadline, we will certainly achieve consensus, and then we would have been restored to our former situation. Which does not rule out the possibility of starting a debate, for example, on the initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to take a closer approach to all the issues of immunity and to plan the time for this in a calm manner. That's the suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-05_U46	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Good fellows! We are about to prepare for the vote on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 73 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. Good fellows! As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, I hereby instruct the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 152 of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, to initiate a draft to bring the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. That is what we have dealt with on the agenda. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.51 a.m.
