ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! Prime Minister and other members of the Government of the Republic! Good guests! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the February 15th briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. 38 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 63 are missing. Dear colleagues, since nine questions have been put in advance today, I have a request for up to two more questions to be submitted on-the-spot on each of the main issues. Let's get on with our briefing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U2	The first question of Question Time has been asked by Kadri Simson, a member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Andrus Ansip answers that question. The topic is Estonian tax policy. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U3	Prime Minister! Last week you lost your Question Time, and I think that not only in our Chamber but also in the wider public will expect a more meaningful speech from you today. A week ago, you announced that raising consumption taxes has been a clear political choice for you and did not see the problem of poorer families having to bear a relatively higher tax burden. You said that the regressivity of consumption taxes is evened out by the tax-free income of the individual. The tax-free rate of individual income was last increased in 2008 and life has become much more costly in four years. When is there hope that your political choice will fall to increase the tax-free minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U4	Of course, we would like to increase the tax-free minimum and also lower taxes, but, unfortunately, not only Europe, but the whole world has been hit by a crisis, and we cannot say today that the crisis is over for Europe either. On the contrary, more and more alarming news is that the crisis may get worse in the coming weeks. So it's not appropriate to expect me to have some super-optimistic approach to the future right now. We have done quite well in the crisis compared to other countries of the European Union, and I am sure that in the near future, Estonia will be much better prepared for this than we were prepared for the post-Lehman Brothers events.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U5	The first question to be specified, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U6	Prime Minister! In 2000, the reinvested profits of companies were exempt from income tax in Estonia. On 30 January Äripäev focuses on cases where tax is not paid, but profit is not invested in Estonia either. Instead, a scheme is used whereby large companies grant an unlimited loan to a parent company abroad, or the money is paid out on the basis of a reduction in equity capital. Given that such schemes are not available to small and medium-sized enterprises with Estonian capital, do you not consider it necessary to restore corporate income tax to prevent such tax avoidance by foreign companies? In a difficult state budget situation, this would bring significant additional revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U7	No, under no circumstances do I consider it necessary to change the corporate tax system so that reinvested profits become taxable again. Scientists of the University of Tartu quite recently carried out a very thorough study on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, and its unambiguous conclusion is that the current corporate tax system has benefited Estonia very much. It would be worth more trusting in in-depth research, not in opinions based on someone's sense of the moment. I do not understand those people who were surprised when Swedbank decided to take its profits in Latvia, from which income tax has also been paid there, to Sweden. But we have concluded agreements with very many countries to avoid double taxation! This is more natural for Latvia. Only recently do we decide to conclude a similar agreement with Uzbekistan. Where is the idea to start dreaming about double taxation of income in the same way that income has been earned in Latvia and that income has been taxed in Latvia? In the case of Estonia, of course, if dividends are to be removed, they must be paid income tax. Only reinvested profits are not taxed in Estonia. As soon as the owner starts to withdraw the income, it is subject to income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U8	Second point, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U9	Prime Minister! You very well discussed this example of 2010 when Swedbank paid EUR 750 million without paying taxes in Estonia, of which EUR 518 million came from a reduction in equity capital, which left EUR 100 million unearned in the state budget. To understand the order of magnitude, it is almost as much as the budget of the city of Tartu for the whole year. According to Äripäev, several companies operating on the Tallinn Stock Exchange used the same scheme. Do you consider this to be ethical, and do you not see any problem in this case? Can't you see a problem even if the parent company is granted an unlimited loan for an indefinite period of time and the Estonian state is therefore not receiving taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U10	Of course, I see no need to tax a reduction in equity. Suppose you set up a private limited company and paid in 40,000 kroons, now in euros. And one day you looked at the business not flying back, you took back the company. Should we pay taxes on that 40,000? You've already paid those taxes once. If the equity has been paid up, the parent company has contributed money and then withdraws some part of the equity because the equity has become disproportionate to the foreign capital involved, it does not mean that it should pay taxes for its own money. I can't imagine a country like this somewhere. Estonia should not become such a country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U11	Thank you. Good fellows! Before discussing this issue, I said that up to two on-the-spot questions are allowed for each of the main issues. Unfortunately, I can't do anything, our IT support hasn't lasted, and all the questions went out on the screen. At first there was the queue of questions posed by Valdo Randpere, Urve Palo and Heimar Lenk, now being Heimar Lenk, Urve Palo and Valdo Randpere. I will compromise so that, in the context of this issue, I promise three issues registered on the ground, we will not harm anyone. Let's get started. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U12	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Last week's Question Time, I asked you why the price of petrol is so much as a 50% tax. You told me that certainly wasn't the case and that I didn't get it right, like with ACTA. Now I will bring you Estonian national statistics, which say that the price of petrol is 0.42 euros and VAT 0.21 euros. Thus, the cost price of petrol is approximately 50% of the final price and VAT and excise duty is approximately 50% of the final price. Now I ask you, Prime Minister: do you trust the official statistics of Estonia or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U13	Of course, I trust official statistics, and I would like you to trust official statistics, too, and not only Estonia's, but also Eurostat's. I remember exactly that I told you that, at a lower level than Estonia, only Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria have excise duties on petrol. In all other countries, the rate of excise duty on petrol is much higher than in Estonia. Now the other half of the answer to the question: why is the excise duty on petrol as high as it is then the fourth most small in the European Union? Why are we even asking for excise duty? But because we need to pay teachers and there is not enough social tax to pay pensions. For that, too, we need money. If we didn't collect the excise duty, we'd have a huge gap in the state budget. Still, to pay social benefits to pay public employees, we have this excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U14	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U15	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Although you have a very beautiful blue tie in front of you, unfortunately your talk about Estonian tax policy is not convincing at all. All the more so since five years ago, when you promised to take us to the five wealthiest countries in your advertising before the elections, you set an example for Denmark, Norway and Finland. We all know that the tax policy there, including the proportion of indirect and direct taxes, is quite different from what we worship here in Estonia and which is more like the Russian and Bulgarian policies. My question is: how do you intend to reach the Nordic level by keeping Estonia's tax policy the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U16	I don't know what that has to do with my beautiful blue tie. But all right, thank you for the compliment! You have a very nice blue costume today, but I assumed you had the brownest complexion today. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U17	I have a request to my fellow Members in the Riigikogu and members of the Government of the Republic that we maintain our mutual respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U18	But now, the relationship between these direct and indirect taxes. Too bad you weren't here last time in Riigikogu Question Time, we talked about this for quite a while. Or was that the last time? There is plenty besides Russia, and I do not remember who else you mentioned, those countries where the share of indirect taxes is quite high and where the tax burden is much lower than in Estonia, but where the gross domestic product per capita is, despite the fact that the overall tax burden is lower than in Estonia, much higher than it is in Estonia. For example, let us look at the countries of Europe. Switzerland, Slovakia, they have a very clear lower tax burden than Estonia, while income per capita, i.e. GDP per capita, is better than in Estonia. Ireland is certainly such a country. We take from other parts of the world: Canada, the United States, Chile, the overall tax burden is much lower than in Estonia, but GDP per capita is higher than in Estonia. Australia, South Korea, Japan, New Zealand's tax burden is much lower than in Estonia, while GDP per capita is much higher than in Estonia. It is therefore pointless to attribute a destructive role to a small tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U19	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U20	Thank you. By way of introduction, I have to say that I did not understand the compromise. If, as a result of the compromise, I remain the last and Heimar Lenk was able to ask a question for which he was not entitled at all, then this is an interesting approach to the compromise. But that's it. I have another question for the Prime Minister. Since the Centre Party and the Social Democrats seem very concerned about how much money will be left to people after tax and other taxes have been paid, how do you assess: will the boat tax, sales tax and 66% increase in land tax in Tallinn in its own time be taxes that help people to retain more money after they have paid off their income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U21	The question is, of course, rhetorical and the answer is known in advance. Of course, these taxes increase the overall tax burden, and we know that much of this money is simply going to be propaganda. Therefore, this tax burden is not justified at all. Tax collection is justified when people also receive benefits for them. In the case of a state, pensions, social benefits, defence, internal security, these are the benefits for which taxes are paid. To remind Urve Palo once again: On the contrary, the Social Democrats in Tallinn City Council were in the coalition when sales tax and boat tax were introduced in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U22	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U23	Let us move on to the next question. It is presented by Riigikogu member Helmen Kütt, Jaak Aaviksoo, member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is education for children with special educational needs. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Major reforms are currently taking place in the education landscape, the reform of higher education is a change in the number of upper secondary schools. But my question is about schools for children with special needs, both educational and educational children with special needs. Is it decided or deciding which schools where these children are studying here I am not referring to Kaagvere and Tapa, but precisely to schools with open doors for children with special needs? How can information be obtained? With this question, I have been approached by a number of parents who have concerns about their children studying at such a school.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U25	Good questioner! Indeed, in addition to many other areas of education, a small revision and a longer look into the future are also needed for schools for children with special educational needs. In particular, to bring the quality of education services provided to these children to a high level and in line with the modern perceptions of meeting specific educational needs. There are currently around 139000 students in general education in Estonia, of which 24000, or 17% of the total number of students, have some special educational needs, according to the Estonian education and information system. Seventeen percent, twenty-four thousand! Among these children with special educational needs are those who need special teaching conditions, i.e. basically special schools, so that their special needs can be met. There are 3,700 such children and they study in 43 schools for children with special educational needs. 25 are public schools and the rest are municipal and private schools. However, such a school network and the services provided there do not meet the needs of children with special educational needs. During this year, I have asked the Ministry of Education to conduct an analysis of the network of schools for children with special educational needs and, on this basis, to make a long-term public school network plan and related investment decisions, in particular with a view to the forthcoming financial perspective of the European Union. So today I am not ready to give you a specific answer that the perspective of these schools is this and that of those schools, but I will certainly be able to do so after a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U26	Minister, your time! Helmen Hunter, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister. I understand that it is probably better to ask a question in the form of a question about specific schools than can be answered now, because discussions are ongoing. But I have a question because of yesterday's presentation by the Minister of Justice, where he introduced developments in criminal policy until 2020. He also mentioned that the cost of maintaining one person in detention is indicatively EUR 1 000. How do you feel about regional policy and the fact that such a school may be expensive when it comes to making such decisions, but it is very important that these children can still study at school and do not get into a bad way because of leaving school? Are different ministries working together in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U28	There were two questions. Should I count on it? The answer is yes. And do different ministries cooperate? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U29	The second point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Although you have already answered two questions, I will take this opportunity to ask another question. The project was initiated to create better study conditions for students with special needs. I am talking specifically about the Vastselina school. It was found to be a very necessary school. It's been working for 50 years, and it's actually the only school that deals with poorly advanced children in school because of mental damage. It was considered that investment should be made there. However, state real estate AS declares that they will not build the bush. Is it like a regional political decision or how to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U31	I don't know how to comment on the construction policy of the RKAS, especially in terms of investment in brush. However, as far as schools for children with special educational needs are concerned, a regional solution should, of course, be ensured, as well as a specific solution for children with special educational needs. This should be in line with needs on the one hand and with real opportunities on the other. Regrettably, the solution is not to try to divide poverty around, because in this case everyone will suffer as a result. Unfortunately, today, children with special educational needs, especially in those schools that were created for them, have learning, life and other conditions far from what could be considered acceptable in Estonia in 2012. A solution must be found, but, unfortunately, decisions must also be based on what is sustainable and necessary and what is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U32	Now two issues registered on the spot. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Education! My question is that these children with special educational needs are now going to mainstream school. Is there a provision for helping teachers? These children are slightly different from others and need more care and attention. I also have concerns about what happens to those comprehensive school and upper secondary school teachers who are now being dismissed due to the shrinking school network. Are they scheduled to be retrained to be applied in specialties that are close to their profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U34	There were two questions again. Studying children with special educational needs in a regular school, so-called inclusive learning, is such a pedagogical principle that is increasingly used in developed countries and it is certainly reasonable to use it in Estonia as well. The funding of schools, at least from the state budget, also includes such additional costs, which are earmarked for this purpose. So I think this approach is reasonably balanced. However, as far as teacher retraining is concerned, I believe that panicking preparations for the release of tens of thousands of teachers may have spread to your party. I'm not aware of the massive dismissals that somebody's been planning somewhere. With regard to retraining, follow-up and further training of staff, there are national structures for this, as well as state budget funding. I believe that these funds must be used for their intended purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U35	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U36	Mr President-in-Office of the Riigikogu. Good minister! When we look at educational policies in teaching children with special educational needs, you also said that we should be guided by the needs of the 21st century. Is it your position as minister that boys and girls in schools for children with special needs are ready to study in our regular schools or do you consider it important to keep special schools for certain children? And if you must, maybe in one minute you can also answer, for which children should special schools remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U37	First of all, I'd like to start with special educational needs. It is a relatively broad concept and it is very broad in Estonia. The specific needs of education are also particularly important, and some of them can even cope. As regards those who have problems in terms of coping in a narrower sense and whose specific educational needs are linked to health problems that significantly impede learning under the standard programme, three approaches are planned in the long term. One is when children study in mainstream schools, using the additional services that their special educational needs require. Another option is that children with special educational needs have separate classes in mainstream schools. And the third option, we call it the extreme special educational need, is then schools that are invited and set to care for the special educational needs that children need to learn in a special school. All of these three will remain valid in the perspective. But if the number is 24000 or 17% of students, the majority of them should continue in general education and with other students. It is estimated that 4% of students need a specific environment, half of them in separate educational institutions and the rest in regular schools. This is the approach on which the future is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U38	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U39	Let us move on to the next question by Mrs Tuus-Laul. This is answered by Andrus Ansip and the theme is the living standards of families. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U40	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! My question concerns poverty. These are quite startling figures that have already been highlighted by Statistics Estonia in November last year and which have been further investigated by the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. At the end of the year, I asked you about it, but I didn't get an answer. I'm going to go over these facts today. We know that one in four children, i.e. 63000 children in Estonia, lives in poverty or at risk of poverty. Below the absolute poverty line, 45000 children, or 18.6%, lived in 2010, 8.9% of them in deep poverty. Not to mention relative poverty and the risk of poverty. These figures have increased more than twice as compared to 2007, for example. The question is: what has happened? You've said something completely different behind this microphone, and you've promised something completely different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U41	Once again, I have to say that what happened was that there was a crisis. I am, in itself, pleased that we consider the biggest boom year - 2007 - to be normal. And that we consider it abnormal for years when economic growth was not 7.5% or 10% during the boom. It is clear to everyone that poverty, including child poverty, is an unemployed face. Poverty is most closely correlated with unemployment. When people lose their jobs, the risk of falling into poverty or poverty is very high. When we compare the current level of relative poverty in Estonia with that of other European Union Member States, we see that others are even worse - we are on the right side. The same goes for child poverty: we are better off. But there's no way I'm willing to say we have a good situation. Even if we are at risk of poverty for children, the seventh largest risk in the European Union, the situation is still very bad. The most secure solution is job creation and last year was good for Estonia over expectations. In particular, thanks to Estonia's accession to the euro area, many foreign direct investments came here and created many new jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U42	The first question to be specified, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U43	Thank you. Even one and a half or two months ago, when I was talking about deep poverty and families and children living below the limit of absolute poverty, you started talking about relative poverty. There has been a change in methodology and this is not my question at all right now. But if you say poverty is an unemployed face, then I ask: why has our country done nothing with the long-term unemployed? I'll get you the numbers, we've had a sharp increase in that figure. In 2010, 45% of all unemployed people had been unemployed in Estonia for a year or more. I imagine we should have taken every possible measure by then. But in 2011, they were already 57%. This figure has grown a lot in two years. Why are we not taking measures that will really help? In addition, we have a very high share of the long-term unemployed among young people, and this is how such a lost generation arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U44	The claim that we are not doing anything is certainly not appropriate. According to Eurostat data, last year unemployment in Estonia decreased most rapidly in the European Union, which obviously means that there are still some things that have been done. Of course, unemployment is still high, but I believe that these foreign direct investments, which have already come to Estonia and which are coming, will create even more jobs. This will certainly reduce both relative poverty and the number of people living in absolute poverty. Unfortunately, I can't make promises. As I said, it is very difficult to make some serious predictions in Europe and throughout the world at this time, there are many unexpected events. Fortunately, these unexpected ones have nothing to do with our domestic problems; they can come from another euro zone or from a wider Member State of the European Union. I will also present a statistical comparison so that my arguments can be confirmed. In absolute poverty, 20.3% of children aged between 0 and 15 lived in 2004, 9.4% in 2007, 18.1% in 2010. So we have fallen back to almost 2004 levels in poverty, although not exactly there. I very much hope that poverty will decrease in Estonia in the future; unemployment has already decreased significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U45	The second point, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U46	Thank you. I dare say that 4% of children and families lived in deep poverty in 2007, 8.9% in 2010. I've got the Statistics Department table right here. And there's more. You said that with unemployment, it's like it's going to get better. However, long-term unemployment is currently increasing, we are on the same line with Latvia and Lithuania in this respect, but we are on the worse side there. But I say that we also have a very large increase in income support. While 59000 people received it in 2008, it was already 165200 in 2010. So it's tripled. I really want to ask you this. I know that many poor families do not receive this income support, because children's benefits are also included in the family's income, as if it were a working income. The rich and the middle class get, but the deep poor don't get child benefits. When will this injustice be eliminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U47	Everyone still receives child benefits, even if they are severely poor or poor. But I did not understand your claim on unemployment in Latvia and Lithuania. This argument is certainly not true again. When comparing the effectiveness of family benefits with that of other European Union countries, statistics confirm that the Estonian family benefit system is much more effective than on average in the European Union. Our social transitions are helping much more people to overcome either the risk of poverty or deep poverty than in the European Union on average. Which, of course, does not mean that we cannot make our family benefit system even more effective. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U48	And now two questions registered on the spot. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U49	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, my compliment on your tie was related to your compliment on my red dress address two hours ago. One polite person responds to a compliment. But your good colleague, Valdo Randpere, did not have to wait two and a half months to address you, good Andrus, with the question of whether or not the Social Democrats were in power when the sales tax was introduced. In a month's time, I specifically apologized to the Riigikogu and to your colleague. So that's a long time ago, isn't it? However, my current question concerns child poverty and the situation in Estonia in general. I got my mail this morning for the Reform Party ad. Among other things, it says: 'The Reform Party is better for all of Estonia. " My question is: Who are all these people? If we have 65,000 children today who are in poverty, we have 50,000 unemployed, people leave Estonia, protest waves are increasing, teachers are starting to strike, who are you standing for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U50	We stand up for the people of Estonia. If our public finances had been let out of hand, as in many other countries, we could hardly talk about Estonia, as we currently have. It is worth watching TV news and thinking that what is happening in very many countries, not only in Europe but throughout the world, could have been a reality for Estonia as well. We do not have any guarantees given by the almighty that there will be no foolishness in the Estonian country. Let us recall the year 2007: growth of 7.5%, unemployment continued to decline. Would we like to live in a crisis where unemployment is 4%? The surplus of the budget in the general government sector was the largest in Estonia's history - 6.5 billion kroons we placed in reserves. Yet, at that time, the government was called upon to revive the economy by introducing reserves. Friends, if we had done so, on the basis of the behaviour of several other countries of the European Union, it can be said that the Estonian state would have incurred government debt, which would amount to about a third of the gross domestic product. Are the situation better in those countries that, in terms of Estonia, received an additional debt burden of 70 to 80 billion kroons in the face of the crisis? I say, why are they on strike? Why are they burning cars? Why are they breaking glasses? I think Estonia has been quite well managed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U51	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U52	Thank you. Prime Minister! If in other countries the state has a debt burden, then in Estonia there is a significant debt burden for our people. But I would like to come back to the question of Estonian children. I see that the Ministry of Finance has a document that states that this year's budget has reduced the amounts planned for family allowances to EUR 3.65 million, as the number of recipients of child benefits has decreased. At the same time, it is reported that the cost of parental benefit has increased by EUR 3.99 million due to an increase in the number of births. Now, if I quote to you the Statistical Office, we can see that according to Statistics Estonia, last year there was a severe drop in birth rates. In fact, 1112 children were born less than in 2010. Is that what you call effectiveness when, with an ever lower number of children, more and more spending is made on parental benefits, but money is saved on child benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U53	The parental benefit system is certainly a very good system. It has given a great many young mothers and fathers confidence in having a child. Very many people have also claimed, according to statistical studies, that they would not have acquired a third child if there were no parental benefit system. But neither one system can perform miracles. Children, of course, are born of love, and I do not think that last year there was a great lack of love in Estonia. Demographers say it is not appropriate to make comparisons on the basis of one year's birth rate. A more or less comparable picture can be obtained by using three-year averages and comparing them with those of other countries or their own country in previous periods. I have also said before in this speech that private debt and public debt are not correlated across the European Union. There is no correlation that, if the government debt is low, private debt must be high and vice versa. In the case of Estonia, such claims are not true either. According to my memory, the debt burden of Estonian private individuals is about 54% of gross domestic product, which is not what we should be ashamed of in the context of the European Union. It's rather small than big. Private debt, yes, we have an average level in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U54	Prime Minister, your time is up! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U55	Let's go to question four. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, corresponding to Andrus Ansip, member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is family and education policy. And also on this issue, there are up to two locally registered issues. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U56	Prime Minister! I agree with you that children are born of love, but children must also be raised. The Spring 2006 European Council committed itself to taking all necessary measures to rapidly and substantially reduce child poverty, ensuring equal opportunities for all children, regardless of their social origin. In 2008, the Social Protection Committee published a report on child poverty analysing its main causes by country. The report also included 15 recommendations on how to better monitor and assess child poverty and well-being. I have not noticed that any of these recommendations have been implemented in Estonia. Hence my question: are the causes of poverty among Estonian children so peculiar that there is no point in taking into account the experiences and agreements of other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U57	I don't agree again! We have taken very much from good practice in other countries. If you have been watching today's newspapers, such as Postimees online, you can read an article that claims to refer to euro statistics that child poverty is not the worst in Estonia. I think the problem is crazy, but not so bad compared to the other countries of the European Union. We cannot copy absolutely everything that is being done somewhere in Europe, because there are also countries in Europe where the number of children living in poverty is many times higher than in Estonia. We must take over what we are capable of taking over, given our level of prosperity. And we must take over what is good for Estonia. I think we've made quite a lot of progress, but there's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U58	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U59	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! Indeed, last year, we had over 1,100 fewer children, although the number of women of childbearing age is now at the top. So the light should start burning in the head, because the tendency that so few children are born is very terrible. I don't think I should wait three years to figure out what to do now. It's not possible to give birth in retrospect. We have a very good development plan for families with children, where there are specific policy recommendations that should be made to support the birth and growth of children in Estonia. My question, however, is this: what have you, as Prime Minister for the last seven years, have you done in April for our children and families? What new family policy initiatives have you approved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U60	I don't think there's a country in the world where the Prime Minister could consider the exponential increase in birth rates to be his favour, and I don't dare think it's my favour either. However, I would like to remind you that over the last seven years, Estonia has become one of the first four countries in the European Union in terms of birth rates, and this is undoubtedly a success story. Before we were the red lantern of the European Union, the land of the last three. But once again, it is not the Prime Minister's favour. Since what has been done in the last seven years, I also consider it very important to change the parental benefit system so that parental benefit is paid over a year and a half. There is a very strong link between parental benefit and the birth rate of children. This is not the kind of connection claimed by a politician, but is a link identified by independent investigators. It's a link with scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U61	And now the first point to be clarified. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U62	Thank you. Prime Minister! During Question Time in January, I was concerned that child support would not reach the children of the families most in need, i.e. the children of families living in deep poverty whose family receives income support. These children have to go through two euros a day. And maybe for months and years. My question to you is: how can you manage with EUR 61 per month?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U63	I couldn't! Like you, I can't handle 61 euros a month. But deep poverty is not a problem of child support and it is certainly not a problem of child support either. If you also look at the analysis of the Chancellor of Justice concerned, you will see that deep poverty is not even a financial problem, but a wider social problem. The question is whether people can cope with life at all, whether they can apply in society, not only in terms of work, but also in terms of behaviour at all. Can they be the way most people are? The approach to deep poverty must be clearly complex in nature and this path has been followed in Estonia. You referred to the family development plan. In this context, too, we have provided important assistance, even in the form of consultations, to people living in poverty. It is not a substitute activity, although it is often taken as a substitute. That you'd better give me some money, and then the troubles will work out. As you yourself said: in very many cases, for families living in deep poverty, money alone does not help. It doesn't get to the kids, and it doesn't help the adults either. On the contrary, merely giving money is, in many cases, detrimental to their condition, since it buys alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U64	The second point, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U65	Thank you. Prime Minister! Now you have insulted a great many Estonian women. 140 euros per month is the limit below which there is deep poverty. Let's say that the mother earns 290 euros a month, the minimum wage, there comes 19 euros of child support from the child and she has to support two children. He or she often has to apply for income support; he or she lives in deep poverty. My question is: do you really think that if the pay of the mothers of these families is so low, they will not be able to deal with their children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U66	Thank you. I don't know how much of an insult I've been doing so well lately. I was honest with you, I said I couldn't handle 61 euros. Should I lie? I won't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U67	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! You've really been doing a great job of insulting people lately and inviting them to the streets. I want to ask you as a follow-up to the previous question. You said that money is not important for poverty, that people are just helpless and drinkable, etc. I'll bring you a profile of the poor person from the Chancellor of Justice's report yesterday. It says: "Estonia's people are somehow hopeless, tired and angry, and they simply have no more resources when one in five children lives in poverty. ' Now, Prime Minister, I ask you: the country does not want to give money and the person has to get out of this situation without money, but tell me why there are so many helpless people, alcoholics, poor and outcasts in the country you run. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U69	We're getting back to the quotes and how somebody's gonna use your quotes later. I said money alone might not help. We need more support. I understand you're the one who just attributed me the claim that money doesn't matter. I didn't say that! I didn't even think like that! And I'm asking Channel 2 not to put what I'm saying here in the wrong context. Thank you. I don't think you've done that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U70	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U71	We will go to the fifth question put by the member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, is answered by Urmas Paet, a member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is the further processing of the anti-counterfeiting agreement and the experience of European countries. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U72	Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I have a question for you. In the light of the discussions and experiences that took place last week, I ask: how will the anti-counterfeiting agreement be further processed in Estonia and how has the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, or ACTA, in other European countries, progressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U73	I'll tell you about it, just so the side of the proceedings is finally clear. In Estonia, we are now at the stage where communication with all kinds of stakeholders is taking place, and in parallel, an explanatory memorandum to the draft decision is being drawn up. I'm sure it'll take some more time. In parallel, discussions and direct meetings with interest groups are held in the Riigikogu. I hope and expect that this will result in less misalignment and better understanding. Of course, it may not mean that everyone agrees with everything. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in charge of this process, but the Ministry of Justice and other ministries also contribute to this process. Yesterday, for example, I asked stakeholders to make their proposals. The bill goes on to the coordination circle of other ministries. And then, theoretically speaking, the procedure would be that the government would decide whether Estonia would sign this agreement. If Estonia were to sign this, the whole procedure would begin again in a sense. A draft ratification will be drawn up. It goes through all the coordination circles in the same way, then back to the government to finally get before Parliament for ratification. Unless that's how far they get. There are currently four other countries in the 27 EU countries besides Estonia: Slovakia, Cyprus, Germany and the Netherlands. These countries have not signed this agreement. The other 22 countries of the European Union have signed, but none of them have ratified it yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U74	The first point to be specified. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U75	Thank you. This is a very specific issue with regard to this anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. The secret of private correspondence is guaranteed by law in Estonia. Hacking other e-mail boxes and reading these letters are punishable. Most people in Estonia know and respect this, but not all of them. One question that some people are asking about the anti-counterfeiting agreement frequently, with fear, some hopefully, is whether, in connection with the adoption of ACTA, anything will change in this regard? Will the secret of private correspondence become less or more sacred when Estonia joins the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U76	According to the analysis of the Ministry of Justice, this concerned Estonian laws and the accession of legal space to the contract in Estonian law does not change anything in this area. Nothing in the Penal Code, for example, gets tougher. The second thing is the general moral and ethical space. I very much hope that the discussions on all these issues, which are also covered by the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, will raise society's awareness of these matters and that this will also improve the ethical and moral side of the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U77	The second point, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U78	Thank you. I don't know if you can give a really concrete answer to that, but I'd like to see your assessment of the next thing as a person who went abroad several times. From time to time, we've seen people having panic attacks. Quite recently, it is fresh in the mind that there was a panic in Latvia that Swedbank was about to go bankrupt. People rushed to withdraw money and lost who less, who more because of this transmission and panic. In Estonia we saw last week how some people panicked about this anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. They held gatherings because they felt that their freedom of expression and all other fundamental rights were now at risk. Can you name any reason or general mechanism? As I was saying, as a person who went abroad, you may have more experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U79	I suppose you have a TV, too, and you watch at least every once in a while on television what's going on abroad. Events like this, that people come to demonstrations and say one position and another, still occur in the world, and in many countries even more often than in Estonia. So there's nothing very specific about it or crazy about it. Of course, it could be our wish for all discussions and discussions to take place here in Estonia as constructively as possible. So that as much as possible can be said about a specific matter or problem and as little as possible can be called out in this context simply by slogans or somehow by increasing social stress. There is nothing bad or specific about coming out in cold weather to say what you think of yourself. But, for example, this week I already have the feeling that discussions with all kinds of stakeholders have become much more rational, and indeed the content of the agreement and the possible effects of the agreement are specifically mentioned both in the near future and in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U80	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government of the Republic for answering questions and for asking good colleagues. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U81	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fifth working week session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U82	Good afternoon. President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am submitting a draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act. The aim of the draft is to maintain the current situation with regard to the number of insured persons in unemployment insurance and to ensure the sustainability of the unemployment fund, i.e. the availability of funds at the employer's initiative for the payment of unemployment benefit in the event of termination of employment or service. The draft concerns the withdrawal of the supplementary unemployment insurance scheme, i.e. the right to unemployment benefit for insured persons who have ceased their employment or service relationship on their own initiative or in agreement with the parties. The additional scheme was planned to enter into force on 1 January 2013, and according to our draft it would not enter into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U83	Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 3 February the National Audit Office received a report intended for the Riigikogu on the pillar of the War of Independence. In connection with this report, we have an inquiry to the Secretary of Defense Mart Laar. Today's media has also asked whether it is not the opening of an old wound that we are discussing on this subject. However, we believe that such a report is a very important document among all other documents and who should then deal with this subject if not the Riigikogu. The National Audit Office has highlighted very important observations regarding the establishment of the victory pillar of the War of Independence. The National Audit Office considers that the main reason for the shortcomings in the construction of the Victory Pillar of the War of Independence was excessive haste. Due to the high time pressure, it was decided not to comply with the procedural rules of the Public Procurement Act and there was no substantive competition for the selection of the designer and project manager of the monument. Without organising the public procurement procedure, AS Telora-E was chosen to manage the project, which according to the Ministry of Defence was considered one of the best companies providing construction and project management services in Estonia. The National Audit Office's report also shows that there was no substantive competition for the selection of the monument pillar and cross manufacturer. It is also confusing how much money is spent on maintenance fees and how much money has been intended to be allocated from the state budget. We have a lot of questions for the Secretary of Defense. We hope that the Minister of Defence will be able to examine both the inquiry and the report and will give us meaningful answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U85	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present an inquiry on behalf of 13 members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, which includes voluntary health insurance. In particular, people who are not covered by health insurance contributions and who are mostly unemployed have the right and the possibility to enter into voluntary health insurance contracts, the monthly contributions of which are calculated from the average gross wage. They have to pay EUR 107 per month for health insurance and are forced to pay it because they will otherwise be deprived of health insurance. But they dare not miss it because anyone can get sick. If these premiums were calculated from the minimum wage, they would pay EUR 37,70, which is almost three times less. On behalf of these people, we are putting five questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, the most important of which is why health insurance contributions from the minimum wage should not be calculated, so that those who are without health insurance are also treated with lower living standards and often unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U87	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I and eight other members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to address Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Its subject is politicised civil society and the SA Foundation for Civil Society. The Foundation for Civil Society has noted as its mission to contribute, through the funding of organisations, innovative ideas and activities, to enhancing the operational capacity of the Estonian public associations and to shaping an environment conducive to active citizenship and civil society. The Head of the Civil Society Foundation is Agu Liat, member of the IRL, who is also an active politician in the IRL Group of Rae Vallavolikogu. In the light of recent events, it seems entirely natural that the current partner of the Prime Minister's party in the government uses state budget resources in the narrow and small political interests of a political party, even though they act in the shadow of a citizens' initiative. Therefore, it is not much of a surprise that the Foundation of Civil Society finances the newspaper Kalamajak, the editor-in-chief of which is the recent candidate for Chairman of the IRL. The editorial of this newspaper is written by the active member of the IRL, and no other parties have been noticed in this newspaper. The newspaper Kalamajakas has 8,000 prints, and the newspapers are distributed mainly in the chief editor's constituency. Under the label of civil society, one party has taken a clever action to take on better political positions before the local elections. Inevitably, it seems that the Government of the Republic has created the beautifully-sounding Foundation of Civil Society to buy the trust of the citizens of one of the largest local government departments by means of public funds and unfair practices. In this context, nine members of the Centre Party have four questions for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U89	Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U90	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the group, I am going to file an inquiry with the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. It's about closing Võnnu's rescue team. As we know, Võnnu's rescue command is extremely necessary both for South-East Tartu and North-Põlva County. The pretext for this closure is, as always, a small number of inhabitants in the region, a lack of life-saving capacity and economic savings. In fact, we know that there are over 5 000 people living in the area, which is the criterion, and there are also several wood companies, livestock farms, forest areas and bogs, nursing hospitals, nursing homes, upper secondary schools, kindergartens, etc. In addition, it is also a sparsely populated area where the rescue squad from Tartu or Räpina or Kõlva will not arrive in 20 minutes as it should. Very many rural municipalities of Hahaslava, Haaslava, Meeksi, Mooste, Mäksa, Võnnu have made a call to the heads of state for nothing, of course. In this regard, we have a number of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U91	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. According to Murphy's law, I've left my glasses behind, but luckily, for a letter tour in capital and the people's ambassador, my hands are relatively long. So, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu. According to the decision of the Riigikogu, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe would change the composition of the Estonian delegation so that in place of Indrek Rauds, who left us early, Liisa-Ly Pakosta would take this position. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U93	Eiki Nestor, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U94	Thank you, manager. I have a procedural proposal that the Bureau not take the draft of the Committee on Legal Affairs into the proceedings and ask the Reform Party Group and the IRL Group, who are its real authors, to initiate it themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U95	Thank you. I believe that when the Bureau discusses the appointment of a commission, it will certainly think about your observation. But on behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two drafts and four questions. According to the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U96	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 86 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. The draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U97	We will move on to the second item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 137 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U98	Let us move on to the third item, which is the second reading of the draft Act 138 on the Approval of Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Coordination of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Jaan Õunapuu, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U99	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the further processing of the draft law 138 at its meeting on 6 February. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. It must also be noted that the draft has been subject to a primary linguistic correction in the language department of Parliament, and three linguistic clarifications have been made to the text of the draft, on a proposal from the language editor and with the agreement of the initiator. The Commission's consensual decisions were as follows: to send the draft Act approving Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Coordination of Border Control of Goods, initiated by the Government, to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 15 February, with a proposal to conclude the second reading, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. As I said, these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U100	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No proposals have been received to amend bill 138. The position of the commission is that a final vote could also be taken at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 138 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. Draft Act 138 on the approval of Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Control of Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U101	We are going to the fourth item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act 154 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kalev Kallo, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U102	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 6 February. The Commission noted that no amendments had been received within the deadline. The Act ratifies the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion, which encourages investment, ensures equal treatment of persons and eliminates double taxation, which may arise as a result of the combined effect of the laws of two countries. It will also help to create additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: firstly, to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 15 February, i.e. today, to propose that the second reading be closed and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U103	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft 154 have been received, and the proposal of the commission is also a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 154 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U104	We are going to the fifth item on the agenda, namely the second reading of the draft ratification law 131 on central clearance of the Council of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic on determining the internal recovery costs to be retained for granting the EU budget of traditional own resources. I would like to ask Urve Palo, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Dear colleagues, I have a humble request for you: there is a huge noise in the hall, please let us be quieter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of this draft for second reading at its meeting on 9 February. On 18 January at 12 o'clock, no amendments were received to the Economic Committee from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. However, the Committee on Economic Affairs itself made one amendment aimed at bringing the title of this law into better alignment with § 21 (1) of the norm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U106	Dear waitress, I apologize on behalf of our colleagues. You and my conversations are pretty much interfering with working in the Chamber, so maybe we should both be even, so that these conversations can be held and continue with the Riigikogu sitting. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U107	According to this paragraph, the title of the draft law should express the scope of the draft as short as possible in general terms. According to the amendment, the new title of the draft would be 'the Council of the European Union Convention on determining the collection costs of central clearance of goods', even so it is difficult, not to mention the original wording. On 9 February the Economic Commission decided by consensus to send the draft to 131 Riigikogu for second reading today, 15 February, and the proposal is to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U108	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the 131 amendments to the draft. One amendment from the lead committee has been received. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is the final vote on the draft 131 at second reading, and we will begin preparations for the final vote. I will put draft 131 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. Draft Act 131 on ratification of the Council of the European Union Convention on the determination of collection costs for central customs clearance initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U109	We go to the sixth item, which is the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision entitled "Reimbursement of Claims Guaranteed by National VEB Foundation Certificates' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U110	Good day again. President-in-Office of the Council. Good guys in the hall! At its meeting on 7 February, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft decision on the reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates and had to admit that no amendments to the draft decision were received by the Riigikogu within the deadline. No proposals were made by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The decisions were as follows: send a draft 130 to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading on Wednesday 15 February, i.e. today it was by consensus, suggesting that the plenary session should finish the second reading (Commission member Igor Gräzin did not take part in this vote), put it to the final vote and, as a decision to adopt it, decided by six votes in favour, and again Igor Gräzin, Member of the Commission, did not take part in the vote. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U111	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to bill 130 have been received. The position of the lead committee is also to hold a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I beg you to be quiet! We will begin the vote on Bill 130. May I have your silence? Thank you. I will put to the final vote a draft of 130. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 7 abstentions. Draft 130 of the Riigikogu decision "Reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates" submitted by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a decision. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U112	We go to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the Law on the organisation of research and development initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on study grants and student loans and the draft Act amending the Law on the University Act 162. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U113	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! The Government has proposed a law amending the R &amp; D Organisation Act, Study Grants and Student Loan Act and the University Act, which, in the context of the appointment of the Junior Research Fellow to PhD students, already adopted in the R &amp; D Organisation Act, lays down regulations to ensure that the contract of employment relationship as a junior researcher and study as a doctoral student are combined in such a way as to ensure that the career as a junior researcher is remunerated in connection with targeted studies at university level. Estonia was 2011/12. 3051 PhD students in the academic year. During this academic year, 250 completed their studies successfully, but 273 discontinued. In previous years, doctoral studies have been even less effective. One problem in increasing the effectiveness of doctoral studies has been the social status of doctoral students. Doctoral grant is available, but the social guarantees associated with it have been modest. Adults, mostly family doctoral students, have been inadequate and it was therefore considered appropriate in Estonia to allow doctoral students to work as a junior researcher during doctoral studies, in line with the example of many other countries. This would guarantee parental benefits in the same way as other employees, as well as pension and unemployment insurance, which so far have been guaranteed to doctoral students only on the same basis as students. The conclusion of a contract of employment with a doctoral student is mainly based on the Employment Contracts Act, but in order to better support the achievement of the doctoral degree, some differences have been made in the draft compared to the normal employment relationship. Firstly, the draft provides for a contract of employment for full-time work as a rule. If the contract of employment is concluded with the doctoral thesis in the same field, the time worked as a junior researcher is taken into account as the time of completion of the doctoral curriculum. As a basis for the termination of a contract of employment, the draft refers, in addition to the provisions laid down in the Employment Contracts Act, to failure to pass an accreditation, to fall into part-time and to ex-matriculation. According to the draft, the minimum remuneration of the doctoral student is set by the state budget each year. It is also stipulated that no study leave can be taken while a junior researcher is in employment and that the probationary period does not apply in this employment relationship in order to complete his/her doctoral programme. According to the draft, doctoral grant and junior researcher's remuneration are not paid for the same activities at the same time and the university must ensure the environment, tutoring and other conditions for all doctoral students to complete doctoral studies, not just those working under contract of employment. The proposed doctoral student has a net salary of EUR 422, which is 10% higher than the doctoral student allowance. The national budget shall provide for a minimum guaranteed wage rate. For example, if a doctoral student participates in a research project, the university may pay him or her a salary higher than the minimum rate and part of the doctoral student's income is expected to be higher than the national guaranteed rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U114	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I now ask for a presentation of Riigikogu speech chair member Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft at its meeting on 6 February and decided by consensus to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session and to propose that the first reading be closed and that ten working days be fixed for the amendments. The Commission had a lively debate on this draft. All the members of the Commission were very unanimous in their belief that social security is essential for doctoral candidates. The question was whether they were needed in the form of a compulsory form of such an employment contract or whether there were other options. Issues were also raised in the case of a doctoral student's contract of employment: parental leave, nursing of a sick child, the relationship between temporary incapacity of a doctoral student, academic leave and nominal time calculation, the principle of freedom of contract, as well as the relationship between doctoral student support and employment contract. In addition, a lack of involvement also raised concerns among the members of the Commission. The Commission decided that, in accordance with good practice of inclusion, the Council of Rectors, the Association of Estonian Student Unions and the Estonian Young Scientists Academy will also be asked to take forward the draft. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu raised a number of questions, which on 25 January presented its opinion No 19, which referred to the following problems. The draft does not take into account the report 'Developing a set of measures to strengthen doctoral studies in Estonia' prepared in the framework of the Phare project in 2004. Although the explanatory memorandum refers to the Swedish model of doctoral student employment contracts, there are still no known countries in the world where employment contracts are used in the way that the draft provides for. The Swedish Higher Education Act provides that the university has the possibility, not the obligation to conclude a contract of employment with the doctoral student. And when a contract of employment is concluded, it is a sector-specific contract of employment that is taken into account. Another university may also enter into a contract of employment with a doctoral student. In Sweden, however, the social guarantees have been resolved by supplementing the doctoral student allowance with social tax. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has also asked questions about how issues arising from the Copyright Act are resolved and what happens to the doctoral student when the university offers him a contract of employment in another field of science, not in relation to his doctoral programme. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U116	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U117	Good manager! Good waitress! The question arises as to why the doctoral student allowance should not simply be accompanied by a social tax component and leave universities the right to enter into employment contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U118	Thank you for that question. The Commission agreed on the need to move forward with this draft and to improve it if necessary. This could be one way of solving the problem without violating the principle of freedom of contract while guaranteeing social guarantees for doctoral students.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-15_U119	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 162 amendments on 1 March 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed. Good fellows, thank you. There are no other items on today's agenda. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 2.39 p.m.
