ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am discussing an inquiry into the fulfilment of health protection requirements in pre-school childcare facilities. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. We are concerned that some kindergartens will only be in place in 2030 for those built before 2010 and for which training permits have been granted before 2010. A little bit about the content of the inquiry. The kindergartens built in the 1980s have mostly playrooms and dorms, and the latter can also be used as playrooms. However, there are older kindergartens that have been adapted to kindergartens or have been built in such a way that all day activity takes place there in a single group room. These groups have an average surface area of 60 m2, for one child on the list of approximately 2.5 m2.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U3	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Ladies and gentlemen, there's too much noise in the hall. Please keep it down! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U4	Each child has a free playground about a square meter, because there are furniture in the room. The teacher must constantly resolve the conflicts between the children à la he pushed me or he stepped on my hand. At the same time, the new national curriculum also provides for spatial design requirements. Children must have playgrounds and the possibility of separation, but there is no room for this. If this is a composite group, then it is the case that when bigger children are busy with activities that do not have to be smaller, there is nowhere else to be sent to play separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U5	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. The request for information is referred to as "suspects of corruption with regard to buildings without a building permit'. Those who were in this Chamber on Monday will surely remember that asking for more or less the same text was already under discussion. The Minister of Justice replied. When you sum up his answers, you might say that the answer was that he didn't care about corruption and he didn't have to deal with it. Then let us try to discuss this with the Minister of the Interior, perhaps the Ministry of the Interior is confronted with the suspicions of corruption in some way. Yesterday I had a happy opportunity to be a witness in court for the first time in my life. I am still in shock at the way the prosecutor behaved and the questions he asked. Now it's understandable why the Ministry of Justice doesn't care about corruption. Let's see what the Ministry of the Interior is interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Now we're conducting a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U8	Let's get to today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Civil Servants' Titles and Grades Act 167. Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U9	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. Good chairman of the sitting! Let me first remind you of what this bill is about. The purpose of the draft is to make the time for presenting the report to the Riigikogu by the Chancellor of Justice every year more flexible. The draft also clarifies the activities of the Chancellor of Justice in the judicial work, namely when examining requests for a regulation. The Chancellor of Justice receives a wide range of requests on a wide range of issues. They are of varying degrees of severity and not all can be dealt with very thoroughly either way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U10	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Honourable fellows! I have a wish to listen to the waitress and the contents of this report. I have a problem that I can't hear it. There's too much noise in the hall. Please, let's honor the waitress and those people who want to listen to her!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U11	The Chancellor of Justice must therefore choose from among these appeals, but this choice must be based on something. This is the basis we have tried to put into this bill. In fact, I have already discussed all this at first reading quite thoroughly, and now I have just overdoed it. The first reading ended on 13 March, as we know. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 6 a.m. on 27 March. By then, no amendments were received from colleagues, political groups or the Commission. The Government of the Republic supported the processing of this draft. The Act provides for the obligation of the Riigikogu to seek the opinion of the Government of the Republic on a draft which the Government of the Republic itself has not initiated, and on 23 February the Government of the Republic gave its positive opinion on the draft. The government noted that the draft initiated by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu should be supported, but considered it necessary for the Ministry of Justice to provide some details of its provisions. This was also done by the Ministry of Justice and, on the basis of these invaluable tips, five amendments were drafted by the advisers of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in cooperation with the officials working under the direction of the Chancellor of Justice. They have been achieved by compromise. At its meeting on 3 April, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examined these possible amendments and decided to initiate them. There are five of them, like I said. An official and the Chancellor of Justice of the Ministry of Justice also took part in the meeting. What are these amendments about? First, Amendment 1. Perhaps it is also important that if someone makes an application to the Chancellor of Justice to check whether a legislative act complies with the Constitution or other law, the publisher would also write down in his statement, in which he himself sees a specific act in conflict with the Constitution or with the law. We have also noted that the Chancellor of Justice can also, on his own initiative, start proceedings. True, he can and has now, but to make it quite clear to everyone, we put it in this law. The second amendment concerns a case where the Chancellor of Justice does not initiate proceedings, the application is dismissed. The fact that there is no important public interest for 'proceding' is an additional basis here. We already had this point in the same wording at first reading, but I would like to emphasise today that the definition of this'significant public interest' must take account of the scale of the problem being raised, of the number of people or legal persons concerned and of the fundamental right or the specific rule of the organisation of the State that violates or violates. The third amendment relates to the fact that the application may be dismissed even if the person has had the opportunity to lodge a complaint or to take other remedies, but has missed such an opportunity. The reason is that the Supreme Court has also decided that an individual appeal to the Constitutional Review College may be reviewed only if the complainant has not had any other effective opportunity to seek the protection of the court against violation of fundamental rights. The fourth amendment is to exclude from the draft the grounds for not examining the application in the Ombudsman's proceedings 'the Chancellor of Justice procedure is not appropriate for any other reason'. At first reading, it was still inside. However, we decided, in line with the position of the Ministry of Justice, that it would be right to exclude it from the draft. The Chancellor of Justice's representatives ultimately agreed to this, as such a wording would be too vague and would be very difficult to formulate in legal terms. The fifth amendment is of a somewhat technical nature, linguistic. This specifies who should inform the Chancellor of Justice about the settlement of the application. We made a letter that the supervised authority would inform the Chancellor of Justice about the settlement of the application. Then no one has to wait for who and who this respondent should be exactly. The obligation to notify shall be the authority to which the application sent by the Chancellor of Justice has been forwarded. Ultimately, on this very beautiful date, 3 April, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to send this draft to today's sitting of the Riigikogu for a second reading, which has also been successful, at least it seems to me that way. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading today. No vote was requested by the Members of the Commission; the decisions were taken by consensus. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U12	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U13	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, There is currently a draft law in the process, which basically changes the head of one constitutional institution, let's say, the employment relationship or the intrinsic relationship with the Republic of Estonia. In today's sitting, the President of the sitting had to intervene about three times and ask for peace in the Chamber so that the rapporteur could give his presentation in a polite atmosphere. Strangely enough, the waitress was a highly respected member of the government coalition. This shows that the attitude of the Riigikogu towards such decisions is already about the kind that we have made this decision somewhere in the back room, let it be. We do not even have to listen to what the chairman of the committee has to say before the final decision is taken. In fact, it is quite tragic how we, in the great sense of wanting to save a kopika, behave very badly, on the one hand, with important institutions, and, on the other hand, with people who, at one time or another, hold a position in these institutions in one way or another. The funniest example of recent history is when the same Chancellor of Justice, whose status we are discussing today, was forced to come back to the hall and say that all 101 boys and girls let in a little mistake, perhaps taking away their own status, figuratively speaking. So he came to make amends. This shows that we don't even care much for ourselves anymore. We're gonna take it easy, so why don't we just let them walk us home and do what they want, and we don't need anything. You can't go on living like this! In the same way, we're going to go after the judges one minute, the next step we're going to go after the military and the police. But understand, there are still some positions in the country where we want to get qualified people and those who work with our hearts. We want to get there people who are really independent, who really should not take into account later political persecution, who would know very clearly what their lives look like when they take on a somewhat uncomfortable job for this society. After all, we fight poverty all the time, we always try to take something away from someone so that our thin country at least looks prettier. We are actually thinking insufficient about how to produce added value in our country and how to make the country happy in this respect. I look forward to someone who would come and explain to me why we live badly if we do a little more work than people do in a developed country. Someone tells me about abstract intensity, somebody tells me about efficiency, but somebody tells me nothing at all and shuts up. I don't understand how we're all three times worse than the others out there, many of whom actually work less than we do. In Finland's construction, the construction man can turn a bell in the corner on Thursday, as the Finn will not bring him any more material even after Thursday afternoon. He's getting on the ship, and he's on Friday night off. The Estonian man also works on Saturday, but still does not receive a normal payment. I don't know where the hook is! If anyone knows, tell me. The Centre Party cannot accept the authorisation of the Chancellor of Justice's institution, and we do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-12_U14	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We are now going to examine the 167 amendments to the draft. Five amendments have been received, all tabled by the lead committee. The view is that they must be fully taken into account. Amendment 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and today's only item on the agenda is also closed. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.20 a.m.
