ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! I wish everyone a good year in my name. We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the R &amp; D Organisation Act, Study Grants and Student Loan Act and University Act. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U3	Thank you. Call chair, Jaak Alliku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Group's Social Democratic Party Group, I will report to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, Andrus Ansip, on the resolution of the economic and social problems in Ida-Virumaa. Before Christmas, 22 December in Postimees, a longer story appeared that the government had put the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan under pressure. This was also acknowledged by several members of the coalition Riigikogu, who were quoted in the article. We ask the Prime Minister how it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. The following messages. First of all, Wednesday, s. On 11 January, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Mart Laar and Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Secondly, the Estonian Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group withdrew from the proceedings on 9 January 2011 draft law 136 amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated on 17 November 2011. Thirdly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U6	Let us move to the item on today's agenda. The first reading of § 76 of the Strategic Goods Act initiated by the National Defence Commission and the draft amendment to § 9 of the Surveillance Act begins. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft is to ensure the fulfilment of the tasks assigned to the Commission in the field of strategic goods within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. An up-to-date strategic commodity control system will be established. To this end, the Strategic Goods Act and the Surveillance Act are aligned and terminology harmonised. The amendment to the Surveillance Act is due to the fact that the terminology of the new Strategic Goods Act has been amended and therefore Paragraph 9 (2) (7) of the Surveillance Act must be brought into line with the provisions of the Strategic Goods Act. The new Strategic Goods Act contains provisions that are not included in subsection 9 (2) (2) of the Surveillance Act. An example is the fact that in the Surveillance Act, the strategic goods law does not include certification and end-use documents. There is also no provision for international cooperation in section 9 (7) of the Surveillance Act. It may happen that a Member State of the European Union is asking for assistance in connection with the procedure, as the specific authorisations granted under the European Union regulations are valid throughout the European Union. In addition, other countries, such as those in our partner countries in export control regimes, may request assistance in the framework of international cooperation. Information exchange in this area is ongoing. On the basis of the draft, a strategic control system for goods shall be ensured. Enhanced control is an important means of ensuring Estonia's and international security, contributing more broadly to maintaining global peace and security, preventing terrorism, preventing conflicts, as well as supporting and strengthening human rights and international law. Both Estonia's good reputation and the interests and security of Estonia's and Estonia's allies are also better ensured. The draft is in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 May 2009 and other EU legislation. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 5 January and decided to support it. The National Defence Committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 12 December, initiating a change of law. At its meeting on 15 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda of the first working week of the Riigikogu for the first reading, i.e. today's agenda. The rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, at the meeting on 15 December 2011, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop reading the first draft law and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, to ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments. a 16 January at 10.30 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U8	Thank you. Questions have been asked. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Listening to this relatively literal text written nicely on the paper, I asked the question, rather, would you be so kind as to say a few simple sentences in a simple language that will change exactly when this law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U10	If this law is adopted, the following modest fact will change. When the National Defence Commission had completed its second reading and amendments could no longer be made, the entry into force of certain implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which had been dealt with in the meantime, was delayed until 1 January 2013. As a result, we are now bringing this law into line with the changes brought about by the delay in the entry into force of the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U11	Thank you very much. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U12	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm asking about an amendment to the law on surveillance. Is it obligatory that, in the case of strategic goods, the applicant must consent to the Commission to undertake surveillance activities in relation to him or her, or is that only if the Commission considers it necessary? How is it meant by the text of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U13	The regulations of the Strategic Goods Act sometimes even concern our unsuspecting daily activities. For example, if Väino Linde, a good colleague, decides to bring to Estonia a military truck with automatic dispenser confirmation, it is a strategic commodity. Let's just say that if he hasn't asked for permission from the Strategic Goods Commission, he has broken the law. The Commission has the power to decide what citizens or businesses want to do. Look, it's a matter of cooperation. The Strategic Goods Commission is certainly not a tracking body. It is perfectly normal that it cooperates with importers and exporters. If he wishes to check the system, it is quite reasonable that he informs the person concerned accordingly. If the person concerned, or the person making the action, finds that he has been subjected to excessive repression, then things are already going to the next instance. If there's a fight in the house, other bodies will solve these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-10_U14	No further questions. Thank you, Aivar Riisalu! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 148. I will set the deadline for tabling 148 amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 16 January. First reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a busy day. Closure of the sitting at 10.12.
