ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over inquiries and drafts. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry, signed by 11 members of the Central Party Group, is to the honourable Keit Pentus, the Minister for the Environment. The subject of the inquiry is the lease contracts for hazardous waste collection centres. According to the article "Strange management of state property" published in the newspaper Äripäev on 8 February, the lease contracts of Vaivara and South Estonia's hazardous waste collection centres in the province of the Ministry of the Environment will end in the near future, but no new competition has been announced and the tenants have not been contacted. With regard to the above, we have four questions for the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will address the inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science. The inquiry concerns the Ministry's understanding of teaching children with special educational needs, but more specifically we ask about the Vaeküla school where renovation of the building has started. The renovation stopped in 2010 and still stands. Students learn under very poor conditions. We ask the Minister what the future plan is and we are more interested in how the teaching of children with special educational needs will be seen in Estonia in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns one of the cases closed in January this year. According to Harju County Court's decision, the state undertook to pay back 2.3 million euros, which was misused in 2004 for the improvement of Estonian Railways. In this regard, we ask the Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, that if it was decided to accept this judgment and the decision of the Court of First Instance was not to be appealed against, whether the Ministry would accept this as a mistake. What has the Ministry learned from this experience that if European aid were to be misused, this money would have to be paid back later? We would like answers from the Minister to a total of five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Governing Board, I have received three inquiries. If inquiries comply with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall forward them to the addressees immediately. The following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has postponed the date of the restoration of the mandate of Kaja Kallas member of the Riigikogu. a July 2nd. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 9 February, Estonia's views on the European Parliament and Council decision on the draft European Union Civil Protection Mechanism to the European Union Committee and has appointed the Constitutional Commission and the National Defence Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft Decision. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 February at 3 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 9 February, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's Green Paper on the application of the right to family reunification to third-country nationals residing in the European Union, and has appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the European Commission's Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 February at 3 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the European Commission's Green Paper "The Future of Lighting. Accelerating the introduction of innovative lighting technologies' to the European Union Affairs Commission and has appointed the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the European Commission's Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 February at 3 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the President of Eesti Pank Andres Lipstok. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Let us now go to the adoption of the agenda. Attention, please, there are changes on the agenda. The Government of the Republic has proposed to remove the following items from the agenda on 15 February: the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act to become a Contracting Party to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail (point 8 of the Agenda), the first reading of the draft Act 163 on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) (point 9 of the Agenda) and the first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws 139 (point 10 of the Order). Together with these improvements, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, 4 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U8	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first point is the members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Mart Mere, Karel Rüütli, Sven Mikeri, Heljo Pikhofi, Indrek Saare, Urve Palo, Rannar Vasiliyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Jaak Allik, Eiki Nestor, Kalvi Tõvi and Neeme on 9 January s. a request for information on the sharp increase in the number of violent deaths. Andres Anvelt's speaker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of inquiry, i.e. the sharp increase in the number of violent deaths, must be so ugly that a lot of colleagues left the hall for this. A little background on the question. I want to begin by congratulating the Minister for the Interior, who has come to the head of the Ministry at a time when so many things have been done: the police are being centralised, new rescue agencies are being created, the central criminal police are being reestablished, etc. All of this concerns, however, that the main area of work of the Minister for the Interior, or making our daily lives safer, has suffered a little. That the situation is not the most rosy, the Minister for Justice spoke today in the Committee on Legal Affairs, who will give us an overview of developments in criminal policy tomorrow. I will simply bring a few figures to the attention of those who have not paid attention to this issue so far. The number of violent deaths in Estonia has increased again. The number of road deaths increased to 101 last year. I would remind you that in 2009, it reached less than 100, and in 2010 it was 79. The 27% increase is very serious. An increase of nearly 26% in the number of crimes against individuals also shows the same trend. Murders and murders are a relatively small proportion of these crimes, but this figure shows a clear tendency. This figure has increased from 84 in 2010 to nearly 100, in other words, 17% more people lost their lives at the hands of criminals. If this change had been a few percent, it could be said that it is due to the re-warming of the economy and the greater well-being of the people that maybe more alcohol is being bought and a slightly more amusing lifestyle is being allowed, but such an increase of nearly a quarter cannot lead to the economy's success at that moment. The statistics should, as they say, be viewed without pink glasses. We are now declaring, at executive level, that crime is falling all the time. I was once told by the Minister of the Interior of Belarus when I asked him how their crime would decrease, that they would decrease so quickly that they would not catch up with a police car. Often, we seem to have a similar situation. While the total number of crimes indicates a decline, crime researchers around the world still consider the number of serious crimes against individuals to be the main indicator of crime, as there is nothing to do with statistics compared to crimes against property. It'll make you a little careful. That is why we have five questions for the Minister of the Interior about the death of violence. We want to know what has been done and so on. I ask the Minister, when he reports his answers, to read the question before each answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Please respond to the speaker's speech by the esteemed Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you for your questioning. I will answer five questions as requested by the author of the inquiry. The first question: 'What are the explanations given by the Ministry under your leadership about the situation in all these areas? How do you justify a 20% increase in both road deaths and killings and murders? ' First of all, a little background. In 2011, 101 people died in traffic. My data says that in 2009, the author of the inquiry mentioned, 100 people. In 2010, this figure fell to 79, which is truly extraordinary, even compared to a very, very long time ago. This has been described as the best result of 50 years. Traffic and road safety are mainly dealt with by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications through the Committee on Traffic, which is chaired by the Minister of Economic Affairs. It is a government commission that is very active together and also discusses this issue. Of course, the annual figures are important, but experts generally also look at the three-year average, which gives a real picture of the trend, or trend, of what has been the consistent work done to reduce the number of deaths. Perhaps if we look at the extraordinary year for which 2010 really was, it would certainly be necessary to look at the average number of three years, which is just over a hundred. Compared to the three-year average, the number of deaths was less than 101 in 2011, i.e. we were slightly ahead of the average in 2011. Against this background, Sweden is the world's safest country, where the number of road fatalities increased by 18% in 2011. With regard to traffic as a very complex issue, five components have been identified, the combination of which actually consists of road safety: road user, vehicle and its maintenance, traffic environment, traffic rules and traffic surveillance. In a number of studies, experts have assessed that police supervision has an impact of about 10 to 25%, or most of what happens in traffic is caused by the interaction of other components. This means that if there is a concession for one or the other component, the result will be road accidents and a reduction in road safety. It is therefore extremely important that all of these five components are so-called filled, i.e. work on all five components in parallel. This also means, of course, a responsible road user, better traffic awareness, a caring attitude to other road users and vehicle maintenance. It is also important to contribute to the traffic environment. I will give a significant example of the traffic environment. Experts have argued that the risk of accidents may increase by 15 to 25% if street lighting is saved, without taking into account the fact that street lighting is intended to reduce the number of accidents or other public policy infringements in the dark. When it comes to traffic, street lighting helps to reduce the number of accidents, making it easier to see the road, other road users and the immediate surroundings. The largest local government in Estonia decided a few years ago to "partly glare the streets" and this has certainly had an impact on traffic. As regards the three-year average, the three-year average is currently due to the number of deaths recorded in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Last year, this average was due to the number of road fatalities in 2008, 2009 and 2010 and was above 100. Of course, the statistics mentioned above and all the previous ones are far from justifying any life lost in traffic, but this gives some insight into the trend. The trend in the Republic of Estonia has been very clearly downward, i.e. in a positive direction, which means that all traffic statistics, and for the last five years or even longer, have brought us considerably closer to the developed European countries. In addition, I will bring here a background information detail on the likelihood of accidents. The frequency of traffic should also be taken into account. Studies suggest that, for example, in a situation where other components remain unchanged, the number of injuries resulting from a 1% increase in traffic frequency could increase by almost 1%. For 2011, it has to be pointed out that the traffic rate on the main roads increased, allegedly reaching the 2009 level. For example, the share of heavy goods vehicles in traffic increased by 18% in 2011 compared to the previous year. But in 2011 pedestrian safety became one of the main problems facing Estonian traffic. Ensuring that pedestrians can travel safer has been the case in the past, and in previous years, the main concern has been that pedestrians who move on roads without a reflector. While the number of accidents involving pedestrians in rural areas in the dark has not increased much as a result of continuous information and traffic surveillance, the increase in pedestrian accidents in towns and cities continued. In the end of the year more pedestrians died in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, Narva and Kohtla-Järve than in the rest of the country. It is interesting to note that in 16 cases there were 19 fatal pedestrian traffic accidents in the second half of 2011, this pedestrian did not wear a retro-reflector, which means that the problem of retro-reflector and visibility is very significant. It can be said that the number of road deaths increased in the second half of 2011, i.e. at the very end of the year, with weather as a factor. It is therefore important to stress the important role of local authorities in reducing pedestrian road deaths. From 2008 onwards, a national road traffic surveillance annual plan will be drawn up to allow for harmonisation of road traffic surveillance activities. In addition to police supervision, this plan, of course, includes road safety campaigns organised by both the Road Administration and the third sector. As of 1 January 2012, the police are composed of a traffic office consisting of a traffic monitoring service and a traffic processing service. However, it is quite clear that we need to improve analysis-based traffic surveillance. The second direction is prevention of offences, which is an important course of action for 2012. The aim is precisely to reduce the number of road accidents with severe consequences. The focus should be on the choice of the target group, and more information must also be given, in particular to a specific target group identified on an analytical basis. So much traffic. When it comes to killings and murders, and when you look, as was the question, apart from killings and murders, the number of killings has increased, the number of murders has decreased, being the smallest in recent years. Let's look at the 2007-2011 period. Compared to 2010, the number of killings was higher in 2011 at 2008 and 2009. Most of the 91 cases registered in 2011 were so-called domestic killings, which represented 85% or 77 cases. They often take place as part of a common time, where people who are familiar with each other are likely to also drink alcohol. In general, a correlation can be found between alcohol consumption and crimes against individuals, including serious crimes against individuals. This means that alcohol consumption also has a bearing on the number of crimes against individuals. There are concerns about the fact that 44% of cases have had multiple challenges over time from one address. This means that, of course, the police have a duty to identify more root causes. This means the need for a more individual attitude and attitude resulting from a community-centred approach to prevent killings. In 20% of cases, or 18 cases, the victim was a member of the same family. It's the subject of close-relationship violence. In 64% of cases, they were familiar, not family members, and death came during a domestic dispute. Another motive for killings and murders was self-interest. But there hasn't really been a change here. In 2011, there were eight cases of self-motivation; in 2010 there were nine such cases. It can also be pointed out as a motive for killings and murders, which were mentioned as a cause four times in 2011, compared to 10 times in 2010 and two times in 2009. Despite many Hollywood movies, which seem to justify such an act, there is, fortunately, a clear positive relapse here, which means that revenge has been much less motivated in such tragic cases. It has to be admitted that in 2011 jealousy also appeared as an incentive on two occasions. According to the place where the work was committed, the number of cases has increased mainly in densely populated areas: in Tallinn and Harju County, by six cases, in Ida-Virumaa by eight, in Pärnu County by four. In other counties, the number has decreased or remained substantially the same as in previous years. The second question: 'Is the death of violence... ' Is there any time available?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U12	There's no more time. Everything!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U13	'Is the constant increase in violent deaths not due to the fact that the establishment of the Common Authority was carried out in haste? ' I definitely shouldn't have caused that. I do not think that the reorganisation of the structural units can be attributed to the increase in violent deaths. Rather, we have reduced the resources for support services and increased resources for the core activities. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U14	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's start by answering questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U15	Thank you. Good Minister of the Interior! I didn't really hear what the Ministry has done and what your role in this statistics is. But okay, maybe you couldn't tell it because of a lack of time. I have a specific question. When your predecessor, Jüri Pihl, came to work in your office, the media quite widely enlightened his programme on how to reduce road deaths and road accidents in general. I remember that after a few months of work, road accidents started to decrease significantly. The statistics were quite positive and good. Has his so-called legacy been forgotten in your house?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U16	Thank you, Mr. Lenk. I expect you to be a rather informed Member. As I mentioned in my reply, the statistics show quite unambiguously that, over the last five years and even longer, road deaths have decreased significantly, for example, the number of victims of drunk drivers, as well as the number of road accidents and accidents. Take, for example, the number of people killed in traffic, which was 132 in 2008. It has now fallen to 100 as an average for three years. Traffic accidents accounted for around 2400 accidents in 2008 and 1890 accidents in 2011. So once again, this number has gradually decreased over the years. The number of road accidents with human suffering has also decreased compared to 2008, for example. All activities aimed at reducing the number of road accidents and, of course, the number of victims can be organised in cooperation between different authorities. I mentioned in my introduction that unfortunately or luckily, only a small part of what happens in traffic is dependent on traffic. Road safety plays a significant role in the environment, in infrastructure, in the condition of vehicles and in the awareness of people, i.e. road users. What about road users' awareness? For example, the use of security equipment has improved considerably in recent years. I think there is, on the one hand, a combination of the various components. Yes, traffic surveillance also started to take a much tighter approach to non-use of security equipment three or four years ago. At the same time, a number of campaigns have been carried out to improve awareness, organised by the Public Road Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, responsible for prevention. These campaigns have been wide-ranging every year, but they are also targeted at more specific target groups. The result, according to studies, is that people have started to use considerably more security equipment. This has been one of the reasons why fewer human sufferers and death victims are in traffic. The problem last year, as I said in my reply, was pedestrians. The use of a retro-reflector is eloquent. As you can see, there is also a major campaign going on today to use a reflector, which is very helpful in the dark. Of the 19 pedestrians killed in traffic in the second half of 2011, 16 did not use a retro-reflector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U17	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U18	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm going to build my question on a little confrontation with your opinion. When we look at the website of the Road Administration, we see that the number of road fatalities in one month and 12 days of this year is considerably higher than last year's 13th anniversary. For the last two years, this figure has increased. It can't be said exactly that some murders are better than other killings, and that's an excuse. I have a very specific question. Are you suggesting or denying that the current distribution of resources at the Federal Office, the Police and Border Guard Board, is going to take place recklessly and that this system needs to be repaired quickly again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U19	Thank you for a good question. I assure you that internal security and certainly the Police and Border Guard Board are far from ready. It still needs to be built and polished. At the beginning of 2010, different organisational cultures were merged into the joint office. When we discussed this in Parliament with a very large consensus, I think, but also with a lot of debate, we knew that there was still a lot of work to be done with this compound agency. When it comes to resources and, first of all, specifically traffic surveillance, it must be said that in 2012, the volume of traffic surveillance will certainly not be reduced, but our aim is to increase it. For example, we will try to think more about the opportunities of the e-police, reduce red tape, reduce the use of 'less innovative tools' and send more traffic patrols to the risk points we identify on the basis of analysis. I am convinced that the creation of the Joint Authority led to the savings of a significant part of the resources that could be devoted to the core activities from the support structures of the three agencies. You also asked about Ernst & Young's analysis, which I launched at the end of summer 2011 and which was completed at the beginning of the year. The Committee on Legal Affairs has examined this and it is accessible to everyone. Most of the amendments tabled will be implemented. It also highlights the need to reduce duplication within the UI, to take away resources from the so-called office, to shift them to the main activity, and to raise the level of strategic management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which this consulting firm considers to be currently very low. The Ministry of the Interior has for some time not had sufficient resources to manage a large team of nearly 10,000 people, specialists and experts, which is part of the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. I intend to do everything I can to channel resources into the core business, even in these difficult times, perhaps after the economic crisis or perhaps even at a time of crisis. My assurance to you is clear: everything can be done to find as much resources as possible in the core business, and, of course, it will be done not without a system, but with thought, based on analysis. We talk a lot, and I myself have talked a lot about the analyses that took place in the second half of last year. Based on these, we can also take decisions during this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U20	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I will come to your aid and give you the opportunity to answer one question you missed. What measures is the Ministry of the Interior planning to take to halt the increase in the number of violent deaths and make it fall again? We are asking for a concrete action plan, both in the short term and in the longer term.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U22	Thank you very much. With regard to the deaths of violence, it should be noted once again that the majority of these killings, as I mentioned, are domestic killings. They are often committed in living quarters, in a significant number of cases also intoxicated state. As I said, the analysis shows that in almost half of the cases police have been called to the same address in the past. These challenges have been related to disturbance of peace, drunken individuals, physical abuse. So, in the case of a significant number of killings, and also in the case of the increase in the number you talked about in your questioning, this is a social, personal problem. The position here is very clear: the police must increasingly focus on violations of public order in housing, as well as violence between family members, neighbours, friends. This, of course, is not easy. This has been dealt with by analysts and experts at higher and lower levels not only in Estonia, but in many parts of the world and metropolitan areas. This is actually about this 'community-centred police work' and also about the possible individual approach to problem families, to which the police are repeatedly called, and not just about families, because in fact, where the police are repeatedly called, households may not live at all. This is not a police issue alone, but it certainly concerns municipalities and social workers, with whom the law enforcement authorities can actually avoid, if possible, the most tragic consequence of such domestic disputes, which is the death of a person. But the statistics really show that 85% of the 91 cases last year were a domestic dispute. A study by the Ministry of Justice also shows a clear link between, for example, alcohol consumption and acts of violence, which shows that it is important to reduce alcohol consumption. As a whole, this very complex and complex issue, which concerns the private sphere of people, i.e. domestic disputes within the family, between acquaintances, requires cooperation between different institutions and very much preventive action. Preventive action means that there is an individual approach to families, where it can be expected that this will not end with a one-off challenge, but that there will be a number of challenges. Advisors, social workers and, of course, the police should still be involved to bring out problems, speak up more and, in fact, try to prevent a possible violent crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U23	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U24	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In order not to waste much of your homework, I will also ask the last question of our inquiry, since you have already mentioned the role of the ministry here. Should and who should take responsibility for such a serious increase in the number of violent deaths?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U25	Thank you for your question. I've already given a thorough overview of the statistics here. I will also try to point out that when we talk about domestic disputes, it concerns a wide range of authorities and a wide range of specialists and experts who should seek a solution to this problem. Certainly the Ministry of the Interior has a significant role to play here as strategic head of internal security. However, when we are talking about a specific issue, about an increase in the number of killings, we can also mention other authorities that are certainly affected by this issue. The administration of the Ministry of Home Affairs includes important prevention, investigation of crimes, and also an operational response. The role of the Ministry of Justice has been defined as the management of criminal proceedings, as well as the effectiveness of this procedure and the implementation of criminal policy, prevention and coordination of criminal offences. The Ministry of Social Affairs is also involved, as it is often a matter of ensuring the social security of people, which we cannot underestimate in the case of this kind of crime, such domestic disputes, in the case of close relationship violence. Social insecurity can in many cases be an incentive for a violent crime. The Ministry of Education is involved in shaping and anchoring the values of young people through education. It's kind of a broader crime prevention issue. But I specifically mentioned three parties: social workers, municipalities and certainly the police. The police need to approach families and households, which have been the subject of repeated attention and challenges, more carefully than has been the case so far. I think there's definitely room for improvement here. As far as I know, there is also an analysis of how to think through even in larger settlements, such as Tallinn, where a significant proportion of these killings have taken place, the involvement of the local government level in very close cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U26	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's good to hear you say everything gets better. But over the last few years, the legislative initiative has been largely aimed at allowing as many volunteers as possible to participate in law enforcement. If we look at the creation of this integrated institution, the aim was to reduce support functions and still focus on the main work. But the numbers show that there's no way we're going to come to a reduction in numbers. The sense of security in society tends to shrink rather than grow. Do you think the problem may be that the law, or assumptions, is being created, but the implementing party, or those who are supposed to implement the law, maybe they don't understand their goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U28	Thank you very much. I think that the problem of implementing the law has been ongoing and very serious. Absolutely, of course! There is a need for public administration, public sector thought-out, arguments for action, as well as efficiency as a whole. There's no question at all. When I was chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs for four years, and long before that, I was convinced that the adoption of the law would not solve the situation. It will be resolved if the law is also implemented. It's perfectly clear. However, I do not share your view that security will be reduced. Statistics don't confirm that. I will, however, bring out the statistics according to which the number of crimes in Estonia is constantly decreasing. Tomorrow we will talk about this with the Minister of Justice and security policy, and we will talk about it on 23 February when I speak before you here. In 2011, 12% fewer crimes were registered than in 2010. This decline is particularly marked in the case of crimes against property. As we were saying, the number of killings has increased, here we are dealing with domestic strife. This issue has not been resolved anywhere in the world in a simple, one-sided and black and white way, because it cannot be done. This is what is happening in the private sphere of people, it is a domestic dispute, which has ended tragically in many cases, and alcohol is also involved. The question is, what is the characteristics of the families in which such events take place? It is also a question of how these people can be positively influenced to avoid going after another person's life, to avoid taking tragic steps that could result in serious injuries, etc. This is a very serious issue, and I think it will not be resolved in a year. But it has to be said that, according to its statistics, the number of killings and murders has decreased much since the previous years. I fully agree with your statement that the implementation of the law is extremely important. It actually means this tactical, operational level. This means how the police responds to one case or another, how much this response is based on arguments and analysis and how much feedback can be obtained. Let me give you an example. If the municipality is informed about one family or another that it is likely to be a troubled family, that there have been many challenges and complaints, what will the municipality do with the family, what is the social worker's response? Is there regular feedback, individual case analysis, etc.? This is definitely a place where much more thought-through is needed. In one of the major cities of the world, New York, community-based police work began in the early 1990s in cooperation between the new police chief William Bratton and the mayor. One of the prerequisites for this was an individual approach to troubled families. But it took years to get results. Certainly also in Estonia, where 77 people are still killed per year during domestic disputes, the systematic and joint work of the various parties is actually the most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U29	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, an audit of the management of the Police and Border Guard Board was to be completed at the end of last year. Would you like to comment on the conclusions reached in this audit? Is there an inefficient governance model?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U31	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of the Interior ordered this side view from an international consultant, who was selected as the best of several bidders. This company was Ernst & Young. An analysis of internal security management was carried out to find ways to organise the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as to improve the division of roles between institutions. You can all read this analysis on our website. The analysis revealed a number of weaknesses which, according to the consultant, could improve the management of internal security. The conclusions mainly refer to a significant lack of resources in the Ministry of the Interior, both in the design of sectoral policies and in the analysis of the impact of sectoral policies. Nor are there specific limits to the so-called strategic or ministry-level and tactical or official decision-making process. The analysis also notes that several functions are duplicated at the Police and Border Guard Board. This means that officials performing the same functions are located in different structural units. It also highlights the dissipation of responsibility, i.e. that managers do not actually have sufficient responsibilities, but are scattered between different entities. The consultant also concluded that a number of changes could be made to the working arrangements of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board, which would make the work of these agencies much more efficient. In his view, it is necessary to clarify the governance structure which would help to save money and to pay more attention and allocate more resources to the police's main work. In this management analysis, one recommendation was made that internal security analysis or development work should be concentrated in the Ministry of the Interior. The analysis showed that there are currently no resources needed to communicate strategically in the ministry and that the capacity of the main departments of the Ministry should be significantly increased. The area of internal security must be analysed as a whole and strategically managed. We have set up a working group to examine Ernst & Young's proposals, which will be ready with their proposals in early spring. This team includes the people of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U32	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U33	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I understand 100% that if the minister comes here, he'll have the material with him insanely, and the focus of the answer may slip a little bit away. I am therefore going to question Mr Rüütel's question to the other side. I listened intently to see if there would be an answer, but I didn't. I'll check it out. Should and who should take responsibility for such a serious increase in the number of violent deaths?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U34	I think that the responsibility for this lies with all the authorities that I have mentioned and who are able to help prevent such cases and who, as I said, should also seek solutions in a much closer cooperation. This solution, i.e. the reduction of the number of killings that we all want, cannot be achieved by one official, nor can one agency take up and reduce the number of killings in Estonia caused by domestic disputes. This is not the way to do it. I tried to explain it well. Both the police and the social services and municipalities have a role to play here. Above all, the aim is to prevent cases that end with tragic consequences. There is no unambiguous answer to the question of how much we can influence people's privacy. There are people who can be understood more quickly, and there are those who do not listen and who regret only when the tragic outcome is at hand, there is no regret before that. There is no regret even when there have been many challenges to one address. It is certainly also important to develop individual skills in the police structure so that police officers can deal with the issue of close relationship violence. This is not only about cases of domestic violence, but also about violence in the relationship more widely. This includes school violence, certainly violence on the job. As far as killings are concerned, of course, there are most cases of domestic violence, but, as I mentioned, such tragic events are happening not only in the family, but also in the course of having fun between acquaintances. So, to put it very simply, I think that the responsibility for this increase is on a number of sides. The police must certainly increase their attention considerably. In particular, statistics must be monitored on the basis of which, when the police are called and informed that a person has suffered serious health damage or has been fatal, in half of the cases it is not the first challenge, but there have been several and several challenges to this same address in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U35	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I wanted to ask you about motivation. Minister of Finance Ligi has stated that before 2016, the public sector should not expect any wage increases, if only at the expense of internal reserves. The same was basically confirmed by you in answering your questions. At the same time, we know that life has become much more expensive, which means that police and rescuers are increasingly feeling that their pay has actually decreased. We also know that the amounts for basic tools such as fuel, which are badly needed in operational work, have not increased, but the prices of these things have increased significantly. You talked very nicely about a community-based approach. But do you also have some kind of motivational study to confirm that the motivation of the same police and rescuers from whom we expect all-embracing commitment has not significantly diminished in recent years, especially in recent months?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U37	Thank you for your motivation. In 2012, ten million euros was added to the specific activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is a significant increase in the budget. This money goes, among other things, to increase the life-saving capacity of the Rescue Board, which is linked to specific hours of work, and the criminal police has a considerable opportunity to motivate employees, particularly in relation to performance pay. This means that the human factor has not been forgotten at all, but, on the contrary, it has also been targeted at significant amounts in 2012, too, in difficult times. I cannot comment on the position of the Minister of Finance, which goes as far away as 2016. But we are, of course, trying, firstly, to illuminate the entire area of government of the Ministry of the Interior, as far as possible, in order to verify whether everything that is being done has been thought out whether it is possible to raise any resources, particularly from the office side, to the side of the main work, whether it is possible to reduce duplication. On the other hand, there is, of course, a need to channel additional resources to places where there is a significant need for them. In my opinion, for example, the fight against disguised serious crime has been poorly funded. We will take a significant step forward here in 2012 to allocate additional technical resources to the fight against crime, as well as to motivate criminal police officers across Estonia. In addition, the Central Criminal Police has been restored, which means the first steps towards the establishment of a Central Crime Income Unit and a Corruption Unit in the Police and Border Guard Board. An analysis of other types of crime is also ongoing. I think that these steps, all of which are designed to ensure that police work is even more meaningful and that duplication is less meaningful, have a positive impact on the motivation of people who work daily in the police, the Rescue Board and other institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U38	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U39	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You have spoken several times today about close-relationship violence, and the statistics also show that this is a serious problem. When experts from the Council of Europe, together with Estonian experts, analysed how we have been able to respond to both legal and concrete steps to combat close relationship violence, they did speak more about violence against women, then Estonia did not stand out as a very progressive country. Our answers through the mouth of Lang, the Minister of Justice at the time, were rather that everything was already great. That is why I have a question. What are the concrete steps you consider right as Minister of the Interior, in addition to the police repeatedly responding to the challenges? What else can we do? Is there a need to strengthen certain convergence languages, or is there a need to take other measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U40	Thank you very much. As far as I know, the Committee on Legal Affairs is also discussing legislative changes on this issue and there is a serious dispute. Yesterday, I read an expert assessment, which said that Parliament wanted to dilute something. I do hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will not dilute, but rather offer a practical amendment to the law, one that will work. The police have carried out an analysis of the violence in the relationship. I have here a description of projects aimed at preventing close relationship violence in 2011, which will go forward this year. There are 13 projects, they are employed in all Estonian prefectures. Various steps have been proposed, such as the harmonisation of criminal proceedings in cases of close relationship violence, i.e. an attempt to start proceedings on a case-by-case basis. Also, the individual approach I spoke about earlier, in the sense that there would be people in the police who could communicate positively with a potential victim of close-relationship violence, who would not frighten him, but who would be able to communicate in such a way that police intervention would actually help, and who would be able to encourage victims to report more of such cases. The need for the allocation of cases of close relationship violence to their criticality has been highlighted. More resources should be spent on more critical cases. Of course, this concerns cooperation with other authorities, other organisations. In the first half of this year, it is necessary to examine the effects and effectiveness of the temporary protection order. As of 1 January 2012, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for example, provide a copy of the protection order to suspects, accused persons and victims and are also sent to the PBGB, came into force. Some changes have been made to the laws to make the protection order increasingly effective. Of course, information is also important. There is never too much information about close-relationship violence; rather, there is always little information about it. A variety of information is important, of course, on the prevention of criminal offences. Here again, police cooperation with local governments is extremely important. Prevention programmes should be continued. This concerns not only violence against women, which you asked about, but a very large number of projects taking place in schools. There is increasing talk of school violence, close-relationship violence in schools. We are pleased at least to see that more and more projects aimed at preventing crime are also coming from the non-profit sector, or third sector or society, as an initiative of the civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U41	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Every time a new minister comes to the Ministry of the Interior, society hears about reforms in the Ministry. My question has to do with this. Mr Minister, what reforms are currently under way in the Ministry and what changes do you think will still need to be made in the near future in order to get the result that you talked about so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U43	Thank you for your question. We do not have the need for continuous reforms, but I believe that it is up to every top public executive to answer the question whether everything that is happening in the area of governance is thought out and whether taxpayers' money is being spent in a targeted, correct and well-founded way. Let's look at the Police and Border Guard Board. This joint office was formed at the beginning of 2010. This is Estonia's biggest occupation. Yeah, from here and there, there are critical notes, different opinions, whether the formation of the Commonwealth was really right, that maybe it shouldn't have been done, maybe something needs to be done differently. I think it was the right move to establish the Commonwealth. I think it could have been done sooner. It is clear that bringing together agencies with different organisational cultures, approaches, governance models and attitudes does not in itself solve issues relating to 'effective management', a well-considered chain of governance, the distribution of responsibilities, etc. I think there are many other areas and places at the Police and Border Guard Board that can be improved. The world is developing, and the information technology tools are also developing very rapidly. It is clear that we have to go along with it. There are e-police options. We have still tried to talk about Estonia as an e-governance. It is quite clear that we must try to introduce these changes and innovative solutions in the police as well. As you have heard, a few weeks ago, the first ten mobile payment terminals were tested to allow persons to pay the fine quickly under the urgency procedure. This will reduce red tape and unjustified procedures. As of today, as far as I know, a considerable number of people have already taken advantage of this opportunity in the course of this project. I must admit, like Ernst & Young, that the Ministry of the Interior has little capacity and resources to manage this largest administrative area in terms of the number of employees. We have, in essence, 28 people on sectoral policies who are involved in strategic management and analysis of sectoral policies in the Ministry of the Interior. This, however, includes 10,000 officials in our area of government. 28 people are clearly few. The consultants have put forward very clear proposals that we are analysing. This certainly concerns what is happening in the field of the Rescue Board. The aim is, however, to make the most of taxpayers' money, on the one hand, and to move forward with time on the other. This is what the other side, or criminal world, will inevitably require of us. For example, crimes taking place in the information technology, or cyber world, have caught up in the damage caused by drug crimes around the world. The state cannot resist this in any other way if it has to constantly adapt its own software, hardware, knowledge and capabilities and keep up to date. This task is very difficult. The area of government of the Ministry of Interior stands out as one of the most sophisticated technical means of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U44	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U45	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The subject of security is close to losing the rescue commandos. I asked a specific question in Question Time last week about the loss of the Palamuse commando. The question was this: why is the loss of the Palamuse command considered to be the reason for a small number of inhabitants, why hasn't the Luua Forestry School students been taken into account in order to get the full population of 5,000 people? Can you give a specific answer to Palamuse right now about why he's going to dismantle the commando?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U46	Madame Tuus-Laul! In my opinion, this question is a completely different issue. I answered you in Question Time for two minutes, as long as it was, and I think the Head of the Riigikogu rang a bell to interrupt my reply. I think you might want to take a look at the stenogram. The Director General of the Rescue Board signed his decision last week. As far as I know, you have also presented me with an inquiry into this matter. So, as far as your question is concerned, we will meet on this subject to discuss the following question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U47	Please stay within the limits of your questioning! Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U48	Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. Good minister! I will remain within the limits of this question in this context, which the Minister on this board emphasised today, that the rescue service's budget for this year has increased by 10%. But I remember a few weeks ago, the Director-General of the Rescue Board said directly that during the recession, the budget fell by 20%, and, as he claimed, he was not allowed to increase, not even restore the situation. I'm gonna give you a good chance to explain how it really is from this remote. Who tells the truth and who doesn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U49	Can you, Jaan, tell me what this question has to do with questioning? You started your question by asking me this question, but I don't see that connection. Well, well, I never have any problem answering, I'd be happy to do that. The Rescue Board's budget has increased by 10% in 2012, i.e. more than EUR 4 million. That's the answer. This is, in my opinion, a significant increase. Most of this helps to ensure life-saving capabilities. The Rescue Board did indeed receive a double cut in previous years. This was linked to a specific decision on the length of the duty shift. At the beginning of 2011, two hours of rest were also counted in the amount of paid on-call time, i.e. 24 hours, which created a significant hole in the Salvation Board's budget, in addition to other cuts that were relatively uniform in the public sector during these difficult times. It has been liquidated in 2012. We have also further strengthened our ability to rescue all over Estonia by reorganizing the rescue commandos of the Rescue Board. Of course, we can dream, and we have to dream about the times we may have come from at some point and where we're going. But we live in real life. Real life tells us for 2012 that the Rescue Board will be able to spend an additional EUR 4 million this year, and this expenditure will definitely go to the right place. But it's never enough. Internal security is one of the areas calling for investment. The Rescue Board has a significant number of technical equipment that needs to be replaced, as well as equipment such as clothing, oxygen masks, etc. It is quite clear that a few years ago, in the face of the economic crisis, we were able to spend more because the revenues were higher. Now we have less revenue, so it is also possible to spend less. But I think that the good news for all the employees of the Rescue Board and for the people of Estonia as a whole is that this year's budget has increased. The budget of the Police and Border Guard Board has also increased. This money is intended for very specific projects that I have already mentioned in the case of the PBA: improving criminal proceedings, various initiatives by the criminal police, fighting serious covert crimes, fighting corruption, hiring experts, hiring new people, replacing technical resources, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U50	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if this is a negotiation at all, but I'll give you a few quick emotions. What did we actually hear? We didn't really hear anything. We have heard some circumstantial reasoning, even to the point that the mayor of Tallinn is responsible again because he has blinded Tallinn, and therefore pedestrians without reflectors have been killed on the roads. We have heard that in the near future, major investments will come into the fight against serious crime and corruption. But unfortunately, the sad figures I've reported here continue to increase. The Minister of the Interior said that we should see what this figure is going to be in three years. But if we look at these same months, January and February, where this number is the largest over the years, I think there are some screws and bolts loose in the system. The high number of violent deaths cannot be justified by the fact that they are domestic crimes and their causes are somewhere deeper, in the social sphere. Yeah, I'm sure there are reasons. But these figures also decreased from year to year earlier, unlike in the last year. This is where the reasons start to come out. The reasons are that these same types of crime and traffic crime are dealt with by this most common police officer, the constable. He's the one who reacts to a domestic dispute, where first they just kick each other's ass, next time they're kicking their asses with a stick, and the last time they're gonna have a knife. His response often depends on how the next time this billing takes place and whether it is happening at all, whether he has taken all legal measures. The second thing: has he ever reacted and gone to the scene? This is what Kalle Laane has said and is asked to be a public relations officer between the police and the citizen. It is also important how often we see traffic police on the street. Or maybe we think we've all replaced them with traffic cameras. Absolutely not. In fact, we did not hear what I and my colleagues, who asked us to discuss today, wanted to hear. We did not hear any specific proposals for the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of the Interior to make this sad number decline again in the near future. We didn't hear any suggestions. There was talk about how the education system should be improved, how the social system should be improved, how the local authority should respond better to all these problems. But these problems did not arise yesterday or the day before yesterday, they have been before our law enforcement structures for a few decades as they are today. I would rather see the internal security of the Ministry of the Interior as one of the biggest problems. This has been happening for the last two years. We have also changed the structure and structure of the Police and Border Guard Board again during its membership. We're always looking for ways to fix the structure of the Agency and the Ministry, but it's not reflected in the police's daily work, which should ultimately be reflected in the safety of all of us. So bold looking in the mirror and saying that, yes, maybe in some area has been rushed, maybe resources have been misallocated, and we should do it, that or that, we didn't hear today. That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U52	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U53	The next question is Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Kalle Laaneti, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luigas, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laasi, Vladimir Velmani, Deniss Borodichi, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Mailis Repsi, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu on 6 February in Musta. a request for information on the sustainability of the Estonian environment. Rainer's about to be on the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U54	Good manager! Dear Mrs. Keit Pentus! I and 13 other members of the Central Party Group are indeed concerned about the sustainability of the Estonian environment and therefore we have also submitted an inquiry. The question is that Estonia has fallen year after year in the environmental performance ranking of world countries. According to the latest study published in Environmental Performance Index, Estonia has been given a 54th place of concern. Our closest neighbours, Finns and Latvians, are well ahead of this table. But even more devastating is the assessment of Estonia's development path, or the performance of environmental activities over the last decade. Estonia is among the latter, perhaps 128th. The study highlights the increase in environmental performance indicators in many countries, but there are also countries whose indicators have deteriorated. One of the fallers, with countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kuwait and Russia, is Estonia. Looking at charts, it can be seen that the viability of the ecosystem has been badly assessed and that an exceptionally low assessment has been made of environmental health in Estonia, which is understood to mean human health depending on the environment and making the environment more favourable to human health. When you look at the Ministry's comments in the press, one of the bearing thoughts and ideas was that the source data were incorrect. To get more precise answers to the five questions we are concerned about, we asked this question. I don't read the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U55	Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment to respond to the speaker's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U56	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you for asking, because there have really been quite a number of questions about this particular study or index and, unfortunately, information noise at first. I am very pleased that you have raised this issue here and that it is possible to discuss this index, but not only the index, but also the subject more broadly. You asked a total of five questions, and they are all linked. I will read the questions, but if you will allow me, for the sake of better monitoring of the subject, I will answer all the questions at once, with special attention to everyone. Then the subject is not so chopped up. The first question: 'What has the Ministry of the Environment failed to do with the poor results of the study? " The second question: " What may be the reason that our immediate neighbors are far ahead of the study? The third question: 'How do you assess the sustainability of Estonia's environment, given that a very poor assessment has been made over the last decade? " Question 4: " What measures is the Ministry of the Environment planning to implement in order to improve the sustainability of the Estonian environment? ' Question 5: 'The Ministry of the Environment and environmental experts have disproved the assessments of scientists through the media, indicating that the study has used outdated and incorrect data. What is the Ministry of the Environment planning to do to prevent similar situations from arising in the future? ' First of all, it was a ranking of two university environmental research institutes or an environmental performance index in which Estonia ranked 54th place among 132 countries. Your first question concerned what the Ministry of the Environment has failed to do, that this is what the results of the study are. As you pointed out in your introductory speech, this study and the index analyse various indicators. If you look at these data, you will see that in the field of nature conservation, specifically biodiversity and the conservation of habitats, Estonia is the first country in the world. So when we talk specifically about the protection of nature, about the fact that Estonia's nature is very rich and that we are able to keep it well and protect it, there is also an exceptionally positive assessment of Estonia in the index. I think we should be proud of that in any case. Of the habitat types listed in the Habitats Directive of the European Union, we have a total of 60 habitat types, 51 species of animals and plants, 136 species of birds listed in the EU Birds Directive, and a large number of natural and bird areas have been created to protect them, which together form the Estonian Natura 2000 network. You are probably aware that nearly 17% of the territory is covered by Natura 2000 sites in Estonia. Looking ahead, it is important to note the clear view that we have taken as one of the clear plans for the coming years not to extend protected areas very extensively, but precisely to organise protection effectively in existing protected areas. Perhaps when something is protected, it must also be well cared for and well protected. If we are really in ranking 1 for the protection of our nature, then why is it that, in the end, we are in the 54th place among 132 countries or, as you ask in your second question, what is the reason why, for example, our closest neighbours are far ahead of Estonia? When all causes are summed up in one word, that one word is, unfortunately, oil shale. Estonia's energy and industrial sector as a whole is not only more polluting than our closest neighbours, but it is also much more polluting than many other countries, it is wasting much more resources and it is more carbon intensive because of our strategic mineral oil shale. For example, more than 80% of all waste generated is currently associated with oil shale in Estonia. Look at the water usage data in this same index. In some people, this has caused a profound amazement because we are relatively economical in nature as humans, we are not wasting water, the water is not running from the tap just like that, but yet our water consumption figures are very poor. What does it come from? This is due to nothing other than the fact that about 80% of all water use in Estonia is related to oil shale, specifically oil shale power plants. Similarly, about 70% of total CO2 emitted into the air is related to oil shale. While we have put a very clear and unambiguous restriction on oil shale mining, up to 20 million tonnes per year are permitted, and no longer, but if we look at environmental status and health indicators, it is important not only to extract oil shale as an activity but also to extract it after it has been extracted from the ground, i.e. how and what we can produce with an ever smaller environmental impact than the extracted stone. So it is precisely the use of oil shale and its related indicators that makes this difference between Estonia and neighbouring countries, to which you refer in your questions. If we compare with Sweden, for example, we emit more than twice as much CO2 per capita from Swedes. While the share of renewable electricity produced in Estonia was around 6% in 2009 and probably reached 14% by 2011 (details are still to be compiled for 2011), for example, the share of renewable electricity produced in Latvia is about 60%. So the truth is, if we still remain very oil shale-electric, our position in these tables cannot rise much. Our priorities in electricity production are crucial for the environment. The more polluting electricity production is, the more burdensome it will be for the environment and the consumer. The Ministry of the Environment has offered the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications full cooperation so that we can have a long-term and concrete plan in this area to reach a situation where we no longer have oil shale by 2050 at the latest. So it is important to diversify the Estonian electricity portfolio and not only to diversify the electricity portfolio, but also to diversify the energy portfolio and switch to a less polluting energy model. This is true in electricity production, but also in energy-intensive areas more generally, whether we are talking about the heating economy or transport. There is also the probability of mortality among children under five years of age as an environmental health indicator with a high proportion, as you also indicated, according to which Estonia will be 60th place on the basis of the 2010 figures. If you have the opportunity to ask the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs for detailed reasons, be sure to take this opportunity. In short, it can be said that in the last decade, the mortality rate of children under the age of five has fallen specifically in Estonia, but the methodology of this study is, unfortunately, such that the decrease in absolute figures is taken into account. You understand that absolute figures cannot be very large in Estonia. This is one factor that has had a very significant impact on this indicator. In summary, this index takes into account the figures for the years 2000-2010. This has not taken into account the very high level of investment made in recent years and also in 2012 for more sustainable use of resources and energy savings. If these figures arrive at one point in the survey, then Estonia's position will certainly be quite different from what it is now. But I will be happy to answer the questions that will be more specific. I see there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U57	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Let's start by answering questions. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you for these answers. I'm going to specify a line that wasn't mentioned, but which was discussed quite a lot a few more years ago, or a little bit more. This is the burden and negative impact of the Soviet army's action on Estonia's environment. Is it known how much this still affects our environment, or has most of these harmful effects been eradicated during these years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U59	Thank you for that question. However, this specific index takes account of the current resource expenditure, not so much of this historical trail. But it certainly cannot yet be said that the Soviet army's footsteps are now done, that we have managed to eliminate all traces of our landscape or that it is okay. I'm sure you can't say that. But yes, a specific index doesn't reflect it, which doesn't mean it doesn't have to be dealt with. The Ministry of the Environment has recently sent a new draft regulation for coordination, the content of which is that a programme will be set up at the Environmental Investment Centre to allow support for the dismantling of former military sites, but also for example decomposing, abandoned industrial buildings. On the one hand, it can be said that it is environmental pollution, meaning landscape pollution. On the other hand, it is objects that, unfortunately, can be dangerous, whether we are talking about groundwater or, in the case of military objects, for example, open shafts. Not only are they dangerous objects for brave tournaments, but they are also dangerous in many other ways. We have a desire to place Estonia under its shoulders so that Estonia's otherwise very beautiful landscape can finally be cleared of these mongrelants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U60	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U61	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I realized that the bird nests were well maintained, but I found it a little unclear whether we got a relatively poor place because of false data or oil shale pollution. Are we deserved to be in this place? At the moment, the public has the impression that the figures are wrong, and the study is completely unsure of how to view it. I understand, however, that oil shale production is out of our hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U62	Thank you. I wouldn't ridicule bird nest protection. I think it is important that Estonia's indicators are very good in terms of the diversity of nature. Indeed, outsiders also appreciate what we have done and are constantly doing to protect nature. As far as data is concerned, for example, in the field of forestry, where our overall position is not much appreciated, it is indeed that the figures for 2008 have been taken into account or, more specifically, the forecast for 2010 made in 2008. With regard to these data, the reality has proved to be somewhat different and therefore it is not correct. Rather, these data are interpretations and forecasts which did not prove true. However, for example, data on water use and CO2 emissions are unfortunately what has caused our position in this index, precisely because of oil shale. Each specific indicator shall be considered separately. There are indicators that are based on data that have not been quite accurate, but there are also indicators that objectively reflect the situation in Estonia. Of course, it is important how we move forward. The Ministry of the Environment is of the clear opinion that when we talk about energy and the electricity economy, the production of electricity that is very burdensome and polluting to the consumer is certainly not promising. In any case, we need to think seriously about how to proceed. As I said earlier, by 2050 at the latest in Estonia, we will reach the point that we no longer have oil shale in the oven, that electricity production will be free of polluting oil shale electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U63	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U64	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have pointed out that the cause of the poor estimate is oil shale. But isn't such a poor assessment playing a role in not doing enough to restore a mixed-spoken natural environment in the extracted areas? Is there a plan to do something about it, and if so, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U65	Thank you. In the case of oil shale, of course, this is primarily underground mining. It cannot be said directly that we have somehow neglected the restoration of former mines or quarry sites. On the contrary, more attention has been paid to this year-on-year. Very specific conditions have also been put forward for miners to take seriously their responsibility after the end of the extraction process, after the mine has been exhausted, to clean up this area. But once again, I stress the proportion of oil shale and the reasons why oil shale affects our environmental condition. I already mentioned them a few times. When we talk about water use, air pollution, but also waste, the majority of resource spending or waste generation in Estonia is related to oil shale. There is no way we can pretend that this is not the case. That is the case, and there is no point in denying it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U66	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U67	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm also asking about oil shale. From an environmental point of view, how polluting is the production of oil shale oil compared to the kilning of oil shale, as you put it? You said that you have offered support to the Minister of Economic Affairs to stop burning oil shale in Estonia and to make Estonian energy more environmentally friendly. Isn't the Minister of the Environment much to be listened to on this subject, given the large investments planned by Eesti Energia in oil shale blocks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U68	Thank you. The first part of the question concerned a comparison, on the basis of which it can be said that the production of oil from oil shale, for example, is less polluting than its ovens. When we talk about the issue of CO2, the oil product produces about 20% less CO2 than oil shale. That's one indicator. The second part of the question concerned investments by Eesti Energia. It is certainly important to create a long view. As far as I am concerned, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has in no way denied or rejected the need for such a long view. On the contrary, it has been dealt with. If I am not mistaken, there was quite recently a debate here in the Riigikogu on what this long view could be. The cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is in any case working. I don't see the concern that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is somehow denying the environmental side. That's not the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U69	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U70	Thank you. Good minister! I still have to come back to the media. When the results of the study became clear, the Ministry of the Environment immediately began to disprove them, claiming that they had used outdated and incorrect data. Today we are talking about the cause of oil shale and the false data were only about forestry. What is the Minister for the Environment planning to do to prevent such situations from arising in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U71	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U72	Thank you. I understood that you asked how it would be possible to ensure that the basic data used for the survey were correct. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to dictate to American universities what data they base on. For our part, we will certainly do everything to ensure that the information disclosed is last-minute data, that it is accessible and accessible to all, but which data will be specifically taken as a basis is the decision of the investigators. For example, satellite images were used for forest data. Experts say that it is quite likely that, as a forest, orchards, for example, were taken into account. This is not only for Estonia, but also for other countries. I think there is scope for clarification in the data underlying such a study. I hope that the researchers themselves will also be interested in really reflecting the state of the last minute and to be as precise as possible. But as far as media coverage or answers to the media are concerned, I am happy to send you all the answers that the Ministry of the Environment has sent to the media. You will then have the opportunity to look from the source, to which we specifically referred, to which data we relied or drew attention. I'll send them to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am interested in border regions with Estonia on one side and Russia on the other. It is understandable that if this work is not done bilaterally, our work will not be enough alone, for example, in the case of Lake Peipsi or the Narva River. How do you assess this in the current situation, and what is the perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U74	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U75	Thank you. It is true, especially when it comes to Peipsi, that Estonia alone cannot accomplish anything. But in the case of Peipsi, cooperation between Estonia and Russia has been rather good. If we are talking, for example, about the quality of Peipsi water or the fisheries situation, it is noted that Russia is equally interested in not having a polluted lake, so that the quality of water is good, and that we can also talk about sustainable development in fisheries, so that we can fish in the same way in 15 to 20 years' time. This is particularly important for the local population. Cooperation in this regard is good. It can't be any other way, because it's an effect on both sides of Peipsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that our low position in the environmental ranking is due to what we do with oil shale, that we pollute the air, the surroundings, the environment. We must make sure that oil shale is used in a rational, sustainable and, at the same time, less polluting way. You also mentioned that Estonia is the first in terms of certain indicators. These areas are nature conservation, biodiversity, etc. You will expect me to come to the creation of Haanja Nature Park and Tallike Target Protection Zone with my question. Should we be quite first in certain positions, or would it be enough to be second, but at the same time we would give people a chance to live in these places? People would be very pleased not to establish a target protection zone but to remain a restricted zone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U77	Thank you. First of all, we do not make such efforts or protect our nature because we are first, second, third, or fifteenth in some rankings. We still do this because our own people can spend time in nature and recharge their batteries, not only in a five-year perspective, but also in a five hundred-year perspective. These are the reasons why we defend what we have in value. I think it's worth protecting. As far as this particular example is concerned, I once again think that this debate is a little wider. Do we want it to be that if there is something of real value, we defend it, or do we want to make exceptions on some basis? If we make an exception on any grounds, what are these bases? How do we proceed in the future? Where do we draw this line? What are the subjective criteria that could be used in such situations? So far, the principle has been that, if it is a great and unique value, if it is such a value that, if it were to be lost, there would simply be nothing to protect in 25, 50 or even 10 years' time, it must be protected regardless of who owns it, whether it is state property or private property. In particular, it is a natural forest. The greatest threat to the natural forest is its destruction. If we allow chopping there, we must accept that after a few years the natural forest will no longer be in this form. This is the point where you draw the line. I stress once again what I said at the beginning that I too am very clear that there is no reason for the massive, extensive expansion of protected areas. We already have quite a large part of Estonia's territory protected. But if it is really of great value, then it cannot be said that since we already have some percentage, we no longer care about these values or extend protected areas. I'm sure you can't approach that clearly. But I think it is reasonable and important that we now focus our attention on the fact that, from every aspect of the protection we have already taken, it is really well ensured that it is not just about keeping and protecting in terms of name.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U78	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U79	Thank you. I don't know if my question concerns the perspective of quite five hundred years, but a little longer than five years. The subject is oil shale pollution. How much has Estonia used in the European Union and Estonia to eliminate oil shale pollution, such as closing old ash mountains, closing semi-coke landfills, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U80	Thank you. These figures are quite large. According to the original forecasts, to make oil shale ash mountains safe, it was precisely in the sense that it was not a pollution of more than a billion kroons that was planned to be contaminated by groundwater. Now we can do it much cheaper, but nevertheless we have spent tens of millions of euros making oil shale ash mountains safe. I don't want to say with decimal precision right now, but it's in tens of millions of euros. Once again, I say it's "public money." In fact, it means spending direct taxpayers' money; it doesn't come out of a tree. So when we often say that oil shale electricity is very cheap, it is often the case that some of the costs that the preferential development of oil shale electricity entails have somehow been quietly placed under the carpet and are trying to pretend that there is no such expenditure. This is a very short-sighted approach. In summary, this still means that this is a way of generating electricity that is extremely burdensome for the electricity consumer. Finally, it is the consumer who will pay for all these effects. There are more examples of how oil shale energy has been supported in one way or another with so-called public money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U81	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Has the Ministry made a plan to contact the American universities who set up these tables to clarify the source data? In summary, this is a bad thing for Estonia, because if an investor looks at which country to invest, he or she may choose Latvia or Finland. I don't think we should look at that. Maybe we could work it out with these universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U83	Thank you. We are planning to carry out a benchmarking exercise for ourselves this year, where we are analysing the so-called composition of all environmental indices, in order to explain exactly where the data will be taken, in which cases we can send such data ourselves or provide cooperation from our side. That's the analysis we're going to do. It will then be possible to think more closely about whether we would already be able to provide these universities with the right and really up-to-date data or exactly what to do in this situation. That's what we're analyzing. It's this year's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U84	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U85	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You also mentioned forestry today. In your opinion, and perhaps in the opinion of experts, does it affect Estonia's position in the Environmental Sustainability Index in the future as well as the fact that we took down our state forest quite strongly during the crisis? How do you assess how much we can restore it in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U86	Thank you. The previous composition of the Riigikogu approved the forestry development plan, where, among other things, it is clearly established that only as much forest can be cut in Estonia as it grows. We cannot and must not cut down more than it grows. It's clearly in place, and there can't be any anomalies here. But if I come up with a specific index, I will explain in a few words the side of forestry. In particular, this study has identified a reduction in the area of forest land by statistical means. In Estonia's context, this is particularly relevant to the end of the afforestation that took place on arable land in the 1990s until 2000. Perhaps the agricultural land that grew up in the forest in 1990 to 2000 was now re-used as a field. As a result, statistics are as if we had had very serious problems with the reduction of forest land. But it was originally farmland, not woodland. So over the last ten years, the share of forest land has indeed decreased, but it is a former cropland. But I stress once again that when we talk about forest management, the Riigikogu has approved the forestry development plan, which clearly states that it is only possible to cut down the forest in Estonia to the extent that it grows to the forest, not more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U87	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for the Environment, for your answers. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U88	Our last question is the inquiry into the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (No 109) submitted by members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heimar Leng, Valdimir Velmani, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigase, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi and Kadri Simson on 8 February this year. I would like to ask my colleague Deniss Borodichi to speak first.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We do indeed have an inquiry to the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement. As we all know, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement is a transnational agreement that defines international standards for the enforcement of intellectual property rights. The Agreement was initialled on 25 November 2010 and is open for signature as from 1 May 2011. On the basis of the memorandum published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 19 January 2012, the competence and responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in matters related to ACTA is confirmed in Estonia. In the view of the parties to the inquiry, this is a very controversial agreement, which should, on the one hand, help prevent copyright infringements, but, on the other hand, it uses surveillance activities which could lead to uncontrolled sharing of personal data. The Treaty therefore places copyrights above the right to privacy and data protection. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agreed to approve the agreement without public discussion is also confusing. In relation to the above, we have five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Borodich. I would now like to ask the President-in-Office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U91	Good afternoon, good members of the Riigikogu! If you will allow me, before I begin to answer the specific questions raised in the inquiry, I will make a little introduction. First of all, it is true that there are all sorts of stories, including fears and concerns, about this draft contract. I very much hope that, in the near future, we will be able to overcome these baseless concerns and fears, so that there is no excessive stress in society on this subject, and to focus on what is in this particular draft contract and what is not really in it. Deniss Borodich was currently reading an introduction to these specific questions and mentioned, among other things, the risk of using surveillance activities that could lead to uncontrolled sharing of personal data. In this way, an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement would place copyrights above the right to privacy and data protection. Before I start talking about anything else, I would like to categorically refute that argument. In particular, if you also dismantle the text of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement project, this text is available on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website with other explanations, you will see two very important things that are black and white in this agreement. Article 4 states that this Agreement does not oblige a Party to disclose information the disclosure of which would be contrary to its legislation, including legislation on the right to privacy or international agreements. Secondly, Article 2 states that each Contracting Party has the right to choose the appropriate method for implementing the Agreement in its legal system and in its legal practice. The introductory part of the agreement repeatedly emphasises the importance of human rights, the importance of all the rights that we have considered to be very important here in Estonia and will continue to hold. Therefore, I do not agree with everything that has just been said here. But I will now come to why this agreement is needed in the first place. I'm trying to answer some of the questions I've been asking lately. First of all, the analysis prepared by the Ministry of Justice says that when Estonia joins the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, there is no new law or law amendment required in Estonia. The current Estonian legal space is in some ways even more concrete and strong than the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement provides for. I will also give you a couple of examples of international agreements to compare. Last week, the former and future prosecutor of the International Criminal Court was in Tallinn. Ten years ago, the International Criminal Court was founded by countries which themselves had no intention of committing genocide or other crimes against humanity. It was countries that were not directly concerned and which had no problems with their legislation. Today, after ten years, 121 countries have joined the International Criminal Court, including those who have had problems in recent history with widespread violations of human rights or even with such genocide. Similarly, a cybercrime convention was launched in the Council of Europe a few years ago, and so did countries that themselves do not have a problem with national guidance in this area. However, it is this group of countries that has been the initiating force for the development of this convention. Here comes a certain parallel to the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. If you look at the list of countries that have now agreed to this project at the level of work, these are European Union countries and countries from outside the European Union, which respect human rights, respect freedom on the Internet and where copyright and also the protection of intellectual property are considered essential. That is why the idea of this agreement follows. And it is that, after a while, there would be as many countries as possible who have joined this agreement and also adopted the principles set out in national legislation in that Treaty, so that intellectual property and copyright would be protected in more and more countries of the world. Today, according to both our analysis in Estonia and the analysis by the European Commission, the regulations on copyright and intellectual property protection in the European Union already correspond to this specific draft contract. The whole agreement is forward-looking, aiming to ensure that the interests of European authors, including Estonian authors, are as well protected as possible in the world. In the case of Estonia, for example, Lotte's film, which has gained international recognition and popularity, is all the more relevant to the problem of large cultural exporters in Europe, France, Spain, Scandinavian countries and many others whose film and music production and other intellectual property are widespread in the world, but also, unfortunately, illegally distributed for commercial purposes. This is the main content and value of ACTA for us. In the future, the creation of Europe, including Estonian authors, should be better protected in other parts of the world than in the past. I would also like to comment on some of the fears, as perhaps some of the provisions of this agreement are too widely interpreted. It has been said in this Chamber and it has also been reported in the news that suddenly some crazy or unstable person will come to power in Estonia and, using this agreement, will turn the screws off and block Internet freedom. In purely theoretical terms, it certainly does not require ACTA. If at some point something goes very wrong with the rule of law in Estonia, then it is absolutely no matter whether or not this agreement exists. Then there's a whole new situation. And when, for example, someone discovers that there is still a need to amend the law or adopt a new law because of this agreement, it is done right here in this Chamber. If someone somewhere imagines that, on the basis of this agreement, it is very easy to change Estonian laws in some direction, then that is not the case. All amendments and new laws will be adopted by this same hall here, this same Riigikogu. And if you look around the world at large, it is unfortunate that in countries where copyright and intellectual property are not respected, freedom on the Internet is not respected. These things go hand in hand, and the 'core' of this Treaty, or states that have developed it and are trying to spread it in the world, are the most free societies in the world. At present, the Danish Presidency of the European Union is directly involved in this agreement so that it can be adopted in the European Union. Remember, a few years ago, Denmark had a very big topic of freedom of expression regarding the cartoon scandal. In the name of freedom of expression, the Danish state did not back down a single step. The Danish embassies were on fire, with demonstrations in several countries, entrepreneurs were suffering losses, all in the name of freedom of expression. Does anyone imagine that the same Danish country, as the Presidency of the European Union, is taking the lead in an initiative aimed at reducing freedom of expression or Internet freedom? It's not like that. We still need to look a little more at the wider picture. Now, however, I would like to go to specific questions and to answer them. The first question is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not involved the public and politicians in the debate on this subject, while it has been said that this has been done at the level of the Council of the European Union for years. There's a two-part answer to that. Firstly, indeed, the text of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement has been public for two years, since April 2010. So anyone who has had a desire to examine this agreement and to take a stand on it has had the opportunity. Now the question is why no state institution in Estonia has started a discussion on this in society. I think the most honest answer is what I have heard from so many officials in the last few days when this topic has become hot here in Estonia. It is that this topic came up so keenly in Estonia, like a bang from a broomstick. So they have confirmed. The reason is indeed that this draft contract has been dealt with since the beginning of 2008. Discussions have also taken place with the involvement of various stakeholders at the European Commission. After all, this is a mixed competence with the Treaty, the competences of part of it are in the hands of the European Union as a whole and some are in the hands of the Member States. And since this Treaty does not change anything in the legal space of Estonia and the European Union currently in force, those people who have dealt with it in concrete terms over the years did not foresee that it could create the huge resonance and the critical avalanche that it has created today. This concerns other countries in the same way. Here, too, is the reason which has also been mentioned here, why was it adopted in the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries? Why don't we open it up a little bit? In general, in the Councils of Ministers of the European Union, for example, in the Council of Foreign Ministers, but in other similar ways, there are other points, in addition to those which are subject to a huge debate, as a result of which decisions are taken. Depending on the meeting, there are 10, 20, perhaps even 30 so-called "A" points, these are points which are not opened for discussion at the ministerial meeting, as they have already been agreed between the permanent representatives in the past, with some 27 countries taking part in the working groups on the subject. These include issues where there are no differences of opinion between countries and/or decisions that do not change anything in the European Union's judicial area. The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement was classified as one of the instruments to be adopted in the European Union, which does not change the legal area of the European Union. And that is why, unfortunately, not so much attention was paid to it that large-scale debates had been launched themselves. At the same time, it is not right to claim that something has been done in secret. Once again, this draft contract itself has been public since spring 2010 for two years. The second question: 'Why is the European Commission under pressure to approve this agreement by the European Parliament? ' I don't know what the questioners mean by pressure. Communication between the European Commission and the European Parliament in the processing of trade agreements - this agreement is a trade agreement - is defined by specific rules, and these rules have also been respected in the negotiations on this agreement between the European Commission and the European Parliament. Neither I nor my colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are aware that the Commission has in any way put pressure on Parliament to approve this agreement. Parliament has been aware, by the way, of the progress of these negotiations over the years. Parliament has even adopted some resolutions on this subject, and in the near future, when the European Commission has signed this agreement, Parliament will process it. Question 3: 'Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out an impact assessment at Estonian level? If so, what are the results, and if not, why has it not been done? ' As far as this particular draft is concerned and its preparation is concerned, we are at this stage that there is an explanatory memorandum to the draft. An analysis of the impact of the agreement on Estonian legislation has, of course, also had to be carried out in order to enable the explanatory statement to be made. This is, I can say, largely done and done not by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but by the Ministry of Justice, whose competence in the Estonian state is in matters of copyright, including the protection of intellectual property. So the short answer is: yes, the impact assessment is largely done at the Ministry of Justice. Some of the more remote aspects they want to clarify, but basically the draft explanatory memorandum is being drafted, with many other ministries and agencies involved in some way in this matter. All of them have also been involved in the preparation of this agreement over the last few years. These are not only the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Patent Office, the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Culture. Next question: 'As the area of common commercial policy falls under the exclusive competence of the European Union, will the ACTA Treaty be discussed in the plenary session of the Riigikogu? ' Our point of view is yes. If we get this far, it would come here for ratification after Estonia has signed the Treaty. This is just as with all external agreements, after they have been signed, they come to Parliament for ratification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U92	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, 15 minutes, and finito! Let's start by answering questions. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, First of all, thank you for not calling us names right now! The question, however, is this: how does the indiscriminate abuse of the members of the government at the hands of both the citizens and the representatives of the various parties contribute to reducing the growing divide in society, rather than having a reasonable discussion? That's what we really want. In what ways does abomination and defamation contribute to the discussion, and will the discussion finally come, or will we still be cursed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U94	I understand it also gives me the opportunity to answer question 5 before I answer Peter Võsa's question. The fifth question of the heirs was what changes this agreement will bring to the people of Estonia. Since this is actually a key issue, I will say that joining this agreement will not bring any changes to people's daily lives compared to today's situation. Whether they use the Internet, they consume goods or services. So once again: there is no need to amend Estonian legislation; the main value of this agreement is that our authors, our intellectual property rights holders, can gain greater confidence in those countries where copyrights are not so well protected today. When it comes to abusive speech, I have never thought that abusive speech is a very constructive element and leads something forward. I very much hope that this anti-counterfeiting trade agreement will also be able to address less emotions here in the near future and talk about its actual content and impact. This week, too, I feel that every day I am bound by the public explanations of this agreement here today, and tomorrow there will be another meeting with the representatives of interest groups. On Wednesday, I am pleased to come to you for an Question Time, tomorrow, as I know, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will discuss this matter, by Friday, the European Union Affairs Committee is planning an extended session. This is actually the discussion. As I said, in parallel, we are preparing an official explanatory statement to bring this issue to the government at some point. But no one's going too fast with this. It has also been said that, if you look at all the countries of the European Union, 22 countries have signed it and Estonia is among the five that have not yet done it. Which means that there certainly hasn't been any particular rush in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U95	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U96	Good minister! I, too, would like to thank you first for a meaningful and interesting answer. But this is how I want to ask. In recent days and weeks, too, a great many people have approached me and the repeated questions they have asked have been whether the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement is going to reduce our freedom of expression, whether it is going to restrict our fundamental rights, whether the courts are now going to put people in prison without a judgment, whether Estonian society is going to be thrown back into the Middle Ages and so on. I have answered all these questions, no, no, no. But then the following question has come: yes, it sounds good, you say that an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement does not do this, does not provide for any of these things, but what do the secret protocols of this anti-counterfeiting trade agreement do? And since I don't know any secret protocols, I thought I'd ask you: are there secret protocols that are going to reduce freedom of expression, limit fundamental rights, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U97	No, there are, of course, no secret protocols in this agreement. I can imagine where these fears have come from, and I might open it. They may have come from two places. First of all, in Estonia, we have a little over-mystification that there are some secret negotiating documents somewhere that are not published. So, what are these things? In fact, in the negotiations on all international agreements, all parties, in this case all countries, have come up with some of their proposals. Some of the proposals have been accepted in common, they are included in the draft contract, some are not. In accordance with good international practice, these negotiating documents are not published in this form, as they contain proposals from countries which were not supported and which, in this case, are not included in the agreement. To put it figuratively: State X has come up with some proposals, some have not received approval, they are not in the contract and it has withdrawn them. It is not a practice for everyone else to talk about what this country has made. They just can't be reflected, were they stupid or smart, they're not so easy to do. But it has nothing to do with the treaty you're seeing. The second thing I have heard about is the committee contained in this agreement. It is as if this Committee is particularly influential and could complement and develop this agreement so that everyone must comply with everything that this Committee can come up with. However, the maximum that this Committee, which includes representatives of all the countries which are parties to the Treaty, can do is that, in time, if they see that there are any concerns with this Treaty, they will make proposals to the States Parties to supplement or otherwise amend the Agreement. The process will be the same as that of amending all international agreements. If ACTA is to be changed in the future, all these same procedures must be carried out: governments, parliamentary ratification, etc. This committee is simply a working body that looks at whether or not the agreement has become operational over time and whether or not something needs to be changed. However, these decisions are made by countries according to their own decision-making procedures. There's one more thing I want to say here, because it might help ease the tension a little bit. It is not unusual that Parliaments, when making ratification decisions on one issue or another, sometimes take the opportunity to make a statement. It's to think about you, too. If by anti-counterfeiting trade agreement we will ever reach the point of ratification in Parliament, then my proposal is to seriously consider the possibility of presenting together with ratification or before Parliament's statement on, for example, the subject of Internet freedom. It once again expresses Estonia's attitudes in the field of Internet freedoms in principle and once again formulate for us what are the limits. Given that the text of the agreement is really not easy to read, it may once again confirm that nothing bad will happen if Estonia joins this agreement, and no one will. Nobody's rights are being harassed, no restrictions on Internet freedom. But yes, that would also be one way to keep communications up inside the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U98	Please, my colleague Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, However, an unambiguous legal framework should be a prerequisite for the agreement. However, judging by what is happening in our society today, this is far from being understood in the same way. You have touched on this subject, but I am going to ask more specifically: what would your response be to the critics who claim that this issue is made even more difficult by the same new international organisation that is being set up, whose objectives and powers are completely vague and unpredictable than the agreement under discussion? Maybe you could calm me down.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U100	On the basis of this agreement, no one is going to set up an organization. We are actually talking about, as is the case with most international agreements, the creation of a committee within the framework of the agreement, whose task is to see that the agreement works and, if there are any shortcomings, to come up with possible proposals to amend the agreement by all parties. Of course, this agreement does not provide for any kind of organization or association with the enormous power to prescribe to the countries of the Contracting Parties what they have to do or not to do. That would also be unthinkable. It is still such a technical unit, whose business it is within a certain time to make an overview and, if necessary, to bring proposals before all States Parties, who will then consider whether there is something decisive or not. And if there is, the same procedure must be followed as for all international agreements in all countries. In Estonia, it goes through government and parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U101	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Suppose Estonia listens to the anti-ACTA position not to sign this agreement. What effect would that have on Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U103	It's hard to predict. We're no one here hiromadi. I guess it's also a little dependent on the future performance of the treaty elsewhere. But we could kind of think hard here and imagine something. If we imagine that the rest of Europe, as well as the other countries that are the initiators of this Treaty, will join the agreement, ratify it, and Estonia will be the only one left out. Of course, it gives rise to question marks in this company and certainly in the wider sense. There will certainly be simplification again, for example, on the question of whether it is not important for Estonia to have international protection of intellectual property rights. Last week, writings appeared in the foreign press, saying that yes, in some Eastern European countries where property could not be respected for a long time, there are now problems with this matter. In some countries, however, there have been headlines on news agencies' messages that there is protest against the protection of copyright in Estonia. Of course, there is a possible other side in all these discussions that either someone wants it or it just turns out like this, but it strengthens the image that Estonia considers nothing like copyright and intellectual property protection. Of course, this image must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U104	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U105	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! First of all, thank you for that human tone! I do not agree with my colleague who spoke earlier, who criticised what happened earlier. But indeed, this human tone of explanation is always more reasonable. The subject is sensitivistic and has caused great excitement in society. Valdo Randpere marked my key question on these secret protocols, and I got a pretty good answer. I'm gonna ask you another angle. We are always talking about an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, but I know that Estonian musicians have quite a problem. The prints of the record sale have fallen over and over again, because someone is hanging your new story online and everyone can download it free of charge. Is ACTA helping creative people with such problems in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U106	Once again, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement does not create any new situation in Estonia. I took out the extra code today, there are all the paragraphs, penalties for the same things ACTA speaks in more general language. But we have one thing in Estonia that is written in the law, including the Penal Code, and another is real life. There's been talk of fear that now it's like nothing can be downloaded at all. However, as far as personal use is concerned, this anti-counterfeiting trade agreement does not change in any way. However, when it comes to illegal conduct for commercial purposes, this agreement condemns this and for that the Estonian Penal Code also provides for specific penalties. It is a matter of nature, yes, how effective our country has so far been in ensuring compliance with the laws in force in Estonia. The anti-counterfeiting trade agreement does not create any new situation in this regard in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U107	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U108	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, I want to thank you for your very quick answer. In my practice, this is the first case when the answer to the question of last week comes in five or four days. But my question also concerns the risk of a change in the law. For example, when we look at Article 27 of this Treaty, it imposes an obligation on countries to prevent the illegal use of distribution tools. You're saying the system is working right now. So how's the containment going now? There is also a danger that it has been said very widely that, in order to prevent this activity, intermediaries will be subject to monitoring and reporting obligations via the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U109	One more general clarification. We have the impression here in Estonia that the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement only talks about what is happening online or in the digital world. In fact, only a smaller part of the contract speaks of it. Most talk about classical piracy and counterfeiting. As far as the section you mentioned is concerned, the Ministry of Justice, who should be the most competent to give an assessment of the laws in force in the country, including the Penal Code, that this topic is reflected to the extent necessary in the Estonian Penal Code and nothing more, there is no need to do anything new. That's the Justice Department's assessment, and I don't know anyone after the courts whose opinions can be more trusted in our legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U110	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Some countries of the European Union, such as old Germany, the new Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, postponed the ratification procedure. How do you judge: why did they do it? Is this a political tactic or influenced by the report made by the Greens in the European Parliament? This analysis raised questions that were difficult to interpret.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U112	I would like to begin by specifying: the countries in the European Union are currently divided into two parts in what they have already done in connection with the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. There are countries whose representative has signed the agreement. These countries have expressed their strong will to accede to this Treaty and have a ratification process ahead of them. These are 22 countries that have signed and now have to ratify. And there are five countries that have not yet signed it. In fact, there were both among the countries you mentioned. So far five countries have not signed up to date; they are not only Estonia but Slovakia, Cyprus, Germany and the Netherlands. They are not talking about postponing ratification, they have not even signed it yet. In addition, there are some countries that have signed, but where there is now a debate, so that perhaps ratification should not be hasty. What are the reasons? I think the cause is perhaps the same as in Estonia. There are some interest groups in society who have voiced protest or misunderstanding. In a normal rule of law, in a democratic society, I think it is important to have a dialogue with these stakeholders. Finally, if final decisions were to be taken, these decisions would be made consciously. Well, at the end of the day, there may still be someone who is opposed, but at least decisions are made in a situation of maximum awareness. Those who decide know exactly what they will decide, and those who have protested against one thing or another, however, have been given maximum information and maximum opportunity to discuss matters. Of course, there is never such a situation that everyone can be reconvinced, but in this case it is a part of a society that is ignorant or does not understand things, still as small as possible. This is probably also the main reason for those countries where either the ratification process or the preparations for signing the agreement have been slowed down.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U113	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U114	Thank you, Minister. I thank you, too! I have always enjoyed your calm mind in explaining complex questions in front of this hall. However, I would like to say that I think it is going to be quite difficult for you to explain these things. When you read the Internet portals and look at the people's minds and the meetings that were on the street, it turns out that people don't trust those words because they have experience. This is an à la slogan 'The euro will not increase prices! '. What has actually happened can be appreciated by anyone. That is why I still want to question, even though it has been asked a hundred times and I am not original: if this agreement in Estonia does not change anything, why is it so important to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U115	First of all, I would like to return to the answer to my previous question. Of course, accession to this Treaty can be opposed and maintained. However, I would very much like those who oppose the Treaty to have shaped their position as adequately as possible, as those who think it is right and could support it. That this opposition is not just a result of emotions and obviously unfounded fears, of things that are not at all involved in this treaty. Comparing whether or not the euro raised prices, I think this is not quite appropriate. I'm sure it's happened that something has been said, but it's gonna be different after. But in general, these are things in which there is little or no chance of intervention. In the case of this agreement, as I have already said, there is no way that such a situation can arise that, if anyone interprets this agreement differently in the future, things will change automatically for Estonia. But even in this case, this is a profound theoretical discussion There is no automation in the sense that somewhere somebody is telling me that I have read this agreement once more and it seems to me that we are still changing something like this in Estonia. Then the ordinary legislative process will begin. Now the question is, why do you need it anyway? The main objective here is to emphasise Europe as a whole, our internal European solidarity, which I consider to be very important, including the protection of Estonian authors and intellectual property rights in those countries where copyright is still limping. The hope is that the Treaty will also be joined by countries where laws need to be amended, where the level of copyright and intellectual property rights is lower than that provided for in the Treaty. They are the countries outside the European Union, on the basis of this agreement, to raise their level to what we already have. And there is also the hope that this positive international pressure will, over time, be accompanied by countries that do not yet have a good level of copyright. They join the treaty and raise their copyright to this level. So the main interest or positive side is that the protection of the rights of both Estonian and European film producers and music authors and other authors in the world will improve. Yes, of course, in the European context, this is particularly important for countries where cultural exports are significant, where there is a large film or music industry. These are, as I mentioned earlier, particularly the French, Spanish and Scandinavian countries. We too, but given that our cultural exports are not very large, the very direct and tangible impact on Estonian authors, the creators of Estonia, is relatively small. Last Thursday, I read from the Estonian Express that our Lotte film producers complained that they were losing huge amounts of money because of piracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U116	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U117	Thank you. Good minister! You talked about the fact that ACTA has been discussed for a long time in different ministries and that the European Parliament has discussed these matters several times and adopted statements. I am asking about the Estonian Parliament. I asked the Prime Minister and didn't get the most adequate answer. Judging by your style, I think I can try again. In particular, § 1521 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures requires the government to submit an EU legislation with significant economic and social impact to the ELAK for a mandate, which has not been done in this case. The Prime Minister said that the agreement has a very important economic impact, even for people with our own copyrights. Then why hasn't this been through ELAK?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U118	In retrospect, of course, all of us will always be relatively easier to be smart than 'rolling'. I have already described the procedure for preparing this agreement in Brussels and the European Union and Estonia. The reason is the same in this sense that the people who dealt with this agreement in a number of ministries and other authorities did not assess it in such a way that it is a draft with a significant social and economic impact. The main reason is that there is no need to change the legal space. That's the same answer I already gave Heimar Leng. Very quick, direct and immediate tangible income in Estonia probably does not bring about this, and so these officials of the various ministries considered that it was not an important draft with social and economic impact. Usually, all drafts which have significant social and economic implications are drafts that do not fall under the so-called "A" items in the Councils of the European Union, which are automatically decided. On these points, however, the debate will be opened and will always go through the ELAK and other committees here. Once again, if you are wise afterwards, you can say that it is not only about Estonia, but probably also about many other European countries, that the error was made in the fact that the entire draft and the possible public attention related to it were not adequately assessed. All the more so now, this issue is under attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U119	Please, colleague Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U120	Thank you. Good waitress! The agreement provides that offences which are punishable by criminal penalties are offences in respect of which a trade mark is forgery or infringement of copyright for commercial purposes. Does this mean that a daily Internet user does not automatically become a criminal under this contract if he downloads a file from the Internet or makes a backup copy of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U121	The short answer is that it doesn't change. This is the same as with many other provisions: see the part of the Estonian Penal Code concerning copyright infringement and piracy. There's nothing else coming from this contract. The hold is the same. To put it simply: it can be downloaded for personal use, it is not punished, but if you do so in order to sell it and earn it illegally, it is punishable. But it is still in Estonian law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U122	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U123	Thank you. Good waitress! Not all countries have joined the International Criminal Court, not even America has. Here's my question. If, for example, the spiteful Czech Republic, Slovakia or Estonia do not join this agreement, what happens to them? And what will happen to this agreement throughout the European Union? So how's he gonna come into effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U124	In this sense, the situation is a little complicated, that it is a'mixed liability agreement': it is part of the competences that are already within the remit of the European Union as a whole. That is why the European Commission was one of the signatories to ACTA, and it is responsible for those parts which have already been given the competence of the European Union as a whole with earlier documents within the European Union. Above all, this concerns the issue of customs borders, etc. There are also issues in this agreement that are within the competence of the countries themselves, particularly criminal law, penal policy, etc. So if we imagine that, in general, everyone will join ACTA and the European Parliament will ratify it, but there are some countries in the European Union that do not join, then this agreement will extend to them in so far as it is a shared competence of the European Union. Areas of national competence do not extend. That is why this is a dual process: for the agreement to enter into force in full with all the countries of the European Union, it must be approved by both the European Commission as a signatory and the European Parliament as a ratificationer and, on the other hand, by all the Member States, because the ACTA is covered, I will say once again, both the competences that are in the common competence of the European Union and those that are internal matters of the countries, as is the same penal policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U125	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! We have been talking here for many days about the negative side of the treaty. But I have this consumer question. In fact, several downloads of files from the legal environment, iTunes partial applications related to film production, for example, have so far been closed to Estonia. Basically, you can't legally download anything. Will joining ACTA also give us any positive results, or will we still remain the 'former Soviet territory' of some of the world's major players?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U127	In making these decisions, besides a rational element, there is probably quite a lot of emotion in the game. In the case of the market economy, it is largely a question of where, figuratively speaking, their shop is trusted to open and where it is not. The enthusiasm to expand to Estonia and open up new opportunities here would be much less likely if Estonia did not join ACTA. Then the same tagging will probably be relatively quick. Whatever we think or don't think here, but tagging in style is that this is a country that doesn't think anything about copyright and intellectual property will happen. It is clear that all those who are not yet on our market will not be in a hurry after such a decision. Another aspect of this is that we actually have pretty good preconditions and opportunities today to take the lead in the development of the digital internal market in the European Union. I mean, we always say we want and we could be in charge there. Then it is clear that this leadership role is certainly not something we can only dream of if Estonia, unlike most European Union countries, should not join ACTA. In some ways, it is a speculative talk, but I myself think that Estonia's accession to the agreement could give a certain emotional boost to the companies mentioned by the person asking for the agreement. Then it is clear that copyright and intellectual property are also considered important in this country in the context of an international agreement. Again, a parallel can be drawn from other areas, such as the same euro issue. We in Estonia knew that the Estonian kroon is firmly linked to the euro and cannot be devalued. But the fact was that in Sweden, right here in our immediate neighbourhood, there were rumors among entrepreneurs during the economic crisis that basically everything in Estonia is like okay and we could invest in it, but they have their own money and you know, maybe they're still devaluation. We'll wait, and then we'll get what we want 20 to 30% cheaper. Now that Estonia is in the euro zone, joining the euro, this kind of speculation is immediately behind the emotional barrier to making investments has been eliminated. This analogue's working now. In a situation where we think we have things in order and the legal space meets the requirements, joining ACTA will also provide a wider international guarantee, a positive image of whatever. This should give the companies concerned greater confidence that Estonia is not a country with post-Soviet thinking. Since our market is not very large, we need to prove it more. Of course, there is hope that this digital internal market could be launched in 2015, and then, in fact, this problem should fall away anyway. However, if ACTA raises major problems in some parts of Europe, then it could certainly also interfere with the emergence of a single digital internal market, which could in turn delay the opening up of legal opportunities for our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U128	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U129	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! If you look back at today's discussion, it was in many respects your view that those who oppose ACTA are largely opposed to it as a result of false information. If they could understand things better, maybe they wouldn't mind. At the same time, you stressed that one of the reasons why we should not be concerned about ACTA is that, according to the Ministry of Justice, we do not need to change laws. Nothing big changes within the country. Suppose the Riigikogu ratifies ACTA based on this knowledge, this committee will give us 15 precepts in a year's time, for example, in terms of monitoring the use of the Internet, which has caused the most discussion in the media. It is clear that we will then have to review this package in the Riigikogu. How do you comment on such fears?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U130	First part of the question. I wouldn't rather argue that people who are very actively opposed have the wrong information. More like some of them just have information than there is no such information here there is a difference. However, that the Committee, which is part of this agreement, like all such agreements, and which is made up of representatives of all the countries that have joined the Treaty, will quickly make some proposals, I do not consider real. That's definitely not gonna happen. To judge by other international agreements that are so extensive that there are many participants, this is at least a matter of ten years. And then the same mechanism will apply: if the Estonian Parliament and the Government think that these are good proposals, they will probably be supported if they think they are not, then they will not be supported. As far as monitoring the use of the Internet is concerned, my mind refuses to believe that those European countries with a longer and deeper experience of a free society than we have here in Estonia would really go along when it comes to harassing people's rights and monitoring the use of the Internet. If we were in another corner of the world where authoritarianism and the rule of law are not in force, there might be cause for concern, but there are all kinds of human rights issues in the European Union, the subject of all kinds of freedoms, including the freedom to use the Internet, so important that no one here can really come up with some sort of Internet-tracking issue. To do so, something must have gone very wrong before in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U131	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I listened to both your long presentation and your answers to the questions, and I must admit that there is nothing new in this information in a good way. All these answers are contained in the material published on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website. All you need to do is open it, in the top right corner, there is a link on which to press all myths to disprove and the content of contracts to come out nicely. But now, going to the question, what do you think it is that scares some people or others? Why is there a danger of going to prison without a trial, about what has already been said here, that there are some secret protocols on the basis of which life begins to walk, that some contract committee is going to change the treaty on its own? Where do you think these myths have come from, and why do they spread?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U133	It's hard for me to say. I think different people have different reasons to be suspicious. There's definitely no common denominator. Perhaps in some people, it is a personal ambition to get attention, but some may want to ring the alarm proactively, just in case, which in itself is positive. People are worried that someone might want to go after their freedoms. One factor is certainly the same as I said before: the people who drew up this agreement did not foresee that this could be a very sensitive issue, and therefore no active information was undertaken. There has only been a "passive' notification of the draft contract has been available online for two years. I think it's definitely had a role to play. If someone at some point discovered that such a thing was happening and had never heard of it before, of course, it may have aroused doubts and doubts as to why it was somehow hidden. But it's never been anyone's plan, it wasn't meant to be. After all, all these things are decided by the governments and parliaments of democratic powers. To imagine that something like this can be done to the end of the secret, is still nonsense. I believe there's a mixture of all these things. If we look forward in time now, I repeat: we must speak, speak and speak again. We have to explain what we're going to do. Finally, once again, perhaps Parliament is thinking that, if a decision to ratify the Treaty is ever reached, perhaps an explanatory statement could also be made on existing fundamental values, Internet freedom, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U134	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U135	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Personally, I think that intellectual property should certainly be more protected and also copyright more guaranteed. At the same time, I think that surfing the Internet should sometimes be more limited, especially in the case of portals where violence and such are involved. All of this, of course, requires more regulation. But everything that has taken place in our society is linked to the lack of information about this whole thing. You have proposed to make a statement on the subject here. There is another possibility: the Riigikogu has the opportunity to initiate a debate on a matter of national importance in this Chamber, where the answer would be not the Prime Minister, but analysts and other specialists. What do you think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U136	This is, after all, Parliament's decision. My proposal is to move forward step by step. After all, our debate today is also public, and all kinds of briefings are open. I believe that on Friday, the European Union Affairs Committee will organise a public hearing, not only politicians or public officials, but also other experts and representatives of interested parties. This must be the basis for whether or not, after hopefully a rational debate, there is still a need to hold a debate on a matter of national importance. I think that's what we have to decide. I believe that the Riigikogu has more important issues to discuss as a matter of national importance. Once again: since joining this agreement does not change anything for the Estonian state, our primary task now is explaining, communication, so that there are no unjustified fears and misconceptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U137	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U138	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The keyword of the question could be 'help for an honest Estonian'. Is there, or is there, a database of intellectual property in the countries acceding to the Treaty, by which it can be verified who owns the property rights, in which countries they are protected, for how long they are valid, etc.? Where would a regular or ordinary resident get information about this if he or she wishes to behave honestly in his or her activities and in his or her will and in obtaining goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U139	The interests of authors are represented in Estonia by the Association of Estonian Authors. I don't know if such a database exists and if so, how freely accessible it is for everyone interested. In Estonia, the Ministry of Justice is involved in this field; in the past, it was the competence of the Ministry of Culture. But as a representative of the so-called third sector, the authors' association must protect the interests of our authors in Estonia. As regards nature in other countries and the protection of the rights of their authors, the practice of obtaining information in different countries is evidently different. But I think it would be fruitful to hear the information of our authors' association, and they certainly have a picture of it. I'm not suggesting I'm a person who can quickly get information about all copyright holders.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U140	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a question for you about what will happen if the European Parliament does not ratify this document. At the European Parliament level, there has also been quite a lot of criticism; ACTA's rapporteur-general has resigned. The ratification of the Treaty by the European Parliament is a matter of question. The second part of this question: when will this agreement come into effect 100%? What date? And how many countries have to sign it? Does the European Union really have to do this or not? The two issues that have been grouped together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U142	If the European Parliament does not have to ratify it, the European Union will not accede to this Treaty. In order for ACTA to enter into force at the end of the agreement, the exact way in which the entry into force will take place will require at least six countries to have completed all procedures and hand over their ratification letters to the Japanese Government, which is by agreement the holder of its instruments of ratification. Then the treaty has entered into force for six countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U143	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Thanks for the answers. You can see that you are deeply convinced that this trade agreement needs to be ratified. In this regard, Minister, I have a question for you. Doesn't politicians have the fear that two or three years will pass and today's answers to our questioning won't come together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U145	I'm telling you now about the situation we're in today. Which one of us knows what the world will be like in two years. And Europe in two years or Estonia in two years. We all hope for the best, of course, but unfortunately it cannot be foreseen. As I said at the beginning, in itself, in order for even some of these possible fears to materialise, this agreement is not necessary. If, for some reason, a government that does not respect the rule of law and human rights should come to power in Estonia on the day x, I think that government does not really care if this agreement is or is not, it will turn the taps off anyway. Once again, when we look around the world, we see that the problems with human rights, including freedom on the Internet, lie in those countries where, among other things, intellectual property and copyright are not respected. I am deeply convinced that in a rule of law like Estonia, these fears can still materialise only if we already have more intrinsic and bigger problems in society. That because of this particular contract, someone's gonna go out of their mind or someone's gonna go crazy and do stupid things, that's not possible. I don't have any special analysis of this argument at hand, I just answered you, I hope, from a common sense point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U146	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U147	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I would also like to start with the preface and general background and general truth. The government and the legislator must base each decision on the following aspects: what is the purpose of the decision, how to achieve the objective, i.e. what measures are to be taken and the impact of the decision. In doing so, it is very important that the objective, the measures to be used for it, as well as the impact and consequences are transparent and clear to the public. After all, the people are the highest authority! However, transparency and clarity will be ensured by a broader dialogue. However, I come back to ACTA, which, as we all see, fuels tension and raises many questions. There have been exceptionally fierce debates in the media and extraordinarily crowded picpets. What does it say? On the one hand, it shows that civil society has developed significantly. The people are much more active than they were five or ten years ago. On the other hand, I want to talk about content. At first glance, the objective of ACTA seems clear. This is to boost and make the fight against counterfeiting more effective. However, the measures involved and their impact on all of us, Internet operators, law enforcement authorities and the state as a whole are not unambiguous in their form and in their proportionality. How is the implementation of the measures balanced with fundamental rights? Is copyright, at the expense of human rights, I mean freedom of expression, privacy, freedom to conduct a business, reasonable and proportionate to the objective pursued? I don't think so. Another widespread question is whether accession to the Treaty will lead to changes in our legislation. As the Minister promises, he won't. I am not so sure about this when I read the Treaty, because very many aspects of it have been left to interpretation. Fears in the public are very topical: whether the internet can be accessed by the operator through monitoring the internet movement, whether there is a risk that cheaper medicines will disappear from pharmacies, etc. These are questions that are now of interest to our people, and they must find objective explanations and answers. But what's going to help? I don't think a smart head of state is rushing. A wise head of state listens and represents his people. If there are questions in the air, the matter must be clarified, the reasons for their decisions must be stated. Therefore, in order to ensure transparency and clarity for the public, the ratification of ACTA to the Riigikogu must really be sent to the Riigikogu and constructive discussion with groups of wider interest guaranteed in disputes. And indeed, in order to dispel risks and prevent threats and fears, the Riigikogu should adopt a statement in which we explain that ACTA does not change laws or restrict the use of the Internet. I think that's what the people are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U148	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Heimar Leng!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U149	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating once again the peaceful and very thorough performance of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It became much clearer and the style in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs appeared in this Chamber differed considerably from that of many other speakers. But even though I believed everything the Foreign Minister told us, I don't think the so-called patsy boys are stupid people. There are very many of them, as we saw at demonstrations in Tartu and Tallinn, and they have their own facts, which are very difficult to disprove. Mr. Secretary of State said that ACTA has been hanging up for two years, everyone could have read it. But there are thousands of international agreements and their projects and laws on the Internet, if there is no information, you don't know what to look for. It took a turn after this issue came to the European Council on Agriculture and Fisheries. Then it came out in public, and we shouldn't condemn people for panic. Although this agreement has long been completed, no one in Estonia has so far spoken about it either in this Chamber or in the media. I do not think that much has been said about this until last December, when the first step was taken in Europe. It's always repeated that people, like, can't understand ACTA. But he can't understand it because he hasn't gotten the information! The Prime Minister mentioned all those who were in the field defending the interests of the people, but it can be assumed that people who doubt ACTA or have not understood it are very much, with the same foolish words that have been repeated here. Of course, there's gonna be a struggle. When we went to the euro, it was also an agreement with Europe. And in this same changeover, very much propaganda was done throughout society, including this remote control. I remember that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, as well as the representatives of the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank, were not tired of repeating that the euro did not increase prices. I am not going to discuss this issue any further, but I think whoever reads these verbatim charts or analyses this discussion in our Chamber will understand how this euro story ended with the promises that have not been fulfilled. And that's why I want to be on the side of the people right now and say that ACTA is creating similar fears. The Employment Contracts Act was passed right here in the Chamber. It was not a European law, it was our own, but no one, even we here, did share what came after the conclusion of this law to the point that, after parental leave, the mother could be dismissed from work if she had come to work the first day after the baby was delivered. I would like to stress with this that we should understand that there is no right to blame those people who came to the streets and are currently opposed to ACTA. Maybe they don't know ACTA. Too many of our people have been deceived by this remote control over Toompea and Stenbock's house. The people have been made very tender. I would like to say one more thing that is very difficult to argue about and on which opponents of ACTA also rely. And I almost agree with them: such freedom of the Internet cannot last long in the world. No matter how the restrictions come to pass. And I agree with Valeri Korb that maybe in two years' time, we'll admit that we didn't see it all coming. We are saying that this does not change anything in Estonia. It doesn't make any sense to anyone else, because if you tell a person we're gonna make you a new law, but it doesn't change anything to you, no one will ever believe those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U150	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U151	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, During the public debate and also in this Chamber, questions have been asked about ACTA, which may not have quite hit the target, sometimes they have not even gone near the target. But in addition to foolish questions, wise and very important questions have been asked. That is why I find it very sad that important questions have often been answered inadequately, or rather undemocraticly, as the Prime Minister did recently. The Social Democrats see two problems with ACTA. First of all, it's substantive. If you look at ACTA's text, it is quite possible, as has been confirmed by the ministries, and as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has confirmed today, that joining ACTA does not require changes in Estonian law. This is because most of ACTA's articles begin with the words 'parties may' and end with the words 'in accordance with the laws of the Member States'. Then, of course, the question arises as to what the idea of this ACTA is. The Prime Minister's argument that this will improve the competitiveness of our companies in other markets where copyrights are not so well protected does not really hold true, because the clauses 'in accordance with the laws of the Member States' also apply to all these other countries. The Minister of Foreign Affairs brought here a parallel with the International Criminal Court. I think it was a very good parallel, but I don't think it's the correct one, because the ICC Statute didn't contain words that 'genocide is prohibited in accordance with national laws' or that 'part of a party may ban genocide'. In addition, you might ask the Foreign Minister whether everything in Morocco and Singapore is in order with respect to human rights and freedom of expression. But that's it. Of course, ACTA's objectives are absolutely right. Copyright must be protected and not stolen. However, millions of people are dealing with online piracy every day, and the more severe punishment of individual people will in no way lead to more effective copyright protection, just as locking up a Megaupload does not mean that it will not have at least five analogues in other countries where it can still be done. Perhaps there is less piracy of this kind for a little while, but it is actually clear that such a sanction has not worked very effectively. On the contrary, we rather know from practice that measures that are proven to be effective are legal but at the same time easy and cheap to buy things. Thus, if the authorship laws were created in a situation where the main medium was a book with a print of 300 pieces, then, of course, penalties had to be put in place to prevent the poor writer from dying of hunger. The situation is now completely different and, together with the emergence of a mass society, copyright protection has quite different dimensions and other challenges. That is why I think that both we and the wider public, including those who are now protesting against ACTA, expect the government to show legislative innovation that will make the laws in this area modern, protecting our creative people and also our innovative businesses. But this, of course, cannot be achieved simply by tightening up the penalties, but it has no effect whatsoever. The second problem, in our opinion, is the procedural aspect of the matter, which I have repeatedly pointed out. ACTA has visited the Riigikogu once in 2008 when ELAK gave the government the mandate to propose to the European Commission to develop an anti-piracy plan. At last, ACTA was born. The Riigikogu has not discussed the matter at European Union level during the ACTA negotiations, nor has it been approved in December, nor has it given the government a mandate. This could, of course, have been expected under the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U152	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U153	Last Wednesday, the Prime Minister answered my question as to why ELAK ACTA had been excluded from the procedure, that the agreement would not entail any changes in our legislation. As I said then, and I have now mentioned to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the second paragraph of § 1521 of that Act states that the approval of ELAK is also necessary in the case of a legal act which has a significant economic or social impact. However, according to the Prime Minister, ACTA has it. Urmas Paet said it couldn't have been predicted that ACTA would have that effect. But in any case, I think that at least the good practice of the Riigikogu has been violated, that most European Union documents, including green books, are going through ELAK, although the latter is not directly required in any way. Of course, such a thing in a parliamentary country is a bit frustrating. The Minister of Foreign Affairs called it ex-post wisdom, but this does not change the fact that Parliament has not really discussed ACTA. The question is often asked: what is the problem? The government is swamped, we bring the Riigikogu to ratification and then discuss all you want. The problem is, of course, that now the Riigikogu can simply say yes or no to the whole package. At the same time, if ELAK had been actively involved with other committees in the ACTA negotiation process, it would have been possible to mark Estonia's views earlier and if there were some points that we do not like, we might have got them out of there or something necessary in there. We can't do that now. However, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for speaking politely and peacefully to the public on behalf of the government. The Social Democrats expect the next step: ACTA will reach the Riigikogu for ratification and the arguments of all parties will be thoroughly discussed, so that Estonia can make a reasonable and balanced decision about ACTA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U154	Thank you. I ask the Olga Stranger of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I would also like to speak on these issues, but perhaps from a different perspective. I was brought here today by the events of the remote control that took place on Saturday in Tallinn and in Tartu, as well as the dozens of ACTA and its ratification letters that have reached the mailboxes of both my colleagues and myself. I would like to sincerely thank all those people who came to Tallinn and Tartu on Saturday despite the ten-degree cold protests against ACTA and who have also spent their time writing letters. All of this shows that, fortunately, the courage of the citizen and the citizens' initiative have not disappeared anywhere, although in the meantime our people seemed to have become very passive and have no position on very many issues. Special thanks, however, to the organisers of these demonstrations from the NGO Estonian Internet Community, who were able to ensure order and a friendly and constructive atmosphere at meetings. These were probably the biggest demonstrations in the period of independence, organised by the citizens themselves, of which, according to various estimates, 2 000 to 3 000 people took part. I don't remember any of the things that would have been reflected so much in social networks, blogs, media and the streets. This shows that the subject is important and needs to be dealt with in the future. Why did all of these people decide to speak on this subject, both in reality and in virtual terms? There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, people are dissatisfied with what the ACTA Treaty entails with its vague definitions and vague consequences for Internet and personal freedom. It is unhappy that the Treaty, which affects all of us directly or indirectly, has been drafted in quite a secret way. The Minister stressed that there was no special secrecy, but that there were generally various stakeholders involved in the preparation of such documents, but this did not happen here. Not satisfied with the way in which this agreement has been dealt with. Until the last moment, it was not clear whether it would be ratified at the level of the Government of the Republic or whether it would still come to the Riigikogu. Luckily today we have confirmation that it will come to this house. But the second reason they came to the streets is certainly that people are not satisfied with the arrogance shown against the people. People wanted to show their distrust and opposition to the government as a whole and also to the Prime Minister, who insulted everyone who did not agree with his opinion. And, to some extent, these demonstrations can also be considered a protest against the opposition, because we did not notice the drafting of this agreement. We could not draw attention to it and we could not chew through it to find out the consequences of the entry into force of ACTA. Fortunately, however, the train has not yet left. We will also be able to hold a proper and constructive debate on ACTA. It will start tomorrow in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and will probably continue in this large hall on Friday. I was glad to hear that a more thorough analysis is still being prepared than the two-page memo the Prime Minister was talking about. I hope that we can all get acquainted with it and become clearer about the impact of ACTA on the people, businesses and laws of Estonia. Of course, it would also be very interesting to find out what the result would be if Estonia did not join the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. That would be a very good addition to the analysis currently being carried out by the Ministry of Justice. I'd like three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U156	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U157	Thank you. I very much hope that the Minister who comes here to present this agreement will not be whacked as the Prime Minister did, but will be as balanced as our waitress today. I hope so. Unfortunately, I must admit myself that, although this debate has not taken place in this Chamber, I have already developed my own opinion on this agreement. I have made my decision based on what I have read and heard. I will probably vote against ACTA, although I do not know what the official position of the Centre Party will be, because we are only discussing this on Wednesday. I hope most people in this hall do the same thing. Finally. What is currently happening around ACTA and all the other demonstrations that have recently taken place in front of this castle, be it teachers, rescuers, students or individual citizens who have protested against the price increase, show that civil society is becoming active. In a sense, it can be said that a time of civil society awakening or a time of resurrection has begun, as someone would like to name it. Some parallel can be drawn with what took place in the late 1980s and early 1990s, when civil society became active and everyone fought for Estonia's freedom. There is also a fight for freedom of the internet. The Internet has become a very important part of our lives, and the border between the real and the virtual world has begun to disappear. I very much hope that this citizens' initiative and the courage of citizens will not fall away, but that we will increasingly hear from our citizens not only about the ACTA Treaty but also about all other issues. And not only on the streets, but also on the Internet through e-mails and through the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U158	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U159	Good fellows! Anyone who wishes to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit! Deniss Borodich, please come to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U160	Good chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! Minister! In recent days, much has been said in Estonia other than ACTA. This stranger's name has become quite familiar and has already brought people to the street. Last Wednesday we heard Prime Minister Andrus Ansip's assessment, and today we heard a significantly more balanced response from Urmas Paet. If the Prime Minister doesn't understand the people who see a ghost in ACTA, I don't understand how the government could have stepped on such a big rake. At the moment, it seems to me that the government is willing to declare copyright and industrial property supreme over all other rights. It should not be forgotten that the main fear of ACTA is the violation of privacy and the restriction of personal freedoms. In my opinion, in the last ten years, the internet has given people the freedom to speak to Australians via a webcam in Estonia, the freedom to fill in a tax return in a few minutes, the freedom to receive extremely rapid information about what is happening around the world. And the freedom to send instant photos to the country's grandmother, yes, even the land's grannies use the Internet! I agree that the author must be rewarded for his work, but I fear that ACTA can cut a sword with two blades. Businesses interested in this agreement see increasing profits and are ready to lobby vigorously for profit in order to achieve their objective. But that is why we need a country and laws that are reasonable and balanced in the interests of businesses and consumers. If we want Estonia to be an e-state, we must not, in our belief in the Prime Minister's statements, confirm ACTA blindly. On the contrary, we must take this agreement under scrutiny, read it, analyze it and argue about it. ACTA must be made clear, and most importantly: the people of Estonia must be clear. In view of recent events in Estonia, the legitimate question arises: who is represented by the current government at all? Teachers came to Toompea to claim a decent salary for the demonstration, just today we were able to read the news that wage negotiations failed and that teachers would strike in March. Consequently, this government does not represent teachers. The Saviors came to Toompea for a demonstration on the issue of retirement age as well as to oppose the closure of their vital commandos. People in many other parts of Estonia are protesting against the closure of rescue troops, but they are still being shut down. Hence, the saviors are not represented by the government. The students came to Toompea to call for a reform of higher education. Their demands were not taken into account, so the students are not represented by the government either. If a member of the Riigikogu asks the Prime Minister whether the ACTA agreement is not too hasty, the Estonian people will know that those who dare to ask are, to put it mildly, stupid. The old folks knew they wouldn't hit the questioner's mouth. With ACTA, things are different: Let the Riigikogu not ask, and let the people not ask! So it seems that the government represents only the European Union and NATO. It is constantly fulfilling these conditions and can be constantly commended from there. This is, of course, great, but the government should still act in such a way that the Estonian people are good. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-13_U161	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the free microphone. Today's trial is over. Thank you, good fellows, and I wish you strength in your work. Closure of the sitting at 6.31 p.m.
