ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 44 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 57. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo, and Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U2	Let's start with the first question. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson! This is about Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U3	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! As a elected representative of Pärnumaa, I often meet local people, including IRL voters. I must admit that the voters of the IRL have been relatively evil lately because you have deceived them and there has been no reduction in home expenses. For example, electricity prices have increased by one fifth in recent years. The news says that the electricity market is opening up and the price is rising. The price of water has also increased very much in many places in Estonia, including Pärnumaa. This is the result of one provision of the Antitrust Act. Do you think this is a reduction in home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U4	Thank you, honourable Member. IRL voters know that the IRL is implementing the policy that it has promised in the elections in the government, and this policy is working effectively. A survey of the household budget of Statistics Estonia shows that household expenditure on housing in 2011 was on average 47 euros per month and accounted for 17% of total expenditure. Compared to 2010, there was a decrease of around 4%. On the subject of home expenses, we have promised specific things: insulation of apartment buildings, the abolition of the tax on homeland across the country, and also the containment of monopolies, which will certainly not lead to price increases, but will block unreasonable price increases, as happened with the increase in the price of Tallinn Water. It is also our view that we must effectively continue the home support programme for families with children. With this programme, over 1,200 families have received support in five years, with an average growth rate of 4.3 children each. I would also like to remind you that the most serious problem in the area of home spending and, without a doubt, the biggest component of home spending is heating. We foresee that the thermal insulation program for apartment buildings must continue to flourish. The insulation programme for apartment buildings has supported approximately 400 apartment buildings, affecting approximately 33000 people who live there, and the average energy savings achieved by reconstruction works are 39%. This is a real policy with real results.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U6	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! I took out your election vows a year ago. Point 2 of these states that you will reduce the heating and water costs of homeowners by up to half with these steps. So you made a promise that wasn't fulfilled. Today, the price of water has risen in many small settlements in Estonia because of the Monopoly Control Act. But as a good student of the Prime Minister and his place-holder, you mentioned Statistics. According to Statistics Estonia, housing expenditure, which accounted for 40% of the total increase, mostly affected the price increase last year. Three quarters of this, in turn, accounted for 17.7% of the increase in heat energy compared to a year ago, 13.7% of the increase in electricity and 11.7% of the increase in gas. On the basis of this information, can you confirm that after renovation, the human utility bill is definitely smaller than before renovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U7	Thank you. I can confirm with absolute certainty that, regrettably, our housing fund is a waste of energy, so it makes sense to invest in energy savings. Unexploited energy is the cheapest energy. It is therefore government policy to continue and expand energy efficiency programmes. We have considered it reasonable to support the programme for the insulation of apartment buildings and it should certainly continue during the next financial perspective of the European Union. It is also important to make district heating networks more energy efficient. I am pleased that around EUR 45 million has gone to local governments through the KIC programmes. It has a real effect. With regard to price increases at input prices, the only answer to this can be effective energy use, which is our political goal. The good questioner also mentioned the price of energy in the previous question. The price of electricity has indeed increased over the years. This price increase has been most affected by renewable energy charges. In view of the opening-up of the market in 2013, both the government and Parliament have a duty to seek reasonable alternatives here. I hope that they will be found and enforced at the level of the law in such a way that renewable energy charges, where there is unreasonable, too high profitability, can be brought to a reasonable level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U9	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! Currently, electricity to domestic consumers is 30% cheaper than electricity in the open market. In an open market, the price of electricity is currently EUR 41,63 per megawatt-hour in the Estonian price area of Nord Pool Spot Power Exchange. This means that if the consumer has to buy electricity on the open market, the price of electricity will inevitably increase for the consumer. KredEx's private house reconstruction and support for renewable energy equipment will continue this year to heat 200 private houses. How should the home costs of private owners who did not receive renovation support from KredEx, i.e. the other private owners, decrease in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U10	I am pleased that the good questioner made a commendable reference to KredEx's private house renovation programme. This program application in my opinion effectively, there was a real interest of private owners. The programme was worth EUR 4 million and so much money was requested. I am sure that effective implementation of the programme will serve as a basis for extending its impact. As far as the opening of the electricity market is concerned, as I said, my understanding is that where the government can shape the price of electricity with its policies, it is certainly the revision of renewable energy charges. Here, the Minister for Economic Affairs has presented his approach. Secondly, I recall that it is right that the price of electricity in an open market is mobile for all consumers, depending on a number of factors, but a new climate package from the European Union will enter into force on 1 January 2013, which will significantly increase the price of electricity produced from fossil fuels. This means that the price of electricity produced from oil shale in Narva Power Plants will increase by a component of CO2 and the consumer would most likely have to pay more on a captive market than on a competitive free market. This is a reality that has also been highlighted by experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U11	We have quite a number of locally registered issues. Today, the number of pre-registered questions is not very high, so I promise to ask three additional questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U12	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Your clear election promise was to lower home expenses by half, just like Kadri Simson said. I remember that when Ken-Mart Vaher was in this room, he said that the Competition Authority would be given full control over the heating and water companies to bring these prices down. We can see that prices have risen since then. Domestic costs account for more than 40% of the overall price increase. Estonia is the first in Europe in terms of price increases, and more than 40% of this is made up of domestic costs. I mean, prices have not fallen, they have risen. I ask you: when will you fulfill your election promise to bring home expenses, including heating and water costs, down to half?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U13	Thank you, Marika! I can confirm with full responsibility in Parliament that the IRL is fulfilling its electoral commitments. These five specific political theories that we presented before the Riigikogu elections will be enforced and will have a real impact on people's home expenses. As far as costs are concerned, I would stress the cost of housing for a household member, I would also repeat what was said to the previous good questioner that according to Statistics Estonia's household budget survey, the household member spent an average of 47 euros per month on housing in 2011, representing 17% of the total costs. Compared to 2010, there had been a fall of 4%. It would be misleading and completely wrong to give messages, as if one Estonian party could control fuel input prices on the world market, which make up a large part of our heating costs. What can we do? We can, as we promised in the elections, increase energy efficiency. The average energy savings are indeed 39%. It's a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U14	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U15	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! My question, too, concerns the charges for renewable energy, which you have already mentioned twice here, in connection with the imminent surge in electricity prices from 1 January when we are going to the free market. As is well known, Democrats have proposed that renewable energy charges be charged not on people, consumers, but on 1 January next year on CO2 charges. Does the IRL support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U16	Thank you. I think that any proposal that offers opportunities to solve this problem must be taken with all seriousness. This, too, is one proposal that I certainly do not intend to treat as if it did not deserve a debate. I hope that the Ministry of Economic Affairs will prepare in-depth analyses of all these proposals, including the idea put forward by the questioner. I think that the starting point is precisely to find a solution to this real problem, to our competitiveness or to the problem that burden consumers, which is legally competent and does not give the wrong signals. Renewable energy is actually important in our energy portfolio and also in terms of energy security. It is certainly not a matter of reducing its proportion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U17	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U18	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You're trying to talk to a soldier's exhilaration and inject optimism into us, but the content of the answers is quite doubtful. That is why I am specifically asking: what year is the IRL going to deliver on the promise that home expenses will go down? I'm asking for it from the perspective of the residents of the apartment buildings. Having been the long-term leader of the cooperative myself, I can say that we have calculated and understood that the renovation programme for large houses means that paying off bank loans over decades, on the contrary, increases the cost of heat for the residents of the house. Heating costs really go down a little bit, but never 30%. That's the absolute bluff you're talking about. The savings will be considerably lower if the media are praised. I now ask: in what year will the residents of the apartment buildings enjoy the promise made by the IRL and the reduction in home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U19	I call upon the good questioner in my housing company to realise the program initiated by IRL and implemented by KredEx. This is a real opportunity for your cooperative to reduce home expenses. Recently, 'Ringview' performed an experiment involving renovated apartment buildings and unrenovated apartment buildings. I remember that on average the difference was double, i.e. the costs were halved, as has been said here. Indeed, the statistical information is as KredEx has provided that the average energy savings achieved by reconstruction works are 39%. This support has been granted to 391 apartment buildings with a total amount of EUR 34,26 million. I think these cooperatives have made a good choice, because the cheapest energy is unspent energy. It is certainly important to continue to provide information and clarification in the interests of all homeowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U20	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U21	The next question is from my colleague, Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U22	Thank you. I would first like to wish you strength in your new position, Minister of Defence. But I will address you today as a member of this office, who will replace the Prime Minister here before us, and I will instead ask you about the area of internal security. In fact, Prime Minister Ansip caused quite a surge in the public space of Estonia the day before yesterday, claiming that the telephone calls of politicians and businessmen are being eavesdropped and suggesting that this eavesdropping is massive and takes place in a way that is not entirely in line with the laws governing this field. If that should be the case, I dare say that this is quite a serious threat to the constitutional order and democratic parliamentary republic, so it is quite a security threat. My question, therefore, is this: has the Prime Minister shared these fears with the cabinet members and do you believe that the Prime Minister's fears are adequate and justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U23	Thank you. First of all, thank the honourable questioner for his good wishes. Secondly, I am not going to give an answer that goes along with this rhetoric, especially the epithets that characterized fears, and the conclusions of these fears. I can say that my clear understanding is that Estonia is the rule of law. As regards all procedural procedures in the interests of justice, I would also remind the good questioner that they take place on the basis of an independent power, a judicial power, or a judicial sanction. Personally, I have no reason to assume that these court authorisations are unlawful or carried out by intentions other than the interests of justice. I also asked the Minister for the Interior what is the volume of these procedural procedures without, of course, going into specific cases. Most of these types of operations are related to drug crime. When we look at criminal proceedings, this type of procedure is actually applied to less than 1% of cases. These are real statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U24	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U25	Thank you. I come back to saying this Prime Minister, and I ask you, however, that your assessment of the Prime Minister's words is that all Estonian politicians and major businessmen are communicating with the phone, assuming they are being eavesdropped. In your opinion, was it a failed joke, a serious concern about the functioning of the Estonian constitutional order, or was it a public relations trick?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U26	Thank you. I think it was the Prime Minister's position. The Prime Minister presented this, certainly on the basis of his best understanding of these problems. Of course, I do not want to go this way to start speculating again on such a serious and sensitive subject on different aspects of this issue. I do not want to narrow down this debate, which could be eavesdropped, on the basis of the procedural procedures carried out by the Estonian law enforcement authorities alone. We know that there is a phenomenon such as signal intelligence, which is carried out by foreign services. In this light, but also in other respects, the information contained in the Police Yearbook is certainly important for the various decision-makers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U27	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U28	Thank you. Good minister! Last but not least, do you consider the Prime Minister to be such a scandalous statement with a clear political motivation, which probably seriously undermines the trust of the Estonian people in both the person of the Prime Minister and, unfortunately, the many internal security authorities that the Prime Minister was concerned with, responsible and statesmanly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U29	Thank you. Again, I would not like to accept this targeted question. However, I can assure you that I have no doubt that Estonia is a functioning rule of law, where different procedures, including surveillance, are also used to find out the truth in criminal proceedings, on the basis of the legal frameworks proposed by the legislator and in proportion to their content. It is undoubtedly important in the rule of law that there is confidence and the presumption that things work legally. Therefore, it is certainly important that no one gives a reason to draw conclusions that could undermine this trust by making their views known.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U30	Now three issues registered locally, as I promised. Starts with my colleague, Andres Anvel.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, my congratulations to you on your hard work! We were talking about surveillance facilities here, but there are also two security institutions in Estonia that have exactly the same working methods, possibilities and techniques as surveillance institutions. The veil of mystery around them often creates such a background that people become afraid of the constant monitoring, persecution, eavesdropping, etc. of a large brother. Here I go with my question directly to your jurisdiction. One of the institutions within your jurisdiction is the Information Board. I have been wondering for years that the website of this institution is a large white page that has been written in black in the 'Authority of Information', and then there is another link to some law. I've been in contact with several security agencies around the world, and all their websites at least pretend to be open to the public. Why can't we do that with the Information Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U32	Thank you. I thank you for your good wishes. I think the practical idea expressed by the good questioner in one of the last "Forum" shows, if I remember correctly, deserves to be considered. I've been in office for two weeks and three days. I have looked at the websites of all the institutions within my jurisdiction and I intend to go to all these institutions. That's the point I'm gonna make, and I'm gonna remember. I think that the constructive debate, which goes beyond the borders of the opposition and coalition, on issues of national security that are outside the political opposition of the party, is absolutely appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U33	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U34	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Today, the Riigikogu is working on a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, where gas sellers and gas pipelines are so-called separated when they enter into force. This, unfortunately, will also result in price increases for consumers. But what is your position as Minister of Defence, whether this is primarily a market-based change or whether this change is more related to national security? Which one has a more important role to play in this, what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U35	Thank you. I am deeply convinced that coping with the Estonian people and their prosperity are undoubtedly also a security issue. However, as far as the Gazprom's influence on the law on the tinting that will come before Parliament is concerned, a number of analyses have been carried out on this matter. Let me remind you that allowing competition, which is actually the strategic objective of this step, will not lead to price increases in the long term, but because there will be real alternatives to supply, there will certainly be pressure on the current monopoly provider to lower prices. This step has two dimensions. One is undoubtedly the security dimension in terms of our energy security. Secondly, it also has an economic policy dimension, which means that the price burden on consumers will decrease in the future due to alternative offers. I would like to remind you that our apartment building fund is a very large part of the district heating network, and that is precisely the case with natural gas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U36	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U37	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! You inherited a ministry with a very painful experience with Herman Simm. They've learned that it's a security risk if no one controls the controller. In recent months, a similar story has happened in the defense police. Their chief specialist, Indrek Mõder, has been quickly convicted, but there's also a question up there that no one is in control of the controller. You and your good colleague Ken-Marti Vaher belong to the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic. Is there a plan for the defense police to learn how to rule out such security risks in such an important structure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U38	Thank you. Here I want to quote the Prime Minister and agree with him a hundred percent: no country is safe from the bastards. Of course, if the people who have been entrusted, who have gained greater trust and who have been given greater powers to defend our constitutional order and the rule of law abuse that trust, this act is particularly disgusting. However, the positive aspect of such matters, and they also occur with very long-term democracy, in countries with very long-term functioning of the legal order, is that these things can be dealt with and these things are being identified. Without doubt, if we objectively assess reality, there is no way to say that our legal order would be more solid if both of these persons had been able to continue their activities. As far as security authorities and their supervision, including parliamentary supervision, are concerned, the Government of the Republic is preparing and debating a draft law on the amendment of the Security Authorities Act. I do not currently have the authority to say the deadline for the government to submit this to Parliament, but this is a matter of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U39	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U40	The next question is from my colleague, Yana Toomi, to Mr Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm asking about the parental pension. This bill is very positive. We also had a heated debate on this subject. Unfortunately, you were not in the Commission when we talked about the exclusion of beneficiaries of national pensions from this fine bill. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the right to a national pension is granted only on the basis of age, while the supplementary contributions to the funded pension are covered by the pension supplement under the State Pension Insurance Act and are paid for those who have contributed specifically, who have pension rights and who have received social security contributions. Although they tried to make it clear to me that it was nice and fair, I still have a small doubt as to why we are punishing the beneficiaries of national pensions in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U42	Thank you for your question. This was certainly explained to you in the Commission, and also to all the other members of the Commission, a little longer. One important principle in creating a parental pension was that we do not change the rules in force or the general principles. In this respect, the relationship between national pension and children has been similar in the current State Pension Insurance Act. According to the information received from the Social Insurance Institution, the general practice is that if one member of the family is entitled to a national pension only, children's rights are usually made out in the name of another member of the family. Once again, we have tried to follow the same logic as the law in force. In the same way, the principle that the share of funded pension children is paid into the second pillar has been taken into account when adapting children's rights to the new principles of funded pension. It makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U43	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U44	Thank you. Mr. Minister! But look, there's a little over 6,000 of these people receiving national pensions. You said that if one parent receives only a national pension, the other parent will receive additional child-related supplements in his or her name. This cannot be considered quite fair, since apparently the parent receiving the national pension is the mother who was a housewife and who actually raised these children. It would not be very burdensome for the state budget. Maybe there's 200-300 people like that. Have these adjustments been made at all, or did you have a basic approach to not even looking that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U45	Thank you. Once again, the principles of public pension payment are different from those of public pension insurance. In order to receive a national pension, there is one requirement relating to age, and the other assumption is that the person does not receive a national pension. The Commission should certainly reconsider the principles of the Estonian pension system, on which basis we pay the old-age pension, on which basis the disability pension, on which basis the national pension is based. If necessary, we are ready to explain this separately to the Members of the Commission. However, the principles of determining a national pension have nothing to do with the way in which pension supplements are currently provided for in the State Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U46	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U47	I was gonna ask you a nasty question, but I'm not gonna ask you that. A colleague asked the question today in the Commission, and I, to be honest, was stuck. Maybe you're smarter than me. Namely, my colleague Stalnukhin asked that if a Somali citizen arrives in Estonia tomorrow with ten children, would he receive a parental pension after some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U48	Thank you. If he or she arrives here with 10 children, he or she does not have the right to a parental pension, as the inevitable assumption of a parental pension is that the parental pension will be paid after the parental benefit has expired. If he or she has a child born in Estonia and has worked long enough before, i.e. his or her pension insurance accounts have sufficient work experience, then the general principle must be that we have pension insurance moving with a person. If he works in Estonia, the time worked in Estonia will be taken into account if he works in Somalia, then the time worked in Somalia will be taken into account. Although Estonia does not have a bilateral pension insurance or social security agreement with Somalia, we do not transport the pension rights created there to Estonia. But if someone comes here with ten kids, they won't get a parental pension for those ten kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U49	Now, one issue registered on the spot. My colleague, Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U50	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I'm also asking about parental pension. I very much welcome this bill, I consider it absolutely necessary and good, although I am in part in favour of the amendments that are still coming to the discussion here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today. Since I am a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I always have to look at how all our responsibilities are handled by our state budget. What funds will cover the cost of parental pensions in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U51	Thank you. I also replied at the hearing (maybe it was at first reading, there has been so much before you about parental pension that I do not remember) that, like other types of pension provided for in the State Pension Insurance Act, parental pension is paid out of social tax income and, if there is not enough social tax income, from other tax or non-tax revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U52	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U53	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. According to TNS Emor's analysis, last year Estonians drank 11% more alcohol than before, which means that the consumption of absolute alcohol by one resident amounted to a total volume of 10.6 litres. The problem is that young people drink too much alcohol. This figure has also increased compared to last year. According to the Director of the Institute for Health Development and the Centre Party, the growing trend in alcohol consumption should be responded immediately, as the situation is tragic in view of the public health aspect. Do you agree with me that the situation is problematic and what measures and when will be taken? I am thinking of measures other than increasing excise duties on alcohol. Is there anything else to do and when?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U55	Thank you for your question. Let's start with TNS Emor. I would suggest that you rely more on the data of the Institute of Economics, because TNS Emor makes an overview of the alcohol market for the first time in the framework of the general food market survey commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture and does not take into account all the criteria taken into account by the Estonian Institute of Economics since 2000. The Conjuncture Institute presented its report last week. If you go to the Conjuncture Institute's website, you'll get that information from there. This methodology is much more accurate, it looks at time trends, the alcohol co-sponsored by tourists, the share of secret alcohol, the consumption of foreign tourists in Estonia. These data are a little more accurate. The latest data published at the end of last week say that consumption in 2011 was 5.7% higher, rising to 10.19 litres, rounded to 10.2 litres. Let's look at trends through the ages. If you take off the Conjuncture Institute page, you will see that alcohol consumption, on the one hand, is naturally linked to very different factors. On the other hand, it can be seen that this trend was very rapid to rise until 2007, then it started to come down, and for the last three years we have been at about one level, or 10 liters. We would like to see and we have set the population's health agenda as an objective so that this consumption could be less than 8 litres or less. Then we'd be more or less on the Swedish level. We're on the Finnish level right now, but we'd like to be a little bit better. As the time for answering the question is over, I will say that the measures are set out in the Green Paper on alcohol policy at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U56	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U57	Thank you. Since you did not have a very long time to talk about the measures, I am asking about one concrete measure that the Central Party Group has initiated in this Chamber and which the draft has also passed the first reading. This is, in particular, a measure prohibiting alcohol advertising. According to the World Health Organisation, this is one of the most effective measures to combat excessive alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption among young people. The Director of the Institute for Health Development also considers that an immediate and rapid response should be made. Do you think now would be a good time to get this bill out of the drawer, go ahead with its second reading and, at third reading, adopt it as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U58	Thank you. It certainly does not make sense, based on a limited amount of data, to rush headstrongly. It is reasonable that we let experts and the people involved in this sector record their thoughts. We have seven working groups, this is an inclusion process. As with the development plan for children and families, the most involved people and stakeholders are, I think, involved in the work of the Green Paper on alcohol policy. There is a separate Marketing Working Group, a Price and Tax Policy Group, a Working Party on Alcohol Access, a Working Party on Alcohol Consumption and Harm Reduction, as well as issues related to community activities and information and networking. They should all be viewed as a whole. If they are on the table, we will certainly come with proposals (of course, according to what are the possibilities) either to the Chamber of the Riigikogu if there is a need to amend the law, or to the Government if any government regulation needs to be amended. It is worth recalling that alcohol advertising is still regulated and limited in the Alcohol Act. In addition to advertising restrictions, which are at law level, producers agreed on self-regulation about a year ago. Such grey areas may have been agreed within the meaning of the law. For example, it is debatable that if the film starts at an earlier time, whether or not it is allowed to show ads after 10 o'clock. The producers themselves have clearly agreed that if the film starts early but ends after 10:00, there will be no alcohol advertising during this film. So we are waiting for the Green Paper on alcohol policy, so we can talk about it very long and widely and consider measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U59	Now the questions registered on the spot. Starts with my colleague Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Estonia is known to be at the forefront of road accidents in Europe caused by alcohol drinking. At the same time, it has been discussed in this Chamber that in many European countries it is forbidden to sell alcohol at filling stations, but in Estonia it is the opposite: drivers can buy a bottle of vodka with petrol. Do you not think that one of the possible measures would also be to ban the sale of alcohol at filling stations in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U61	Thank you. In general, the answer is the same as the answer to the previous question. Where to limit, whether anything more limit just all of it must be viewed in a set. We can compare the slides of the same economic research institute that are on their website. If you look at alcohol consumption in Estonia and Finland, you will see a paradox there. Namely, there are more than a hundred places for selling alcohol per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia, while in Finland there are only six places. Despite the fact that Finland is subject to a very severe restriction in terms of points of sale, they consume alcohol as much as they consume absolute alcohol in Estonia, last year they consumed even more. I'm sure that makes you wonder what the reason is. We have been talking to the Finns about how this is possible, given that they only have six strong alcohols per 100000 inhabitants, just about selling vodka. The simple and logical answer is that, therefore, people buy more alcohol at the same time and, if it is already in the refrigerator, it is consumed. It is very important to agree in society and in this Chamber which places alcohol can be sold and whether and how much age should be taken into account when access to alcohol. For example, the question has been whether an old person should be asked for a document and whether, if not, the document should be made punishable. I think that before we put the sellers and cashiers in charge of this and make them the subject of a possible sentence, it must be considered very seriously. In summary, I say we wait for the Green Paper and then we will go through all these measures in this Chamber as well. I'm ready to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U62	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As far as advertising on alcohol is concerned, all television channels, newspapers and all public spaces are covered in alcohol advertising in a limited and regulated form. Somewhere, green books and work group reports are written, but they are not read by our youngsters who are at risk of alcohol, nor by adult drunkards. In the Committee on Social Affairs, when the draft restricting alcohol advertising submitted by the Centre Party was discussed, the Commission unanimously agreed that this law was needed and urgently needed. When the bill arrived in the hall, the opinions were split exactly in half: the opposition was in favour and the coalition was opposed. The law was sunk. Do you also have a personal opinion on this, or do you only have the opinion of a coalition politician?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U64	Thank you. I have a personal opinion on every issue. But it is clear that when we make decisions about the state, one person's opinion, whose name is Hanno Pevkur, is not enough. We need to find a reasonable compromise between how much we limit one area of activity in the country and how much we allow competition to function. The previous so-called self-regulation of alcohol producers, which concerned the same advertising restriction, grew into a law. I told the alcohol producers, when they pointed out this self-regulation a year ago, that they should not be surprised if at one point the restriction they agreed with each other is also in the law. Certainly, it would not be worth burying any means of reducing consumption. However, these measures must be proportionate on the one hand and, of course, acceptable and understandable for the whole of society, but above all for this hall and the majority of its hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U65	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We're looking forward to this green book, and that's what I'm asking you about. When you started putting it together, you certainly had a goal for yourself and the government, perhaps you knew the result you wanted. That's what I'm asking you about. What will be the desired result if all the measures set out in the Green Paper are implemented? Is this a result, as you have already mentioned, that we, like Sweden, only consume eight litres of pure alcohol per person, or that what the WHO has been proposing is that no country should consume more than six litres of absolute alcohol per person by 2015? What is the objective if the measures set out in the book were to be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U67	Thank you. Surely the goals cannot be set in such a way that we set a goal and then it is necessary to write a green book to complete this goal. That is certainly not the case. The principle behind this Green Paper on alcohol policy has also been that we bring together all the parties involved in this area and that they say their thoughts. The objective of combating alcohol abuse is clearly stated in the population health development plan. The aim is not to consume more than eight litres of absolute alcohol per capita per year. The fact that the WHO sets higher targets is, of course, very positive; greater targets need to be set. We will be reviewing the population health development plan this year and next year there will most likely be more work ahead. There's a debate about whether or not we're coming down on the target. At the same time, we must remain realists. We could also aim to have 30,000 births a year in Estonia, but this is unrealistic. The objectives set, the existing measures and the steps taken at the level of the law to change people's behaviour must be clearly interrelated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U68	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The biggest concern about alcohol policy and excessive alcohol consumption is actually alcohol consumption and children. Literally, it still hurts that schoolchildren drink alcohol. We have discussed repeatedly in this Chamber that the state should ensure that children can be more targeted into sports halls and recreational circles. However, the state, or we in the Riigikogu, have done the opposite with our decisions. The level of personal income tax in local government budgets has been reduced and the obligation of local authorities to engage in both youth and sport has been reduced in this respect. Are you of the same opinion that we should still review the share of personal income tax and restore the share received by local authorities so that they can deal with our young people and even slightly alleviate this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U70	Thank you for your question. I am not going to hold a debate on tax policy changes right now. I'm not gonna go through with this. Don't count on it. What I will say is that, in relation to alcohol and young people, for me personally, a much bigger problem is that we have a completely unregulated whole 'new media' in the law. When we talk about restrictions on alcohol advertising, yes, on television we have restricted it, we have talked about time restrictions, but we do not talk much about this in the case of modern electronic channels. The way entrepreneurs find new tricks in advertising is an even bigger problem. Today, a large number of young people and children spend a part of their day in an electronic environment, but it is available there. As far as leisure opportunities are concerned, I agree that every step, every action that helps to better fill young people's leisure time, is only positive. I do think that local governments have opportunities to regulate it within the current budgets. While driving around Estonia, I have seen that municipalities are very different about whether and how many sports opportunities and leisure opportunities should be available. It's very different. So I can say that the reduction in tax allocations has not prevented local governments from prioritising young people and young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U71	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U72	The last issue registered is Mr Rainer Vakralt, Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U73	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The public has recently focused on Greece in relation to the future of the European Union's financial policy, but the European Financial Stability Fund has also been set up, creating a European Stability Mechanism. In short, we have built a firewall to localize the financial crisis. However, it is now speculating that Greece can separate from the euro area. Economist Andres Arrak has said that the financial crisis does not just go by because the foundations are wrong. What is your opinion and has something been done wrong? Does the Government of the Republic of Estonia have an action plan in case the firewalls fail to withstand this pain?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U74	Thank you. On 23 May, an informal meeting of the European Council was held in which the situation in Greece was also discussed alongside possible initiatives for growth. Estonia was represented at the Council meeting by Prime Minister Ansip. The informal message from the European Union's leaders was very clear that Greece was expected to make wise choices and remain in the euro area. However, it was also very clear that the programme's conditions for the so-called loan programme in Greece were intended to be met. Undoubtedly, the political decisions taken on the future of Greece's economic and financial policy are in the hands of the Greek electorate. Greece's new extraordinary elections will take place on 17 June. I think that, in the light of these things, it is very important that we have the necessary tools - or firewalls - to deal with crises, as the good questioner mentioned. At the Ecofin level, these possible alternatives will also certainly be analysed. In the case of the euro area, we must be guided by the assumption that there is no basis for changing the terms of the programme at this stage. The Greek Government, whatever the parties form it, must take this assumption into account. The central policy of our government, which also supports the views of the European Commission, is certainly very important. The central issue in the current European financial crisis is restoring the stability of public finances. This opens up opportunities for growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U75	Please, Mr Vakra, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U76	Thank you. Much has been said about the need to increase participation in the European Stability Mechanism, as it provides an opportunity for stronger action on the money market. Has the Government of the Republic calculated how much further allocations can be made from the state budget, and is the idea that Greece should, of course, be allowed to go its own way and the economy to heal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U77	Thank you. In making all these material decisions, which commitments, including possible guarantees, Estonia takes, the basis is, of course, in-depth analyses. They are not made with a risk-determining approach. As regards whether Greece should be allowed to go its own way, here I would like to reiterate the clear position of the European Council that a more sensible way of taking into account the stability of the euro area, too, is certainly that Greece will be able to take decisions in its financial policy after the elections in such a way as to be able to meet the conditions of the programme and be able to carry out structural changes in the monetary policy of its country in order to remain within the terms of the programme. This is an optimal scenario for all euro area countries. If we are also talking about the euro area's economic growth perspective, a strong and stable euro is the strongest cornerstone of this, and a strong and stable euro is also a prerequisite for every euro area Member State's perfectly sound finances. Estonia's position has been that we do not intend to make concessions here on monetary policy principles, and this position will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U78	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U79	Thank you. First of all, I like your philosophies and your considerate answers. My third question is this: do you think that, in the crisis, Europe is a poorly managed planning economy or capitalism as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U80	Thank you. As far as the current financial crisis is concerned, I think that the heart of the crisis is indeed political. This is certainly not a crisis of the fundamental principles of capitalism, starting with the free market and the solvency of market players. You can take on as many obligations as you have solvency. Like the Baron Münchhausen, the monetary policy of excruciating by his own hair is unsustainable and, in terms of the common space of the euro, it is undoubtedly dangerous for all eurozone Member States. It is therefore our clear position that no concessions must be made on the rules guaranteeing financial discipline, on the contrary, the rules on financial stability that have been agreed this year must be enforced and their functioning guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U81	The question on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee. A brief question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U82	Thank you, Madam President. It is known that European boards have been talking about a tax such as a tax on financial activities, which is quite high at EUR 57 billion a year. Yesterday, we asked Mr Lipstok how Eesti Pank felt about this. He thought the government should deal with it vigorously. What is your position, what is the role of the government and what is Eesti Pank's role in contributing to the introduction of a tax on financial activities in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U83	Thank you. The financial sector tax was, in fact, discussed at the informal Council on 23 May as one of the themes of the so-called growth package. It is undoubtedly a fundamental political choice in shaping Estonia's positions; this decision must be taken at government level in cooperation with the parliament and according to the procedure. Our view is that we attach importance to the thorough technical examination of the draft FTT, as well as to the consideration of alternatives. Our first preference regarding taxation of the financial sector is, for obvious reasons, that we prefer a global, global solution. Taxation at EU level is the second best option.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U84	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Question time's over. Many thanks to colleagues for asking questions and many thanks to ministers for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U85	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 16th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and seven other members of the Central Party Group, I will address an inquiry to the Minister of Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. We will continue our efforts to find out who must, however, respond to alleged violations of the law in Estonia. The National Audit Office inspected 88 objects and revealed that 45 of them had not been granted a building permit. We talked to the Minister of Justice about this, he pointed the finger at the Ministry of the Interior. On Monday, the Minister of the Interior came here, and he announced that this was a regional problem, so we need to talk to the Minister of Regional Affairs. Since we are very seriously interested in who the regional minister points the finger at, we will hand over this question and continue this route until we find out who is really supposed to be dealing with the crimes discovered in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U87	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on study grants and student loans and the Tax Administration Act, initiated on 28 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, initiated on 28 May, of which the Governing Commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted on 28 May 2004 was submitted to the Constitutional Committee; the members of the Riigikogu in Deniss Borodichi, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee and Kalle Laaneti. a draft law on supplementing the Penal Code, initiated on 29 May, the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a draft law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for 144 new deadlines for submitting amendments. a at 4.45 p.m. on 28 September. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U88	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Mental Aid Act, the Penal Register Act, the Penal Care Act and the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of the presence. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law 176 amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on psychiatric assistance, the Penal Register Act, the Penal Care Act and the Health Services Organisation Act. Please vote! 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U89	The third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group 183. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U90	The second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement on Privileges and Integrity between the Republic of Estonia and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia begins. Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U91	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law under discussion was completed on 10 April 2012. No amendments were tabled by 6 p.m. on 24 April 2012 by the deadline for the submission of amendments, so the second reading of the draft law should be based on the text of the first reading of the draft law. The objective of the draft act is to ensure the privileges and immunity of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft law before the second reading in its May 14th. a at a meeting where he decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory memorandum of second reading and to propose to the Riigikogu's Board that the draft law be adopted for the second reading in the Riigikogu. a the agenda for the meeting on 30 May. Based on § 115 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided its own s. At its meeting on 14 May, the Riigikogu decided to propose to the Riigikogu the adoption of the draft law as a law at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U92	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. There are no questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There were no amendments to the draft law. Since there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a law, we will go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on draft law 194 on ratification of the agreement on privileges and immunity between the Republic of Estonia and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U93	We will continue to read the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. I would like to ask the Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the amendments tabled to the draft and the procedure that took place in the Commission. The Economic Commission received no amendments from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees on 18 April after the end of the second reading of the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws in Riigikogu plenary. However, the representative of the initiator of the draft act sent 14 proposals to the Commission for consideration. In addition, suggestions and views on the draft text were received from AS Eesti Energia, NGO Eesti Taastuvenergia Koda, Nordic Power Management OÜ, AS Elering and NGO Lilleküla Society. On the basis of these proposals, the Working Group of the Economic Commission formulated a number of amendments. Now look at what happened in the working group. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for a meeting of the Commission at its meeting. a on 7 May, when all the proposals received from the representative of the initiator and market participants of the commission were examined in detail and the views of the representative of the initiator were heard. On 10 May, the Working Party of the Economic Commission also addressed the specific issues raised in previous discussions, in particular those relating to the Data Exchange Platform, and wished to bring the draft into line with the Data Protection Act. It was also considered whether and how sellers could be guaranteed access to personal consumption data in order to make targeted offers. In addition to the initiators of the draft, specialists from the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice in this field were also involved in the discussion. As a result of the discussions in the working groups, a number of proposals for the draft text were formulated in cooperation with the representatives of the initiator. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the proposals received for the second reading at three plenary sessions, and the Committee on Economic Affairs organised a public meeting on the subject. On 8 May, all the proposals received by the commission, accompanied by the views of the initiator, were presented to the members of the committee for consultation. On 15 May s. A public meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs was held on "Renewable Energy Regulations and Possible Changes." During the meeting, the Commission received an overview of the state of play of the subject and confirmed its previous view that it is not appropriate to make changes to renewable energy charges in the context of the procedure under draft 139. On 17 May 2012, the Commission examined the list of amendments drawn up by the working group and examined the views of the initiator of the draft on the various proposals. The Economic Commission decided to take full account of 21 proposals on the basis of the explanations attached to the amendments, including a number of proposals from the Estonian Energia and Lilleküla Society. All proposals supported by the Commission were supported by the representatives of the initiator of the draft. On 28 May, the Commission reviewed and endorsed some of the amendments voted on in a technically structured manner. All these changes have been available to you and I will not introduce them one by one. However, it should be stressed that the most important changes made to the second reading concern better information for consumers and more effective protection of consumer rights. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the network operator and the seller shall be obliged to inform the consumer of any change in the terms and conditions of the contract, together with an invoice to be submitted to the consumer. It is now enough to publish this information in a national newspaper, which not all consumers may notice. The protection of consumers during the heating period, i.e. from 1 October to 30 April, will also be increased. The proposal extends the right of a self-employed consumer to be protected from electricity switch-off in the event of default in winter. This right applies where electricity consumption is required to operate a heating system based on another fuel type. The other fuel-using heating system shall be the main heating system used. One amendment also clarifies the role of the Consumer Protection Board in resolving consumer disputes. The Consumer Protection Board monitors within the limits of the competences set out in the Consumer Protection Act. One of the points of dispute settlement is the Consumer Complaints Board, which is competent to resolve disputes between the consumer and the trader, which the parties have not been able to resolve by agreement and where the value of the contested goods or services is equal to or greater than EUR 20. The Electricity Market Act prepares for the opening of the electricity market from 1 January 2013, when electricity can also be consumed by the general service, the draft has therefore included a clarification that the standard terms of the general service apply to all existing network contracts. The network operator shall coordinate the standard terms and conditions of the general service with the Competition Authority. The network operator shall inform the consumer of the standard terms and conditions of the general service before 1 January 2013. Finally, I will say the Commission's procedural decisions. The commission adopted the following decisions by consensus: send the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic 139 to the Riigikogu for a second reading. On 30 May 2012, the Assembly proposed that the second reading of draft 139 be terminated and, when the second reading of the draft is completed, that the third reading be proposed as a law on 6 June 2012. That's where I'm gonna end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I will open negotiations and first call on my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U96	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, If there are no questions for the rapporteur, there are two options: whether everything is clear to everyone or whether nothing is clear. I don't think it's either way now. I believe that the content of this draft has become more or less clear to the members of the Economic Committee, because it is undoubtedly the most labour-intensive draft that has been dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs this year. The proposals on this draft and the discussions on it were indeed quite close and numerous in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But why is this law needed, and who and how will this law affect when it is adopted? The explanatory memorandum states that with this draft law we are coordinating Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and this draft law deals with the issue of our electricity market. Who's the subject of this bill? The people living in Estonia are most affected, with almost everyone. If we pay the first electricity bill next year, it will certainly be considerably higher than it was in February this year. What has this law tried to do? Efforts have been made to make it less painful for consumers to go to the open market so that there are clear rules on the market for consumers and other market players (electricity producers, electricity grids, so-called transmissions and all kinds of intermediaries). What will change for consumers besides price? Certainly the fact that next year there will no longer be one contract, but there will be two contracts: one for the purchase of electricity and the other for the transfer of electricity. In this sense, the risk increases because you no longer have one partner, but two, and they can both do you good, but it can happen the other way around. With this law, we are trying to protect consumers so that this is not happening. Who's gonna win this law? In the first step, it can be said that Eesti Energia will definitely win. Currently, Narva Power Plants receive 2.9 eurocents for one kilowatt-hour; next year, they will sell it at market price. The market price is 4.6 cents this year. That's a few dozen million. It's gonna win who gets the money. Of course, Eesti Energia wins, but also wins the Estonian state budget, because the budget strategy of the Estonian state has already been written into the next year that 200 million euros of dividends will be taken from Eesti Energia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U97	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U98	Whether it's smart or not, I'm not going to analyze it. You could say so and so, depending on the situation, but the owner has the right to take dividends in any case. So the Estonian state will have the opportunity to win. The Estonian state has won quite a lot in the last six years, raising the share of taxes in the price of electricity. There was a report yesterday or the day before yesterday, where we saw that 204% of the electricity price had been added as taxes. This means that electricity taxes have doubled, including renewable energy tax. So the opening up of the market will be won by Eesti Energia and the Estonian state. We hope that consumers will win something someday too, if not directly, at least through the fact that, if the Estonian state has won, it will give the people the money back through the budget. However, in order to make this price bang, which is unfortunately coming, softer, the Alliance of Democrats in the Riigikogu has proposed that consumers' renewable energy tax, which is currently more than 12%, should be abolished. This would certainly ease the financial situation of our families next year. Why not do so with the money from the sale of CO2 quotas? One part of the Electricity Market Act could and will be the subject of renewable energy. So we can meet the main market participant, the client. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U99	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. Mr Urve Palo, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U100	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Some of the thoughts I'm saying now have come out of my mouth before on this very floor, but, as they say, repetition is the mother of wisdom. Since the situation has not changed in the meantime, some things simply need to be repeated. I'm asking for three more minutes right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U101	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U102	The price of electricity has a significant impact on our daily performance. The price of electricity depends on both the amount of home expenses and the price of bread and milk in shops. As electricity rises, the prices of goods rise and our cart increases. The electricity market opening in 2013 could again lead to an increase in electricity prices of up to 20%. This is why the country should take action today to ease the price increase that we are facing for consumers. The final electricity price for the consumer consists of five components: basic tariff, network service, renewable energy fee, electricity excise duty and VAT. However, the State has the possibility to influence electricity prices in particular by reducing taxes, subsidies and network charges. However, the government has shown no desire to reduce electricity taxes, even since 2013. The Social Democrats submitted a draft in September last year, which provided for a reduction of the electricity excise duty in Estonia from 1 January next year to the minimum rate established by the European Union. At present, it is 4.5 times higher for private consumers and 8 times higher for business users than the standards require. In the event of a decrease in excise duty, electricity bills would decrease by nearly 4%. The government has the possibility to reduce subsidies, or renewable energy charges, which currently account for about 9% of household electricity bills. In order to stop supporting renewable energy through increased electricity bills for consumers, renewable energy can be developed, for example, through the sale of CO2 quotas or through European structural funds. In addition, support for new renewable energy developments should depend on changes in energy prices on the market in such a way as to reduce subsidies as prices rise. In this respect, only development based on local renewable fuels and enhancing our energy security should be supported. New developments should be supported, not the co-incineration of fossil and renewable fuels in old boilers, as is currently the case in Narva Power Plants. Speaking of network charges, which currently account for about 40% of electricity bills, the Social Democrats believe that the Competition Authority should play a greater role and also have independence in deciding how electricity prices are to be developed. The competition authority should be given more extensive rights to protect consumers in the event of withdrawal. The Competition Authority cannot fulfil its role as an independent agency in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Competition Authority must therefore be brought to another ministry or constitutional institution in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We have also proposed this to the Minister of Justice. National energy policy should seek solutions to ensure that consumers are supplied with electricity at affordable prices. However, this draft electricity market law restricts, on the contrary, the possibility, for example, of constructing a direct line, as it allows the network operator to prevent the construction of a direct line. At the same time, the construction of a direct line and its sale of electricity from the power plant are beneficial to the consumer in several respects. The construction of a direct line can be cheaper and faster than connecting to the network of the network operator, which, depending on the location of the customer, can be costly and long-term, especially if the network has so far been absent in the region. With the sale of direct electricity, the producer will be able to create more competition on the electricity market and offer a lower electricity price, which is the idea of opening up the electricity market. This problem was also referred to by the Social Democrats during the procedure of the draft law, but we did not find any support. In addition to the above, the Estonian state should focus energy policy on reducing energy consumption and the sustainable use of energy. The country has many modern ways of helping consumers make their homes more energy-efficient. The first thing is that energy producers should be involved in energy saving by imposing an annual obligation on the largest producers to save energy to the extent stipulated by the State, with a particular emphasis on the savings achieved by the final consumer. In a simplified way, this means that Eesti Energia, for example, needs to change windows in some homes to achieve the agreed savings each year, to heat the fassad and to acquire new household appliances and light sources that are energy-saving. The scheme is beneficial for producers, as energy savings are often cheaper than the creation of new production capacities. Secondly, a legal framework should be created for the emergence of the market for energy service companies. These companies take on the financing of projects and the implementation of austerity measures, benefiting from energy savings. In Estonia, the state would need to establish a regulatory framework which would result in cooperation between banks and KredEx, for example, and consumer ownership would not apply. Despite the fact that the Energy Services Directive requires the creation of the necessary environment for the operation of energy service companies, the Estonian state has not met this requirement, although the Social Democrats have told the Minister of Economic Affairs about this. Thirdly, an action plan for smart grids at national level should be drawn up so that consumers can at any moment see how much electricity, water or gas they consume. However, the electricity producer will be able to better manage energy consumption. This proposal was also proposed by the Social Democrats on the draft law, but it was not supported. The Estonian energy system works like a hundred years ago: electricity produced by individual large power plants reaches home through transmission and distribution lines, but we inform the energy seller how much we have consumed and pay bills. Large losses up to 30% have been programmed into such a system. Finally, we consider it important that the energy market protects the people who are in need. All residents of Estonia, regardless of their income and place of residence, must be guaranteed the possibility of consuming the amount of energy services necessary for normal living activities. The National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice have also referred to the fact that the price increase resulting from the opening-up of the electricity market affects the most vulnerable people. Room and electricity must be available to everyone in a minimum agreed range under the Euro Directives. The task of the state is to find levers to make it happen. I'm afraid we haven't seen those levers so far. It should be said that even the Socialists' proposal to exclude child support from the calculation of income support has been voted down by the coalition. Thank you and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U103	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are 21 amendments to the draft law, and we will start reviewing them. The first proposal is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The second and third proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and are fully taken into account. The fourth and fifth proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and are fully taken into account. The 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The 15th and 16th proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The 17th, 18th and 19th proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The 20th and 21st proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 139 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U104	The second reading of the draft law on the amendment of state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would ask the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U105	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to pass on to you the discussions that took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs during the debate on bill 206. After the first reading, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at least four times: 7, 8, 14 and 28. I will not burden you with the names of all the people who were present in these debates. During our debate, my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, raised the question of whether another draft could not be combined with Bill 206, which is also in the Riigikogu's proceedings. This draft shall be dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and shall bear the number 10. I would also like to make some comments on this draft. It is recalled that Bill No 10 was initiated on 12 April 2011 and its first reading was completed last June. This draft also concerned the reduction of state fees. The draft was based on the knowledge that the people of the Centre Party had at the time. Who compares today's draft government and this previous draft, it sees some differences in them, also to the detriment of the Central Party draft. My recommendation to the Centre Party, completely non-political, is to withdraw this draft from the procedure because, according to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the non-compliance with the constitution of the state fees relating to recourse to the court can be eliminated by this bill 206 and the part that the Committee on Legal Affairs could support in its proposals was also supported in the context of the procedure of the draft 206. Besides, a member of the Riigikogu who processed this bill, Andrus Saare, has already left us. He left to do other jobs. She's alive and well, yesterday I saw her, she was full of health. In general, there is a consensus on state fees in the sense that the charges in force are high and must be lowered. However, there has been no similar consensus throughout the history and procedure of the draft, as to whether amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other acts to be amended within the framework of the draft should be dealt with together. So, the good old cluster debate is up. The result of the Commission's work is in front of you, and it is based on the idea that both access to justice and greater efficiency of justice must be contributed, without, of course, forgetting the quality of the trial and the protection of fundamental human rights. Whether to deal with these drafts together or separately, we had a debate on 14 May, to which we also invited Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. As a result of this debate, it was found that we are moving forward on the basis of the draft proposed by the government, but also, of course, taking into account the amendments that have been tabled to us during the procedure. First of all, those inputs and proposals which were not in favour of the Commission in such a way that they would have become amendments initiated by the Commission. One such example is the proposal of the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations on § 563 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which deals with conciliation procedures in the event of violation of the regulation governing communication with the child. The proposal of the Round Table of Women's Associations was understandable to us, but since this proposal, by its very nature, departs from the logic of the current law and the discussions between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice on how to involve the topic of domestic violence and specialists in the process of making such agreements with children, it remained the task of the executive authority to clarify the solutions by the end of this year. In the Commission, we decided to move forward with the wording proposed by the government, which certainly improves the situation and also simplifies the procedures in relation to the current law, bringing together the two procedures. The only substantive vote on whether, in principle, to change the law in force, as proposed by the government, was on the subject of bailiffs and on the supervision of bailiffs. Now I have a special report for the journalist Tuuli Koch, whom I asked to observe the debate. It has been said here that the Members of the Commission have complained that we are dealing with the cluster law and that there are some problems. Indeed, the vote was not on whether the law on bailiffs should be dealt with in the context of this draft, because there are also aspects relating to the service of procedural documents, but whether the provisions on the supervision of bailiffs should remain in the law in their original form, as set out in § 55 of the law on bailiffs in force, or whether the provisions proposed by the Government should be moved forward. As a result of the discussion and the vote, we have come to the conclusion that the provisions on the supervision of bailiffs will continue to be as proposed by the government, i.e. the current law will be amended. One of the proposals was made by the Estonian Banking Association. According to this, the threshold for claims authorised under the urgent procedure for a payment order would have been raised from EUR 6400 to EUR 10000. It must be said that the Members of the Commission did not have any fundamental problems with this amendment. However, the same provision has given rise to a great deal of discussion, since it is possible that the authorisation of public service could lead to a more back-to-back procedure and thus create more uncertainty in the future. The Commission proposal was not born here either. Two proposals were made by the Association of Estonian Credit Management Companies. These concerned the proposal to reduce the state fee for the European Enforcement Order document. The draft law provided for a state fee of EUR 50 and, if the application is submitted via an electronic information system, EUR 25. The proposal was that the new fees would be EUR 10 and EUR 5. The proposal was motivated by the fact that it is a judicial act requiring relatively little work and that there is allegedly no charge for the issue of a European Enforcement Order document in neighbouring countries. The Commission partly supported this proposal, thereby also supporting the proposal of the Centre Party Group, bringing these fees to EUR 25 and to EUR 10 on electronic submission. Their second proposal concerned the regulation of representative remuneration to be recognised in the order for payment procedure in order to bring it into line with the logic of the rest of the Code of Procedure. However, as this is an urgent procedure, the Commission considered that there was no reason to proceed in turn as to whether the applicant had used the contractual agent for whom additional costs had been incurred or whether the person had submitted the application himself. Thus, according to the law, in any such procedure, EUR 20 is meant to cover the costs of proceedings in a uniform manner, regardless of who made the application. In the meantime, the proposals of Harju County Court judge Viivi Villemson were exciting and stormy. The reasons are very simple: the differences between the views of the judges of the county and circuit courts, as well as the insufficient examination of the provisions. Now for the official amendments. Based on the debate on the cluster law and the discussion on how these other laws relate to the state fee law, we have put a new title on the draft law. Or rather, it was Councilman Linnar Liivägi. As we know, after the first reading, the title was "A draft law amending the State Fees Act and related amendments to other laws'. The following reasoning did not appear in the Commission's debate, but I am talking about it. On Sunday, I went to the Tammsaare Museum to see Urmas Plane's production in the Shadow of Vargamäe. Maril, along with Andres, was known to be the son of Indrek. He was such a gay guy. In the handling of the plane, Andres offered to name the boy Igerik, Igerik Paas. Pear said when he heard that name from Marit, Indrek was a beautiful name. That is why we decided that Igerik is not the name of a good law, and the new title of the draft law is now 'the draft law amending the state fees law, the code of civil procedure and other laws'. The Committee on Legal Affairs fully supported this proposal. I have already touched on the proposal for a European Enforcement Order certificate. The new fees are as follows: EUR 25 and EUR 10 on application on the website. That was why we could take part in the proposal of the Centre Party Group. The Centre Party had a proposal for a single lawn, on the basis of which the judge can decide whether or not a lower rate of state fees can be used to lodge a complaint. In the current text of the law, the wording is that a judge can do so for good reason. This 'for good reason' should not be written in the text of the law, the Centre Party thinks. Indeed, this is a judge's discretion. Even now, every time a judge evaluates whether this reason is effective. If this system has worked so far, it will certainly continue to work. It may also be that a person simply does not have a computer and cannot use the cheaper application option. We also failed to take into account the proposals of the Centre Party Group on further reductions in state fees. The reasons are very simple. The government's proposal is an analysis and balanced proposal. It should certainly not be forgotten that there is a cost side to all this court proceedings. Good deeds are possible, but free things always have a price. Judge Villemson's proposals formed a proposal amending § 330 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It concerns the final date for the submission of applications and applications. All of these must be submitted before the end of the preliminary procedure or, in the case of written proceedings, before the expiry of the time limit for the submission of applications, in order to prevent endless disclosure of evidence and to avoid malicious behaviour by the parties to the proceedings. We also changed the Code of Criminal Procedure. This concerns the size of the formation of the court. It is known that § 18 of the Code is in force, which designates the formation of the court. For example, in the case of criminal organisations, this means that the case must be dealt with by a formation of three judges. There was a consensus in the Commission that this was a waste of the Court's resources. Paragraph 18 (3) is proposed to be abolished. In the meantime, we also had a version under discussion, according to which the judge himself or a specific court could decide on the composition of the case. But in the debate with the people of the Supreme Court, we have come to the conclusion that it may not occur, but there may be problems with § 24 of the Constitution, which concerns a person's so-called belonging to a particular court. It should be clear for what kind of sin the formation of which and of whom the trial is to be held. The Commission supported this proposal, and so our debate ended. We have examined the proposals and we have come to the conclusion that the draft is ripe for second reading. The second reading must be concluded in the Commission's view and, if the second reading is completed, next week it will be possible to adopt the draft as a law in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U106	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. You have questions. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U107	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! The President of the Republic has reprimanded us for cluster laws. The President of the Riigikogu has also asked the Prime Minister not to come here with such drafts. The draft we are debating today concerns, I am simply saying, for information, the amendment of the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Law of the Courts, the Law of the bailiff and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I dare say that some of these laws, such as the Law on Courts, have traditionally been in the proceedings of the Constitutional Committee during the previous formations of the Riigikogu. Hence my question: if this is not a cluster law (it seemed to me that you said that), what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U108	I dare say it's a cluster law, but it's a cluster law in a good way. The question is what unites these laws. Two things are connected: on the one hand, access to justice and, on the other hand, the speed of processing, which is also very important. You, who are a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, also remember this debate, the President's reproach on us and our actions during the previous term, when the Gender Equality Act and the laws determining the size of the Tallinn City Council were put together. Even in the course of this debate, we now arrive at a sense of humor, one of the respected rights characters came to the conclusion that a very reasonable link can be found here too. I would like to say that it is useful and reasonable for the Estonian people to be involved in these laws at the moment, which will help people to have better access to justice. That's why I don't think it's a sin. Every time you look at it, you have to look at it separately. Of course, it would also have been possible for us to have been here eight times in a row before you with different laws and have finally reached the same result.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U109	Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U110	Thank you. Good colleague! Is there a forecast that if state fees fall, which in itself is very positive, how much could the workload of the courts be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U111	Thanks! The criterion of truth is time. The Ministry of Justice, as the author of the draft, has offered that applications will certainly increase, because state fees are lower and access to the court is therefore better. If we come to the issue of this cluster law, we have a number of measures here that should make the trial more effective: certain nuances in delivery and payment in urgent order procedures, etc. Today it is not possible to say (although there are prerequisites for doing so) what happens at the speed of the trial or the procedure as a whole, whether the average speed of a person's trial in Estonia is faster or not, because there is a greater burden on the one hand, but on the other hand, there are countermeasures. We're hoping it'll get faster, but we'll find out after the law comes into force. It will then be seen how great this change, which concerns even this barrier to state fees, really was.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U112	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! We know that this bill came from the Commission instead, how to say, thinner, then all kinds of suggestions started to come out of the door-to-door window and the serious action started. Do you think this procedure is reasonable, or should the executive authority, or ministry, clarify matters first and only then come up with very clear common positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U114	Thanks! That could be another debate. If K like cluster law is such an important issue, then another important issue is K like rubber stamp: should Riigikogu committees only approve the drafts submitted by the government or process them themselves? When people or organisations address us, it does not matter to me, as chairman of the committee, who these people or organisations are and how capital and fundamental their proposals are. This is where the Commission's ability to distinguish between grains and chums is important. Of course, it will take more time in the Commission, otherwise it would have been spent somewhere in the Ministry of Justice. Inclusion, including the k word, is, as we know, an important element. I assume our committee had the ability to make these choices. If we look at the results of the vote on concrete proposals, we will see that we have reached quite a consensus. When we felt that a heated debate was going on outside, we allowed this debate to continue outside the Riigikogu premises.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U115	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I'm still not gonna give up. Do you think it is normal that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs had to discuss this same cluster law, and I can now use this word officially without having had time to prepare for, for example, the revision of the additional proposals of this same Code of Criminal Procedure? We actually discussed non-existent amendments. We voted for the sake of the matter, but does that satisfy you? Is that what this is supposed to happen in a judicial system that has developed for twenty years? Do we have a fire all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U117	I don't know anything about 20 years. But what I do know is that one enemy of the handler is time, in addition to the other enemy, which is money. I am afraid that if the Riigikogu does not overhaul anything in its operating procedures, then our more intensive working periods will remain April, May and June, as well as November and December. Of course, the issue in itself is that our predecessors as legislator have given us the opportunity to deal with matters three days a week. It is in the hands of the Committee on Legal Affairs or of the people of any committee how much working hours we spend to solve a problem and how we do it. I'd say it'd be a lot more comfortable if everything was produced on a tray and the tray was made with white gloves on, but there are different situations in real life. Again, it is important to know how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U118	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U119	Hello again! Politics is, of course, such an art of chatter, but the facts are also sometimes relevant. As regards the law of the courts and the law of the bailiff, in the context of this draft, it is entirely relevant law. Why? Because they concern procedural economics. When we come to the Law of the Courts - Neeme, listen carefully! This law has been dealt with here because, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, it would be possible to send a judge to judge under any circumstances. The age line tends to come, but it is now possible to extend the work of the judge by law. I've called it an old and fine topic. It is procedural economics and it is important. The role of bailiffs in this context relates to service of documents. This is once again related to procedural economics. Indeed, it may be discussed whether or not the monitoring bar should have been dealt with, but we discussed it and reached such a conclusion. There was intensive talk here about how we decided whether or not to have a cluster law, and how we voted on it. I interrogated the tape yesterday. We voted on a single matter on this issue, and that was the question of the supervision of bailiffs, whether or not to grub it out of this law. However, there was no vote on whether or not the Code of Civil Procedure and all other laws could be combined with the State Fees Act. There was no such vote. Now for honor. I've been honest with this bill. Everything valuable that the Centre Party has had to put into this bill, I have brought out and mentioned in the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U120	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 206 amendments to the draft. The first amendment is from the lead committee. The second amendment is from the lead committee. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the position of the commission is that it should be partially taken into account. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is that the proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U121	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U122	Thank you. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 28 against 47 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is that the proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U123	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U124	Good fellows, I'm afraid I didn't hear you. There's too much noise in the hall. I ask you, Kadri Simson, to repeat your request, and I ask the others to keep quiet!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U125	Please vote on Amendment 5 of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U126	I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 29 and against 46 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the lead committee, Amendment 7 has been tabled by the lead committee and Amendment 8 has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 206 should be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U127	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! One of the main reasons for amending the law on state fees was that it was contrary to the Constitution, which Mr Teder repeatedly pointed out. Will this conflict be removed if the new law enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U129	According to both the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs, yes. But as long as the state fees are of greater value than zero, it is certainly possible to further develop this debate, and it is still not an unconstitutional situation. There's no answer to that in law, I guess. We expect that we have achieved a situation that is compatible with the Constitution. In the knowledge that we will achieve this, we have dealt with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U130	No further questions. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Neeme the Great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U131	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't come here to tell you how bad it is to cut state fees. Far from it! The Social Democratic Party still stands for the unreasonably high reduction of state fees. The state fees in the case were too high. The substantial increase in state fees in court proceedings started in 2008, i.e. four years ago. Some fees went up four to five times. The high state fees were certainly based on the principle of costorientation, but were much higher than in many other countries of the European Union. This significantly reduced access to justice. Now there will be a correction of the errors and the state fees involved in the trial will be reduced. It is true that state fees are far from falling back to the level where they were in 2008 before they were raised. For example, in the case of a non-material claim, before the change, the state fee was 64 euros, the current minimum is 319 euros and the current draft plans a fixed rate of 300 euros. Instead of EUR 319, EUR 300 is not a significant decrease. For example, if a member of the building management company disagrees with the decision of the management board of the cooperative and wants to cancel it in court, the court is quite expensive to apply to him under this bill. However, the draft will direct society towards a paperless economy, so that the state fee will be lower when the application is submitted electronically than when the application is submitted on paper. In principle, the direction of the draft can be considered correct because state fees are falling. Since the reduction of state fees certainly increases the number of cases before the Court, changes to the procedural economy, such as those relating to the service of procedural documents, the provision of additional material during the procedure, etc., can be considered in principle and relevant. So where's the problem? The problem is that the Ministry of Justice, as a drafter, who should also stand for the implementation of good lawmaking practice, does not consider it important for itself to follow this practice. The same syndrome, however, seems to be affecting most of the Committee on Legal Affairs. One good comment has been made in the Committee on Legal Affairs: 'May this be the last time! " It was about cluster laws. I should ask if it isn't the last time that this time couldn't be the last time. For example, the draft concerns the change of the maximum duty rate for judges and the dismissal of judges on grounds of age. The Chancellor of Justice expressed the opinion that the specific situation in Ida-Viru County is an urgent need to change, but nevertheless this problem is separate from the motivation and purpose of the draft. Although the draft explanatory memorandum tries very carefully to clarify that a combination of several laws is necessary in this case and is not a cluster bill, the provisions amending the law of the bailiff have also been incorporated into the draft. However, this is a completely different issue. Clarification of the policies of bailiffs is in any case important and deserves special consideration, which has also been pointed out by the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators. All the more so as this is not a technical change, but the draft gives the Ministry of Justice the right to intervene in the substantive issues of the bailiff's decision-making procedure. This is an important change in the way bailiffs work. There is a general question of the legal status of public agencies, i.e. so-called liberal professions (e.g. lawyers, auditors, insolvency practitioners). We should not make such fundamental changes without a broader and more thorough discussion. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U132	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U133	Hurrying means that there is little time for coordination and involvement, and the quality of the draft can be affected. For example, the Commission's amendment No 7 concerning the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the amendment of the formations of courts before the Court of First Instance in criminal proceedings relating to a criminal organisation. The amendment concerned the right of the court to decide on its own composition and the involvement of judges. Both state and national judges responded to the amendment. There was a signal from the state judges that this could be a breach of the Constitution. The People's Courts Association has found in its address that the amendment is not in line with the purpose of the legislation and that the addition has not been discussed with the parties. The Commission hastened to say no to the proposed amendment as a matter of urgency. It went well this time. However, if the Union of National Judges does not discuss how and when the national judges could take part in the proceedings, it shows that this is a haste and insufficient involvement. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not 1992 or 2002, but 2012. There should no longer be a situation that some area of life is so unorganized that there is no law more than no law at all. Decisions on good lawmaking practice exist at the level of the Riigikogu; the draft exists at the level of the government. These documents concern our daily activities. We'll stick to them, then! The Social Democrats do not want to prevent this bill from being processed. We attach great importance to the fundamental nature of this draft, which is to improve access to justice. But we apply very strongly and loudly for the application of good procedural practice in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U134	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group has taken several legislative initiatives to reduce state fees. It is embarrassing to remember how many state fees were raised under the leadership of Rein Lang, the previous Minister of Justice, and how it was approved with the votes of the coalition politicians of the previous Riigikogu, how expensive the court was made. It was very nice to read in an article in the newspaper of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a very good colleague of Mr Pomerants, that court attendance must become cheaper, that our state fees are nearly three times higher than those of other countries. At the same time, I would remind you that it was the Reform Party and the IRL who voted in favour of these huge high fees in the previous Riigikogu. By the way, court fees are not now three times, but sometimes even 14 times higher than in other countries. In 2009, when the law was amended, a fee of EEK 10000, 14 times more than in Sweden, 6 times more than in Russia and 5 times more than in Finland, had to be paid for the claim of EEK 100000. I have, by the way, in front of my eyes this picture of Minister Rein Lang justifying a sudden increase in fees, saying that people do not have to go to court so much and satisfy their low feelings. He used those exact words! So we're gonna get the feeling that we're gonna cause the problem again, and then we're gonna fight it out, telling people we're gonna do it now. In fact, there was no other way out of the coalition because Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder had declared such high fees to be in breach of the Constitution and sent a written report to the Riigikogu in September last year, pointing out the magnitude of the legal problem arising from it. The Supreme Court was also of the same opinion, which has also referred to the problem. That's why the coalition was forced to cut the fees. We drew attention to the problem already during the previous term and also at the beginning of the work of the current term, in April 2011, we put the relevant draft law into the procedure. As has already been said here today, Bill No 10 was declared suitable in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, its first reading was concluded, it was found that the fees had to be reduced, but then the bill was left in the drawer, as usual. When we asked the Committee on Legal Affairs about this, they asked to contact the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This is a typical behaviour in rejecting the opposition bill, which we have already experienced a great deal. I think that if this bill had gone into operation and its proceedings had been completed, the fees would have been lower for a year now and it would have been easier for people to get to court to solve their problems. Although the coalition wants to take all the credit, we are glad that this bill is in the process. One can only ask what are the current reasonable rates of state fees. Our group is convinced that the rates in the draft are still a little too high. The possibility of recourse to the courts is still an essential fundamental right from a judicial point of view. Today, there are plenty of countries in the European Union where access to justice is much cheaper: Italy, Slovenia, England, Austria, Poland and many other countries. On the one hand, the fee must be high enough to cover the costs of legal proceedings, on the other hand, it must be low enough to guarantee access to justice. The Centre Party also proposed its amendments. Two of them were not taken into account and the third was partially taken into account, for which the Committee on Legal Affairs was very grateful. We believe that high state fees cannot be effective if they restrict everyone's right and freedom to defend themselves. Unfortunately, the bill does not actually allow this protection, and recourse to court remains in some cases a privilege for rich people. But basically, we support this bill. I would like to take up again the problem that has already been raised. As we have said, we did not support the fact that another cluster bill was brought here. It's good or bad, but it's a cluster bill. We do not agree that, in the context of this draft, we should address the Code of Civil Procedure and many other issues that have been read out here for a long time. It is noteworthy that we also voted whether or not to exclude these other problems. The votes were divided into half 5: 5, but it was not enough for the decision to be different. It is a pity that those who have voiced criticism of the cluster proposals voted exactly as the coalition must vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U136	Thank you. I would like the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U137	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! However, the draft law No 10, which was submitted a year ago by the Centre Party, which provided for the reduction of state fees, was so good that its first reading was completed. I do not deny that this bill is a little out of date today and that the country's options are now different. But did the coalition make a mistake when it did not proceed with this bill? We could have had lower fees for nearly a year now, and access to justice could have been better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U138	Thanks! In the course of the 206 debate on the draft, very interesting debates have arisen about the nature of Parliament's work, and I agree with these debates, although we did not discuss it in the committee. But basically there's always two ways. One way is that the first reading will be completed, knowing that this bill cannot be legal (I dare say it because almost everyone here is experienced politicians), but at the same time there are some arguments that support the completion of the first reading. The other way is that the first reading will not be stopped. As the chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs or any committee, I am in favour of, and I am in favour of (of course I do not know whether I am in favour of it in the future) such an approach that, if you can see that the draft is not going to become a law, there is no point in concluding the first reading. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Affairs is not expected to come up with such drafts. For example, we have a draft from the Social Democrats, where we had a debate on whether the draft from the government in the future could be better. We decided that next week, when we start discussing this bill, we could stop reading it for the first time, but still for the sake of finally having the law. In this particular case, I do not know what the arguments of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were. I'm sure there was a problem like that upstairs. After the cost statements, you can ask the chairman of the committee, Sven, what the committee meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U139	We are going to the sixth item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending the Law on maritime safety. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Member of the Legal Affairs Committee Siim Kabritsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U140	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Maritime Safety Act, or the Voluntary Maritime Salvation Act in the language of the people, was discussed by the Legal Affairs Committee at its six sessions. Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and representatives of several voluntary organisations were invited, including representatives of the Estonian Voluntary Marine and Järve Salvation Association, the Voluntary Maritime Rescue Association and the Estonian Private Salvation Association. A total of 12 amendments were submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs, nine of which were fully accounted for, one in substance, one in part and one was disregarded. In particular, the proposal for reimbursement of expenses relating to the reimbursement of training, transport and other expenses incurred by a person wishing to become a voluntary sea rescuer in the case of budgetary resources of the Police and Border Guard Board was not taken into account. The regulation of reimbursement of costs is reflected in other proposals in another wording. Some of the amendments concerning the concept of sea rescue work within the meaning of the draft law and the amendment concerning which authority should be entitled to organise and carry out voluntary maritime rescue training were taken into account. The Commission took full account of the various amendments concerning, in particular, the concept of sea rescue work within the meaning of the draft law. There were very passionate disputes over the prevention work. The question arose as to what could voluntary marine rescue societies be? Are there three types: maritime rescue and prevention societies, voluntary associations that are simply involved in prevention, or maritime rescue associations? The amendment, which was taken into account by the Commission but which raised questions, concerned reimbursement of costs for prevention and rescue at sea. Questions were also raised by the certificate of a voluntary marine rescuer, namely, which school's graduation certificate automatically gives you a sea rescuer's certificate without passing the exam. In addition, the requirements for recognition as a voluntary sea rescuer raised questions. Very many questions were raised by the procedure for carrying the special character of a voluntary marine rescuer, what this speciality could be and how to wear it. It was discussed what are those persons who are banned from being recognised as a voluntary marine rescuer and how the Marine Rescue Society could learn before sending a person to training that this person would not be entitled to become a marine rescuer. It was discussed how this exchange of information could take place with the Police and Border Guard Board. In addition, questions were raised as to the suitability of a motor vehicle driver's medical certificate as evidence if he or she wished to become a sea rescuer and had to prove that he or she was fit for health. It was discussed whether a driver's medical certificate would be appropriate. The Commission supported this proposal. There was also a request for the conclusion of a civil law contract for the organisation of voluntary maritime rescue work and for the benefits and guarantees of a voluntary marine rescue and non-profit association. The question was what these guarantees and benefits are and at what point could they be implemented. The Commission proposed that the deadline for the entry into force of the law should be 1 September, just before the autumn storms. The first option of the draft act envisaged the beginning of May at the time of entry into force, namely 1 May. The Commission also raised questions about the right of marine rescuers to exercise direct coercion against third parties and the social security of marine rescuers in their maritime rescue tasks. The Commission took procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 30 May 2012 (consensus decision), to close the second reading (consensus decision) and to close the third reading when the second one is closed, and to have the draft at third reading on 6 June (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U141	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will go to the examination of the 158 amendments to the draft. The first amendment is from Neeme Big and the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs is that the proposal should be partially taken into account. The second amendment is from the lead committee. The third amendment is from the lead committee. The fourth amendment is from the lead committee. The fifth amendment is Neeme Big and the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs is that the proposal should be taken into account in substance. The sixth amendment is from the lead committee. The seventh amendment is from the lead committee. The eighth amendment is from the lead committee. The ninth amendment is from the lead committee. The tenth amendment is Neeme Big and the position of the commission is that the proposal should be disregarded. The eleventh amendment is from the lead committee. The 12th amendment is from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments and the position of the lead committee is that the second reading should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U142	We will move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 175. I ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was completed on 6 March. After the first reading, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed it at five meetings: 19 March, 19 April, 3 May, 8 May and 28 May. Discussions were also held in the working group. The discussions were long and thorough. In addition to the members of the Legal Affairs Committee, the Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Justice Kristel Siitam-Nyir, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Saale Laos, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy Priit Heinsoo, Representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Representatives of various interest groups also participated in some of the meetings, as did Jaanus Tehver, member of the Board of the Bar Association, Jüri Jõema, CEO of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Counsellor of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court Allan Plekksepp, representative of the Defence Police Eerik Heldna, representative of the Prosecutor General of the State Norman Aas. In total, 14 formal amendments were received for the second reading of this draft by the Commission, nine by the Commission and five by Kalle Jents, together with the members of the group. For the sake of truth, three of the proposals made by the Committee on Legal Affairs came from the Special Committee on Security Authority Supervision and its Chairman. These were also among the proposals of the most fundamental nature. Since all the proposals have been dealt with in detail in the explanatory memorandum and in the list of amendments, I will not deal with them all individually, only the more important ones. First of all, the Commission has reviewed the register in the draft law on which criminal activities are possible. A number of further elements of the crime were proposed, where the Commission found, after hearing the reasons given by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, that there could indeed be a need for surveillance. Here are such formations as attacking a non-military object, threatening, forgery of election results, buying a voice, as well as crimes of this kind, such as piracy, piracy, trafficking in counterfeit goods. It is clear that the interest of the prosecutor's office and the investigating authorities is that this list should be extended. Of course, surveillance provides an additional opportunity to gather evidence, while the interest of defence representatives is that this list should be shorter. The Attorney General proposed to withdraw a few configurations from the first reading option, such as crimes consisting in the sexual abuse of minors. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs considered that sexual intercourse with childhood, the offspring of sexual intercourse, coercion to satisfy sexual passion, as well as the theft, as well as the crimes that might be committed at the place of detention, should remain on the list. The Commission therefore did not support these lawyers' proposals. We discussed very thoroughly the whole communication of surveillance activities. In this respect, as I mentioned, a number of proposals were made in cooperation with the Security Authority Monitoring Commission. One of them is that data on the relevant general statistics are to be published annually: how many surveillance operations were launched, how many persons and the number of types of surveillance operations, as well as the number of persons to be traced. The Committee on Legal Affairs also proposed the establishment of a comprehensive intelligence system for surveillance activities. We admitted it was quite expensive. The indicative cost of the system was also proposed, which could be around half a million euros. The Commission therefore concluded that this provision could enter into force on 1 January 2015. Then the state will have time to plan how to find the means to get the system in place. There was also a very fundamental debate in the Commission on how this implementing provision should work under the new principles and new provisions. What is there to deny, the desire of the Chancellor of Justice's office is probably such that it could be done retroactively for up to eight years. The Ministry of Justice, however, suggested that it would take me not knowing the resources of several people in about 25 years. We found it useful to launch the whole new system on 1 January 2013 and not to force courts to carry out retrospective checks on all old surveillance activities. It's not like they've done these things once in a while, with the DA's permission. The Commission also points out that, if a citizen suspects that his or her rights have been violated, has been followed and has not been informed, he or she will be able to submit an application to the prosecutor's office and must be given an answer. Of course, you can also appeal to the court. A number of other issues were discussed in the Commission, which took quite a while, but which did not form proposals for improvement. With the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed during the first reading how to guarantee that the sensitive data obtained by surveillance activities would not be reflected in the media. We didn't find any good medicine. It was also suggested that it should be criminalised, even banned from publishing such data in the press. Could it be a criminal offence or a misdemeanor? There is a risk that in this case we will be accused of muzzled the press, so obviously this is not a good idea. But surely this question will remain in the air in the near future. Maybe you have some good ideas about how to ensure it better. The Head of the Association of Communications Undertakings was concerned whether additional costs would arise for the telecommunications operators if this regime changed. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice repeatedly stressed that the number of queries as a set would not change. Also, regular queries that do not fall under surveillance procedures, such as requests for call details, cannot be made simply but in the course of the procedure. So the sum of this isn't going to change. The Electronic Communications Act also provides for the obligation for surveillance and security authorities to reimburse these costs. But since now, with the new law, additional subjects will be added here, the Financial Inspectorate, the Environmental Inspectorate, it is, indeed, theoretically possible that in practice these inspectorates will refuse to compensate the telecommunications company for these costs. The representatives of both ministries of power promised to analyze this issue and keep it under control. Should problems arise in practice, it may be necessary to amend the provisions implementing the law. But it is clear that the Ministry's funds for surveillance activities are planned in the same volume as before. In fact, we expect that the scope of surveillance activities should be reduced, as the circle of crimes covered by it is narrowed down. I am pleased to note that all serious decisions were taken by consensus. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided that the second reading should be completed and, when the second reading is completed, the draft could be sent to the third reading on 6 June and then adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U144	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U145	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! Today, the principle of the Surveillance Act applies that eavesdropping of a message is possible even within 24 hours without the permission of the court. Nearly a year ago, the Social Democrats submitted a draft amendment to the law aimed at bringing the Code of Surveillance and Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution. It was then rejected by the majority of the coalition in this hall. Is this principle taken into account in today's draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U146	I do not remember discussing this issue in the Commission. But the draft is very detailed about all the actions that have to do with deadlines. It would take a lot of time for me to start looking up these paragraphs one at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U147	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am sad to note that the interest in this bill is very small in the Chamber, even though it is extremely large in the public domain. But you touched sensitive personal data collected through surveillance. According to my information, before 2004, when the new Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted, there were no such problems that the information collected through the surveillance procedure spread to the public. According to the information I've received in communication, the point is that both the prosecutors and the judges are demanding that all the trace protocol information be put in the file, not just what is necessary to prove it. Should we not be discussing the fact that perhaps it is a mere provision in the law that the information relating to the object of the evidence should be included in the file?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U149	I'm sure we could discuss this more. For now, the amendment to the law states that sensitive personal data will be covered. But at the same time, I don't remember if you, a good colleague, were at the hearing when we discussed this subject in depth, we had this discussion that maybe not at all put in this data, but the objection from practitioners was that the defence party still wants to see a complete protocol and know, for example, the full text of a phone call, not just the part that concerns the criminal case. It's like violating the rights of defence. These are the reasons that sounded in the Commission's meeting. But basically, I personally agree with you completely, and I also think that it should be achieved that only the facts relating to a specific crime or criminal proceedings are recorded in the file and that the journalists would not be able to access other matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U150	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U151	Thank you. In this law, as you said, crimes that allow surveillance have been identified as a catalog. The change from the current situation is quite serious or, let's say, at least considerable. One type of crime, which is a major problem in Estonia, directly affects domestic violence. This is physical abuse, in which it is often the case that if mistreatment even at the beginning gives testimony, then he will reject them. In this case, physical abuse can continue and lead to a more serious crime. In this catalogue, this type of action has been omitted from the list of crimes allowing surveillance. Does this mean that domestic violence is not a priority, or that there are other reasons for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U152	There was a brief debate in the Commission on this issue. This certainly does not mean that the fight against domestic violence is not a priority. However, we have received information on this in the Commission, and it has also been said in this Chamber that the working group concerned is about to complete the whole revision of the Penal Code and that it is precisely the part concerning family violence in the Penal Code that will definitely be converted. These provisions are currently scattered and general. Not all that is involved in this violence, of course, but a certain part could certainly be subjected to surveillance. So I agree with you that if a man at home beats a woman, there are no witnesses, and this happens repeatedly, and it is only a word against a word in court, then the pursuit of this case would certainly help if the sufferer agrees. Presumably after the amendments to the Penal Code, which I hope we will have in the autumn season, or next year, first the Committee on Legal Affairs and then come to this Chamber, things will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U153	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U154	Thank you. Good performer! Since eavesdropping has been a very important issue in society in recent days, maybe you could specify what permits are required under the new bill to conduct eavesdropping?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U155	This can only be done with the permission of the judge, not with the permission of the prosecutor. With the permission of the prosecutor, some simpler surveillance activities are possible, which are less damaging to fundamental rights, but eavesdropping requires the permission of the court. And the deadline is one year. You can't do this any longer. When the deadline is over, it is necessary to apply for permission again if the procedure is still in progress. This was an important amendment that came in between the two readings of the draft. When the deadline is over, permission must be sought again and addressed to the court. This control should be much better now, plus, of course, information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U156	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U157	Thank you. Good waitress! Did you also discuss in the Commission how evidence obtained through information procurement could be used in criminal proceedings? Right now, there's a clause that goes with the D.A.'s permission, but did you discuss making a catalog on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U158	We did not discuss the issue of direct information procurement in the Commission. This is another issue which today's draft does not concern. We didn't make any decisions about that. But it'll never come to a discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U159	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Before I open negotiations, I'll say a few words to a good guest on the balcony: I'm asking you to take that computer off the edge! If it crashes, an accident could happen. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U160	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be spending much of your time, it's an already long agenda. Just setting out the background to the first question put to my good colleague, Kalle Jents. More or less a year ago, the Social Democrats handed over a draft law amending the Penal Code right here at the top, aimed at bringing the Penal Code into line with the Constitution. In fact, the Code of Surveillance that has been in force for years has been in conflict with the Constitution, since it has given the investigative authorities the opportunity to listen to telephones within 24 hours, i.e. to violate the confidentiality of messages, without the permission of the court. About a year ago, this hall did not support this bill. The position of the Government of the Republic was that the Constitution can be interpreted in various ways and that it is not unambiguous. To be clear, today's 175 bill takes account of this principle, which we pointed out a year ago and which was considered unnecessary. This is a bill drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, and we have it completely in the bill we have been working on here in the Committee on Legal Affairs. This is something I wanted to draw my colleague Kalle Jents' attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U161	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Certain people have been talking quite long and thorough here today, but the big hall is not very interesting. I just want to say that I do not believe that everyone in Estonia is being eavesdropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U163	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 175 amendments to the draft. The first three are all received from the lead commission: the first, the second and the third. The fourth amendment has been received from Mr Jents and the position of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is from the lead committee. The sixth amendment is from Ms Jents and has been fully taken into account by the commission. The seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth amendments are from the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been received from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 12 has been received from Mr Jents, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 13 has been received from Mr Jents, the position of the commission is that it must be fully taken into account. Amendment 14 has also been received from Mr Jents, and the opinion of the commission has also been that it must be fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U164	We will move on to the eighth item, which is the second reading of the Law on the organisation of research and development initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on study grants and student loans and the draft Act amending the Law on the University Act 162. I ask Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the Committee on Culture, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U165	Ladies and gentlemen, The content of this draft is almost shorter than the title of the draft and concerns the contract of employment of the doctoral student, either by absolutisation or by making it more flexible. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 January. The first reading took place on 15 February and no proposals were received by the deadline of 1 March of the amendments. At the same time, the Commission worked very intensively on the draft. Meetings of the working group took place and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu gave its opinion. The Commission discussed this issue at four meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research. As a result of the discussions, the Committee on Culture decided to propose two amendments. According to the original text of the draft proposal, the terms of the contracts with doctoral candidates for junior research were specified, but the Commission took the view that the employment contracts of junior researchers, in the form they were intended and the draft for which the draft was drawn up, were not entirely legitimate. The entire part of the doctoral student's contract of employment was decided to make it much more flexible, while maintaining the student's right to both salary and education allowance. Thus, in essence, the Commission decided to double the possibilities for doctoral students to receive public support for research. The Commission also took the view that learning in itself is not a relationship of subordination. The second amendment was quite unanimous: it was recognised that a technical amendment to the declarative wording of the draft was not necessary and one empty sentence was taken away. All the more detailed information on this discussion can be found in three pages in the second reading explanatory memorandum. But if anyone wants to ask any more specific questions, of course I am willing to answer them thoroughly. The Commission decided to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to submit a draft to the third reading by 6 June with a proposal to adopt the draft as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U166	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We are going to examine the amendments to the draft 162. Two amendments have been received by the commission: the first, the second. With this, we have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U167	We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which bears the order number 9, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Natural Gas and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kalle Palling, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! The first reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act 166 was held in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. March 21st. Let me briefly outline the amendments to the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 12 April, an amendment consisting of four interlinked proposals was tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group of the Riigikogu. In writing, they addressed the Committee on Economic Affairs and submitted proposals to amend the draft by AS Eesti Gaas and the Competition Board. The National Audit Office also addressed the Committee on Economic Affairs with criticism of the draft. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for its meetings on 26 April and 10 May, where all amendments received by the commission were examined by the initiator, market participants and other interested parties, and the views of the initiator's representative on the proposed proposals were heard. The working group also formulated some proposals for considering the Commission itself, based on the views of the Competition Board, AS Eesti Gaas and the National Audit Office. The Economic Commission organised a broad-based discussion of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, which included Tiit Kullerkupp, Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Gaas, Raul Kotov, Chairman of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences Arvi Hamburg, Auditor General of the Performance Audit Department of the National Audit Office Tarmo Olgo, Deputy Chancellor of Economic Affairs and Communications kt Ando Leppiman, Head of Energy Market Department of the Energy Department Jako Reinaste and Chief Specialist Helja Kulderknup, Head of Energy and Water Service of the Competition Board Külli Haab, Chairman of the Management Board of AS Elering Taavi Veskimägi and Head of the direction of natural gas. The aim was to hear the views and explanations of all parties on the proposed legislative changes. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments received for the second reading in substance and in detail at its meetings on 14 and 28 May. All the amendments prepared by the working group were supported by the initiator of the draft, and the lead committee decided to take them fully into account. I will then present the decisions of the commission, the explanations and the views of the initiator of the draft on the amendments received for the second reading. Points have been referred to in the list of amendments which, together with the amended version of the draft and the explanatory memorandum, have been handed over to the Riigikogu plenary for the second reading of the draft on 30 May. Amendment 1 deletes the amendment to the general part of the Code of Economic Activities in the text of the draft and consequently amends the title of the draft. Amendment 2 was tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group with the aim of supplementing the draft with the independent gas transmission system operator (ITO) model. The initiator did not support this proposal. The explanation was that all models were considered in the drafting process, but it was concluded that none of the models other than ownership unbundling would ensure effective competition and that in the case of Estonia, the most proportionate model for the actual functioning of the system operator from the point of view of the development of the gas market was the fully owned transmission system operator. On 25 May, the European Commissioner for Energy, Günther Oettinger, sent a letter to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts. In the case of the ISO model, the existing situation will continue in substance. As a criticism of the ISO model, the current legal and functional unbundling requirements have not triggered competition in the gas market and have not created the necessary framework for further development of the gas market. AS EG Võrguteenus as a system operator was expected to take greater initiative and cooperation in the development of the market, but EG Võrguteenus has focused on protecting its status quo. AS Eesti Gaas is in favour of the ITO model, but MKM does not consider the implementation of the ITO model to be fit for purpose in Estonia, as it would be extremely difficult to ensure compliance with the requirements of the ITO model for a small country. It would be difficult, if not impossible, for Estonia to implement a programme of compliance to avoid discriminatory behaviour of workers, also because of limited human resources in the long term, it is difficult to find staff who meet the requirements imposed on those responsible for management in the ITO model. In the case of the ITO model, the supervision of the independence requirements of a system operator belonging to a group of companies with a seller also requires an increase in the capacity of the Competition Authority. In addition, the Committee on Economic Affairs examined a number of other analyses and positions before deciding on the amendment. Among others were the views of AS Eesti Gaas, Competition Board and analyses of PricewaterhouseCoopers and LAWIN and the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy. Amendment 3 complements the end of § 1 (2) of the Natural Gas Act with a new definition of the transmission network. The objective is to help distinguish the transmission system from the distribution system in order to ensure the disposal of the transmission system necessary for the operation of the transmission system. Amendment 4 was formulated in the light of the proposal submitted by AS Eesti Gaas. The network operator shall be accompanied by an obligation to publish on its website, among other quality indicators, the upper calorific value other than the lower calorific value. Amendments 5 and 6 are somewhat interlinked. While the principles of the Competition Authority's price regulation have so far been established by a ministerial regulation, the general principles of price regulation are now laid down at the level of the law. Amendment 7 complements the draft with a new point 44 and provides for the obligation for a person wishing to acquire a transmission network to request an assessment of his/her compliance with national internal security within the framework of ex ante controls. The pre-checker shall be the Ministry of the Interior, where a reasoned decision must be taken within 90 days of the submission of the application or of receipt of supporting documents or information. The transfer of the transmission network is subject to such ex ante controls and to the recognition of a person as fit for the purposes of national internal security. Amendment 8 is of a specific nature. Amendment 9 introduces an obligation for the Competition Authority to consult not only the organisations representing gas companies but also the Consumer Protection Board when developing methodologies. Amendment 10 aims to specify the persons to whom the Competition Authority may give an injunction or impose a penalty for the termination of a breach of the requirements for the provision of money in the event of non-compliance with the requirements for the management of the company providing the gas transmission service. The provision on the enforcement of coercive money was also clarified. Amendment 11 deletes subsection 54 of the draft, which provided for the possibility for the Competition Authority to initiate the expropriation of transmission networks if the transmission system owner does not meet the requirements of subsection 15 (1) of this Act for the system operator. Thus, one point has been removed from the law, to which the National Audit Office has referred most critically. Amendments 12 and 13 relate to the removal of the so-called interim phase from the draft. The original text of the draft law provided for an obligation that, as of 1 January 2013, the gas transmission service could be provided by an undertaking with a transmission network, but the amendment deleted it. Therefore, the authorisation for the provision of transmission services granted before the entry into force of this Act may be valid until 1 January 2015, i.e. the date of expiry of the liberalisation of the gas market. At the same time, Amendment 13 imposes on the system operator the obligation to provide the Competition Authority with a timetable setting out all the measures that the system operator intends to do in order to bring its activities into line with the requirements laid down by law. In view of the fact that the obligation to undergo prior checking is imposed on a person wishing to acquire a transmission network, § 48 (3) of the Natural Gas Act contained in subsection 57 of § 1 of the draft is amended, which states that the positive result of the prior checking is a prerequisite for the acquisition of the transmission network, which means that the transmission network may be transferred as a whole to an undertaking recognised as eligible for prior checking. Is that a watch for me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U169	For you, too, so that your voice can be heard more clearly here and the thought reaches everyone. There's too much noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U170	Expropriation as it was in the original text of the draft has been withdrawn. I have already pointed out that, according to our understanding, we will never have to go to expropriation. However, as one measure, the current draft contains a maximum of EUR 1.2 million per year. During the negotiations with Eesti Gaas, which took place between the initiator of the draft and Eesti Gaas, a very clear understanding was reached that the existence of an expropriation clause in this draft law makes it difficult to find a buyer for the gas network. This is one very obvious response that we reached in the working group of the Economic Commission on the proposal of the initiator of the draft proposal, and later the Committee on Economic Affairs also voted in favour of the Estonian state's interest in reaching, by 1 January 2015, a situation where we actually have a core gas network separated from production and we can move forward with the development of the gas market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U171	Got it! I'll continue then, I have quite a few left to say. Amendment 14 clarifies the entry into force clause. Language changes have also been made to the text on the basis of the comments made by Parliament's language editor. Now it's procedural decisions. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 30 May 2007 a proposal for a second reading to be completed. Eight members of the Commission were in favour, two against, no abstentions. If the second reading of the draft 166 is completed, then the proposal to refer the draft law amending the natural gas law to the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 6 June and to put the draft to the final vote on the proposal to adopt it as a law. This was not discussed in the Commission, but I think it is necessary to refer once again to the aforementioned letter from the European Commissioner for Energy, Günther Oettinger, to Minister Juhan Parts, where he expressed his support for our plans to liberalise the gas market. The European Commission very much supports our initiative to get rid of the status of an energy island, and it fully supports our decision to choose a full unbundling path. Although the directive leaves us with three different options, Estonia has decided to choose the path of full ownership unbundling. The European Commission strongly supports this. This letter also publishes support for the Estonian state and readiness to help negotiate with the shareholders of Eesti Gaas. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U172	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You've been reporting all kinds of supporting letters here, a little less talkin' about the opposites. Here is a rather new letter dated 25 May, a letter from the Director-General of Ruhrgas International, in which he has addressed the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Head of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy. At the end of his letter, he says: "We add that we reserve the opportunity to defend our rights. ' Do you think this nationalisation will succeed in any way without long - term trials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U174	Thank you for your question. During the procedure for this draft, we have listened to all the parties involved, held a number of meetings and taken into account all relevant correspondence, trying to maximise all expectations. In addition, I personally met with Ando Leppiman, the Acting Deputy Secretary of Energy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as well as the representative of Eesti Gaas, to discuss these same problems. On Monday, 28 May, at the meeting of the Commission, we made some other amendments, which are actually yet another reception for Eesti Gaas, so that the company can get the maximum price for its assets as expected, as our laws allow. The role of expropriation and nationalisation, to which you referred, has been removed from this bill at all, and I believe that the Competition Authority, in cooperation with the representatives of Eesti Gaas himself, who must be most interested in it, will reach such an agreement that the shareholders of Eesti Gaas will receive a fair price for their assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U175	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U176	Thank you. I will not speculate on this price. In general, I believe that obviously we are doing the right thing, but I am not convinced that we are doing it in the best possible way. This led to my questions to the Chancellor of Justice, and his unambiguous and clear response was that the Riigikogu should be able to be sure that the possible interference with the Constitution resulting from the adoption of this law would not be strong and would not cause problems. Is the Committee on Economic Affairs certain that this is the way that we do not cause problems? If you look at the letters we received, I can't believe it. Why does the Committee on Economic Affairs think that we are really doing the right thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U177	I do not understand what kind of letter you refer to at the moment, but, as I mentioned in the presentation of the committee's debate, the provision of expropriation, which has received the most criticism from the National Audit Office so far, has been excluded from the draft. I also said that on Monday we changed the competence of the Competition Authority so that they could assess the value of the assets of Eesti Gaas and, on this basis, Eesti Gaas, as a seller, could ask for a fair remuneration for their assets. At the moment, I am convinced that we have done everything we can to ensure that there is no constitutional constraint.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U178	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U179	Dear waitress, Do you see any legislative option to prevent such a thing from being put on the market when these separable pipelines are put on the market, then they will be acquired by a company that will later also establish a liquid gas terminal and a new monopoly on the gas market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U180	Thank you for your question. I think there are two things that need to be distinguished here. The fact that we are currently dealing with the ownership unbundling of the gas network, which is also a prerequisite for real competition on the gas market, does not mean that we are deciding on the construction of the LNG terminal with this bill. The LNG terminal is one possible supply chain and I do not consider the creation of the monopoly that you have referred to to to be real. This is particularly because the LNG terminal is merely a means of gasification of liquefied gas. In this respect, who will operate this LNG terminal, one is the one who will build the LNG terminal, while the other is the one who will operate the terminal, the Competition Authority is believed to have a very clear understanding of how it will ever operate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U181	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You have emphasised twice in this reply that the expropriation clause was removed from this draft. The committee meeting was, yeah, that's what we're talking about. This was taken out because there is a law on expropriation in the Republic of Estonia. And it was also said that if it were needed, a valid law would be used. So, in fact, expropriation has not been removed from the agenda, only from the draft. It's like getting a little shattered in the eye. That is my question: if there is no expropriation for a certain period of time, will there still be expropriation based on the current law on expropriation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U183	The expropriation provision, as it was previously in the draft, has been withdrawn. I've said it three times here. In answer to your last question, I say once again: the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications which initiated the draft has met several times with representatives of Eesti Gaas and I have also met with Mario Nullmeier, the official representative of the shareholders of Eesti Gaas, who has clearly confirmed that their only interest is to obtain a fair price for their assets. They have no other intention. What Raul Kotov, a member of the board of Eesti Gaas, deals with is something other than the policy that shareholders have agreed on. Eesti Gaas is a business company and they are interested in obtaining a fair remuneration for their assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U184	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U185	Thank you. Dear waitress, Elering's leader, Mr Veskimägi, made an interesting statement today that the debate that is taking place here will hurt him very deeply. I didn't understand that a little bit. Can you tell us how the current parliamentary debate will offend Elering's leader? What are his interests in this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U186	Yes, I have also been in close contact with the leader of Elering, Taavi Veskimägi, during the procedure for this draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has specifically committed Elering, as a state-owned core network company, to developing gas competence and Elering has been one of the partners with whom we have conducted this draft law procedure. You probably referred to today's blog post in Taavi Veskimäe, where he stated that he was disturbed by this debate in the form it is currently taking. It is argued that if we go the way we are going, which is what the initiator of the draft and the Committee on Economic Affairs thinks is right, nothing will change in reality. I assume that Taavi Veskimägi is very disturbed by the decision of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences or by a letter to the Economic Commission, where Arvi Hamburg clearly claims that if we do not get along well with Gazprom and representatives of the Russian Federation, we will have serious difficulties in accessing gas and also accessing the Inckalns gas storage facility in the Republic of Latvia. I think these are the things that bother Tavi Veskimägi, and they bother me personally too. Those members of the Committee on Economic Affairs and other committees who attended the enlarged session of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which took place during the procedure for this draft, know that I personally asked on several occasions the representative of the Energy Council of our esteemed Academy of Sciences what he meant by the statement I referred to earlier. The same gentleman sneaked aside from this reply three times and on the third occasion Raul Kotov, member of the board of Eesti Gaas, who was probably embarrassed that Arvi Hamburg, who is also an employee of Eesti Gaas, allowed such statements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U187	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U188	Dear waitress, I am interested in what this bill is currently trying to do differently than the Republic of Latvia, which, in an attempt to segregate the gas network in a similar situation, was in a court of law and had to pay large sums of money. What is the difference between Estonia's approach and Latvia's?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U189	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U190	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In defending the bill, you have mentioned a number of meetings and you have also very boldly commented on a number of statements. How do you comment on the opinion of the Institute for External Studies that Estonia has no security risk due to gas supply and the draft does not increase energy security in this sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U192	It must be clear to all of us in this Chamber that nothing will change with the purely draft effect, nor will our security of gas supply improve. But this bill creates very clear assumptions that we can move forward in a certain direction in the future. Already several years ago, I'm setting up a separate company EG Võrguteenus in the Eesti Gaas Group, which was to start creating a gas market in Estonia. Eight years ago, a protocol of the joint intentions of the Estonian Gaas and Finnish company Gasum was drawn up for the creation of the Balticconnector gas pipeline between Estonia and Finland. Unfortunately, nothing has changed for today. The initiator of the draft act, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Competition Authority and many others are currently not convinced that anything could change if the situation persists. Consequently, I will reply: of course, Mr Randver, the draft alone will not improve anything, but if this law is adopted, it will create the preconditions for a genuine gas market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U193	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U194	Less than eight hours ago, we received a very brutal letter, signature: Kullerkup, Kotov. Fact 2: Gazpromi Eesti Gaas' interests are represented by attorney Ginter. Fact 3: Ginter is Soraise's attorney. Soraise's lawyer is also Jõks. The trap started to tell you what. The press has tried to compromise even you and your report. I think it's a coincidence. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U195	Good questioner, this does not directly concern the Commission's debate, but I will say that there are different kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U196	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U197	Dear waitress, Wise politics must undoubtedly anticipate all possibilities, including unpleasant ones, and have a plan for them B. If we face serious difficulties in accessing gas, as Mr Hamburg predicted, who is undoubtedly a competent person in this area, then who is responsible? And what is Plan B, given that gas is still based on a very large part of our national economy and society?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U198	As I have repeatedly said, no one has referred to such possible scenarios at the meeting of the initiator of the draft with the representatives of Eesti Gaas or at my meeting and at the meeting of Ando Leppiman with the representatives of the shareholders of Eesti Gaas. If we take today, the Eesti Gaas security of supply index is 0.6 already, which means that in cold weather the gas will no longer reach Tallinn. This is the reality now, and if the situation gets worse, it could have some pretty bad consequences. What have we done so far? Estonia has already taken a very clear path towards reducing the share of gas since 2009. In many cities, smaller and larger, including Tallinn, boiler houses using biomass have been built to replace boiler houses using gas as fuel. This is one step that has been taken to reduce the share of gas. We know what biomass costs and how much consumers have to pay for it. However, due to developments in the global gas market, the price of gas has become much more competitive and it would be foolish for us in Estonia to rule out gas as one of the primary sources of energy. In this sense, I think we are on the right track. If we read the development plan for Estonia's energy economy, it is also a priority to reduce dependence on one energy source.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U199	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! The wisdom of the Estonian people says that a fool learns only from his mistakes, if he learns at all, is a wise one who learns from the mistakes and history of others. In your answer to Kadri Samson's question, you said a lot, which is good, but you did not say whether anything has been learned from Latvia's experience and more detailed risk assessments have been carried out to carry out this plan. Am I right to understand that such a risk analysis and, in particular, an analysis of Latvia's experience has not been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U201	I would like to come to the beginning of your question: I absolutely agree with you that learning from the experiences of others should be learned. We, too, who have an energy council at the academy of sciences of this level, who puts such claims in their official papers as I referred to earlier, must learn from the experiences of others. The 2009 Ukrainian gas dispute is a very clear experience, leaving both Ukrainians and a very large part of Europe without gas. The negotiations between the country of Belarus and Gazprom on the price of gas at the end of last year were very clearly set ultimatum for Belarus that if you give half of the pipe control to Gazprom, the gas price will be half as cheap for you. They did it. At present, exactly the same negotiations are taking place with the Ukrainian gas company. Here's a place where you can really learn from other people's experiences. As far as Latvia's experience is concerned, indeed, we have not analysed Latvia's experience separately in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This has been done in various other analyses that I have referred to, including the Pöyry report mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U202	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U203	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. You replied to Rein Randver that the gas supply will not change directly from this bill, but this law will open up certain development scenarios and give impetus to the future. Elering is in the same way a gas competence centre designated by the state in Estonia, which also represents Estonia abroad in this area. At the same time, it is one of the market participants who wishes to build a LNG terminal for Muuga. If you consider such a development scenario likely that after the adoption of this draft, Elering will become the owner of these pipes, then she will build a LNG terminal for Muuga in cooperation with another company, and in essence we will have a monopoly again, now in Mr. Veskimäe's wise hands?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U204	Whether Elering can become the owner of gas pipelines depends on offering Eesti Gaas to buy a gas network. If he sees that Elering could be one of the gas grid buyers, that's the deal that depends on it. With this bill, we do not in any way stipulate that Elering must be the owner of the network. As regards the LNG terminal, yes, as far as I know, and other members of the Economic Commission Elering Muugale plans the LNG terminal. At the same time, there is a LNG terminal that can supply the entire region. We had a meeting with a delegation from the European Commission a few weeks ago to find out which country, whether Lithuania, Latvia or Estonia, could have a regional terminal. For our part, we have proposed to them that Finland should actually be involved in the region, as Finland's consumption is as high as that of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Yeah, that's what Elering does. However, Elering has repeatedly claimed, according to Taavi Veskimäe, that operating the terminal is not in their interest. One part of the terminal is all of this iron itself, systems that turn liquefied gas into ordinary gas, and the other part is liquefied gas, which is known to have a world market price. And no one will cut through the supply channels of Gazprom starting in Russia, one of which comes from Narva, one from Värska and one from Latvia. If they are able to compete with LNG, there is no way that a monopoly can arise. I would like to emphasise once again that this is information out of the scope of the draft. But since I wanted to answer your questions, on the basis of my knowledge, I did so to be clear. The fact that Elering is building a LNG terminal, and the fact that Elering is interested in acquiring gas pipes, is not a secret. This has not been denied by Mr Veskimägi, nor has it been denied at any meeting in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This is purely the decision of the shareholders of Eesti Gaas, to whom the company sells these pipes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U205	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I listened to this in the debate's office, and in parallel I studied information about gas networks, including those from Ukraine and Estonia. You know, when someone starts comparing Ukraine and Estonia's gas network, it's a pure mania grandiosa, because when you talk about the cubic meters and the possibilities involved, the difference is 1,200-130-fold. But that's it. However, I was interested in this debate because it was noted that you have not analysed the Latvian precedent and that you do not assume any responsibility. At the same time, we are dealing with a law that does not affect energy security, as your sentence said: 'Nothing is actually happening under this law. " What are we still doing? So what do we do when we sum up all these quotes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U207	All these statements are your interpretation of the debate that is going on in this Chamber today. I have essentially answered all these questions before. We are dealing with the liberalisation of the gas network, which creates real bases for competitive gas price formation and the development of the gas market. All that you have said, these examples of Ukraine, of course, I am aware that Estonia's pipeline is a distribution network compared to Ukraine's. Of course! But I am personally concerned that the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences in the Republic of Estonia is still very clearly threatening both the Economic Commission and the entire Estonian people that if we do not want to get along well with the Russian Federation and Gazprom and do as they like, we will have difficulties. Do you, Mr Stalnukhin, think that such claims are suitable for the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U208	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U209	Mailis, Kadri, Aadu, Mikhail! It's not as complicated as you think it is. In less than an hour, I will make clear to you the Latvian problem. The example of Latvia is not a criminal in any part of the country. Lithuania is the right example. Look at Lithuania, we're going to Lithuania. It's okay. But now the question. Gas disruptions can only be of a political nature, and technical interruptions have never been on Gazprom's side. I want to ask you what is the risk of the faucet being physically turned off. It wasn't even done at Bronze Night. By the way, unlike Hamburg, I am convinced that Gazprom will perform its pressure and volume tasks. Hamburg says the devil knows Gazpromi can't very believe, etc. I, by the way, believe in them. Is there a risk of interruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U210	Personally, I believe in our report on security of gas supply, which confirms that gas supply disruptions can be of a technical nature. What is going on in Mr Hamburg's head, I do not really know how to comment and do not consider it necessary anymore. I've done it many times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U211	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U212	Thank you, dear waitress. A letter from the Director-General of Ruhrgas came today in connection with this draft, in which it is quite clear at the end that they are prepared to stand up for their rights in court as well. If this law is now passed and Ruhrgas goes to court for his rights and the verdict is such that Estonia will have to bear the costs, then who will take responsibility for it? The law has a relatively similar face as it came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so political responsibility is as if the Minister of Economic Affairs. Or have coalition ambassadors changed the law so much in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the Chair of the Economic Commission must be responsible for this and also those members of the Riigikogu who vote in favour? Who will bear the responsibility if this threat materialises?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U213	I must owe you this legal answer because it does not concern the direct procedure for a particular draft. But I believe that the head of Ruhrgas actually refers to negotiations with the Competition Authority on the valuation of its assets and the productivity of the promised capital, which have been referred to by representatives of the shareholders of Eesti Gaas. They wished the law to include as precise criteria as possible from a metre, a kilometre, how the value of the property of Eesti Gaas is valued. But I will come back to this once again, this re-evaluation of assets is not carried out by the Economic Affairs Committee or the Riigikogu, but by the Competition Board, rather it is overseeing the re-evaluation of assets, and the state cannot prescribe very strict instructions to the Competition Authority as an independent competence centre. We would not want the Competition Authority, which stands for fair competition, to be restrained by very specific conditions. And that is, I believe, the greatest fear that the shareholders of Eesti Gaas feel and to which the director of Ruhrgas refers in his letter. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on Monday, we changed the law so that the Competition Board could be even more flexible in determining the fair price for the property of Eesti Gaas. Since the initiator of the draft and the Economic Commission want the gas network to be allocated by 1 January 2015, we have received as much as possible from Eesti Gaas when processing the draft law. We have taken out the expropriation provision, which would have been like an axe above our heads, so that no buyer would come to us. We have also taken out one of the interim periods that the initiator of the draft wanted the property to be transferred to another company within their group by then. I really believe that the quick final procedure of the draft and the creation of clarity with it will give both the owners of Eesti Gaas and potential owners of the network a very clear signal of what will be the future of the Estonian gas policy, how we will see it, how the Estonian state will see it. Accordingly, purchasing and selling decisions are also taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U214	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U215	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! A great deal has been said here today about the threat of Gazprom and Russia. I'm asking you, how is that possible if Gazprom owns only 37% of all the shares in this company? 63% control that 37%. The second question is: is there any way to prevent Eesti Gaas from letting any of these pipes sell gas today? It should be regulated by law, they're obliged to shoot it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U216	I would answer this last question by thanking God that we are not in a situation where Eesti Gaas would stop someone from accessing its network. Your first question concerned Gazprom and his 37%. Personally, I have referred here to the same threatening letter from the Energy Council that arrived in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have also answered Mr Ossinovski's question as to why Taavi Veskimägi is embarrassed about such a debate. We have often heard the argument that it would actually be enough for us to get along very well with the representatives of Gazprom and the Russian Federation on this issue and it is better that we do not change anything. It is the responsibility of each Member State to implement the third energy package as it considers best. Estonia has chosen a path that is supported very clearly by the European Commission. Since 2004, full ownership unbundling of the gas network has already been a priority in all Estonian energy economic development documents. However, as regards this 37% or minority majority, if you look at the specific features of the current system, the Estonian Gaas really owns 37% of Gazprom, but all gas comes from Gazprom. I think that is a very important argument. This is one supply chain, one source of supply. And secondly, technically, it looks like all summer, when gas consumption is low, the gas is pumped into the Latvian Incukalns gas storage facility. Our security of gas supply index is 0,6, which means that in the cold weather of winter, the gas from the Incukalns repository will no longer reach our capital city. That's the risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U217	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! First of all, I would like to assure the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs that what I am saying now does not concern the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have to say this because our colleague here represents not himself, but the Committee on Economic Affairs. I will now answer your question as to whether I think it is right that there are people in Estonia who think differently in some respects than you think it is right. Look, I'm a Democrat. I think that every person must have the right to think. I do not think it is worth seeing such an artificial threat that we need to speculate on. I understand that in punk age, people sometimes think idealistically that all people can make you think in one direction. Believe me, when you get a little older, you'll realize that people are different. Unfortunately, my time is up, so I never got to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U219	Your time is really up. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U220	That's the question. A few months before Estonia entered the European Union, the Riigikogu dealt vividly with one topic. The Government of the Republic, as the initiator of the draft, had a very noble purpose, as is the case with the draft. At that time, the aim was for no one to be able to make a profit from it so that we would enter the European Union. The content of the bill for noble purposes was easier than the subject, the quality was terrible. We argued here, the law was passed at the will of the majority, and the final result was that we paid a sugar fine of 700 to 800 million kroons. My question on this bill is the same. As a member of the Riigikogu, I would like to be convinced that if we adopt this law, which has also been made for a noble purpose, we will not have to bear any financial obligations after that, which are linked to the fact that we are not sure that all of this is correct. Is the Committee on Economic Affairs sure that this is the case until the end that we do not have to bear any damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U221	Honourable questioner! Indeed, the Committee on Economic Affairs has worked in the conviction that we will adopt a law that will enable Eesti Gaas to obtain a fair price for its assets. Everything is going without undue pressure from the company, and there has been a sufficiently long deadline for the sales process to be carried out so that the opportunities you referred to can really be avoided. I confirm once again: when we met with the representative of the shareholders of Eesti Gaas, we explained that the fact that we have chosen the path of ownership unbundling is one of the three options given in the directive and is a political decision. The political decision on energy security would have been exactly the same if we had chosen another model. The second topic that had to be clarified was the nature of the Estonian legal space, namely the competence of our Competition Authority to create opportunities for different network operators. The competition authority's principle is to treat all operators in the same way, whether they are gas system operators, water system operators, electricity system operators, anyone. We cannot treat gas operators in any other way so that they cannot be given any fair compensation for ownership unbundling. Fair compensation, however, can be the price at which the assets in question are accounted for on the company's balance sheet. If the company has had problems in coordinating the recording and revaluation of these assets with the Competition Authority, I believe that they themselves have not worked hard enough to coordinate the price. I received further confirmation from the meeting of the Economic Commission, where representatives of Eesti Gaas participated. With this draft, we are bringing the principles of price regulation of the network service into the law and we have also signaled this through the initiator of the draft, and I personally told the representative of the shareholders of Eesti Gaas that you should be active in the valuation of your assets and on this basis in determining the fair price. At least on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I dare confirm that we have done our utmost to ensure that the process of ownership unbundling is smooth and not too burdensome for the Estonian consumer, in other words that the gas network is not overestimated in such a way that the restoration value is taken as a basis. Yes, it was one of the wishes of Eesti Gaas that the sale price should be the restoration value of the network, but all gas consumers have already paid off this network in the form of network charges. Does anyone in this hall think that due to the change of the owner of the network, we should repay a pipe that connects a settlement that will bring gas from Värska to Tallinn? I don't think so. That is why we introduced the principles of price regulation into the law and softened them so that the Competition Authority could assess the value of the assets more flexibly by the date when the ownership of the gas network takes place. I would remind you that the last revaluation of Eesti Gaas' assets took place in 2004, after which they have not revalued their assets. I agree and the whole Committee on Economic Affairs agrees that, of course, the price set during the 2004 revaluation cannot be the basis. The basis can be a re-evaluation for 2012, 2013 or even for me in 2014. Neither the initiator of the draft nor its practitioners want to squeeze anything out of Eesti Gaas and restrict them in any way. Indeed, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, once again, we have done everything we can to ensure that the ownership of the gas network goes smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U222	Javier in clothing, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U223	Thank you. My original wish was to ask my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, to call the Bureau to order. But since he's left the room, I'm going to ask a procedural question. Namely, is it correct if Mr Stalnukhin or another member of the Riigikogu turns to his colleague derogatoryly, referring to his age, gender, race, mother tongue or any other characteristic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U224	Since the question was put to me, I will say that I do not think it is very respectful. At the same time, I also think that we are not going to have a discussion on this matter between several members of the Riigikogu by commuting back and forth here. If you want, you can discuss it somewhere else. If Mikhail Stalnukhin has a question about the procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U225	It's a procedural question. Since my name was mentioned, I have the right to answer and ask a question for my part. If, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I ask a question to the rapporteur, which consists of four statements taken from his answers, and I ask them to comment, will it be in line with our practices, if he, instead of answering, starts to charge me indirectly with political accusations, quite the usual ones in our time? That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U226	I did not understand the question exactly, and since I have not been able to read the verbatim report, I certainly cannot now assess who was born in this Chamber some time ago. Please, let's go! Rannar Vasiliev, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U227	Thank you. My question, good waitress, is for you. Could the fact that the Competition Authority, which is now drawing a price tag for gas routes, and one of the most serious potential buyers named Elering are both located within the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications make this process difficult?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U228	Personally, I think the answer is no. However, I have also said in the past that it would be reasonable to consider in the future the administrative removal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Competition Authority. I agree with that. However, I do not think that this is a concern in this case. So far, no problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U229	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U230	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My question stems from the so-called explanatory part of Mr Gräzin's question. In fact, he argued that Estonia was based on Lithuanian tea in this problem-solving solution. We are not doing the Latvian way, we are doing the Lithuanian way. My question is: has the Commission analysed the variant of the Lithuanian gas company Lietuvos dujos, how they have dealt with the situation? In short, are you confirming what Igor Gräzin said that Estonia is choosing Lithuania's way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U231	I cannot comment specifically on what Igor Gräzin meant with his question and speech. But we have not considered the Latvian case or the Lithuanian case in the Commission, so to speak, but we have based on a wide range of analyses and studies. The largest and most extensive of these is the so-called Pöyry report, which has been produced for Elering. This report, in turn, has certainly analysed these cases as well. However, we did not analyse the specific example of any country in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U232	Thank you. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U233	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I have some questions to educate myself. We all know that, apart from gas, the provision of heat, electricity and water can also be considered a vital service. Do you not think that if we talk about Estonia's infrastructure in terms of security and security of supply, the state would best be able to guarantee it if it were the owner? However, if this is not the case and the aim is simply to separate production and infrastructure in the sense of owners in the case of vital services, is it planned to do the same in other areas of heat production, electricity and water? Is it planned to sell Elering's distribution network in the same way, for example, and to separate the Tallinn Heating Networks in Tallinn, or is that not the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U234	Thank you for your question. I am not sure that I know exactly what Latvia did. That is why I am not going to speculate here on what they did right or what they did wrong. However, as far as what we are doing is concerned, this solution has been repeatedly referred to by the Estonian Competition Authority and has been mentioned since 2004 in our energy and heat economy development plans, which I cannot read about here. This is very clear in the Pöyry report commissioned by Elering. As I have already pointed out, very clear support for the path chosen by Estonia has been published by the European Commissioner for Energy, Günther Oettinger, in a letter dated 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have stressed on several occasions today that you are the lead judge and you have made this very clear to yourself. Therefore, you are certainly aware of the consequences of a rather similar activity being launched around gas in the Republic of Latvia. You will probably know that the Republic of Latvia, as a result of this activity, lost its seat in the arbitration court and had to pay very substantial sums to the gas company. Now the representatives of Eesti Gaas have said that if forced expropriation is imposed on them, they will definitely go to the arbitration court and very likely we will have to make the same payment. As a leading expert, will you be responsible for this later if this happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U236	There was a lot of confusion here now. But the objective of splitting such an integrated enterprise into pieces is, in fact, that each part of the company can carry out its own core business. The gas transmission system operator's business is the transportation of gas, not the revenue from the sale of gas. The current situation in Eesti Gaas is that the margin earned from gas transport is for the orphan and in fact the main business is still to earn the gas sales margin. The vision of the initiative and the Economic Commission is that the future operator of the gas transmission system will be the driving force behind all developments in the gas market. He'd be the one to negotiate with the various developers at the LNG terminal that you see, we have this kind of consumption, we have these potential sales volumes. He would also negotiate with the Finnish gas core network operator that we are finally doing this Balticconnector for eight years, we have talked, we have made phone calls and we have exchanged letters, but nothing has happened. Let's finish this now! In my opinion, one positive example of Estonia's history is the separation of Elering from Eesti Energia: Elering's main network, transmission lines, cross-border connections, and Eesti Energia's business activities. Both can deal with their basics and very important infrastructure is not part of the orphanage. The risk of cross-subsidisation is reduced. I believe it is even the most important thing that no longer engages in cross-subsidisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U237	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U238	Thank you. Good performer! I understand that the idea of this draft is the transposition of the European Union's natural gas directive, with which we are, of course, late. That deadline's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U239	It's an infringement procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U240	There's something ahead of us. I guess they're responsible for those who've crossed the deadline. There was a debate in the Commission that we are taking over these things provided for in the directive, but the other side is the separation of the gas network. In this draft, we would not deal with this and would limit ourselves to transposing the directive. With the separation of the gas grid, we'll come to the hall later. The debate is very lively in society, and it has also lasted for a very long time in this Chamber. We could go on with these things like this. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U241	There's been a signal for today. In fact, this signal has been signalled for over a year, since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications started developing this draft and negotiating with market participants a long time ago. Does it make sense to return now? Your question concerned the ownership unbundling of the gas network. I understand that there would be a debate in society about what model we are taking: whether we are going essentially this way, that we are still luring the Estonian Gaas market to develop, that you should finally do this Balticconnector, etc., or whether we are creating this Independent Transmission Operator or ITO model. In fact, we have made a decision: yes, we are going in the way of ownership unbundling, and it is also in the bill. You rightly mentioned that we are too late for this. Indeed, we are in the process of infringement due to the delay in transposing the directive. In short, I don't think it's necessary to stall any more. For more than a year now, there's been a signal that we're going this way. This is also supported by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U242	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U243	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu has also made its assessment of this draft. I'm sure you, as a leading man, have been familiar with that assessment. What conclusion did our Legal and Analytical Department come to? Why don't you tell the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U244	Thank you. The legal and analysis department of the Riigikogu did not consider the provision of expropriation, which was included in the original draft and which we have now withdrawn, because it has also been referred to by the National Audit Office. In the negotiations with the representatives of Eesti Gaas, the initiator of the bill no longer considered it a necessary measure. The initiator of the bill, or essentially the Estonian state, is interested in creating a real gas market. The aim is not to get the pipes at any cost and with any measures. We really want the ownership unbundling process to go smoothly. That is why we have taken the opinion of the Legal Department into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U245	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U246	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! A lot has already been asked, but I'm gonna take another chance and ask you about it. You mentioned that a few weeks ago, there was a rather conscious committee in the country who discussed the future of our gas economy. I believe you know how much this new terminal that we want to build and for which much of the money comes as support from the European Union. How much is our country to bear? And perhaps the most important thing: what budget line can the state take money from in order to build this terminal in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U247	I am not sure if I understood the final part of your question, but indeed the honourable delegation visited Estonia. He also visited Latvia, Lithuania and Finland. I believe that we have given them a very good impression, as we are already in the final phase of adopting a law that provides for full ownership unbundling, and we have a number of potential locations for the construction of the LNG terminal. This interest in Estonia therefore exists. So far, the direction in which our energy policy is moving is still open. While we have decided to build one new oil shale power plant to ensure our energy security, the option of the other plant remains untapped. As a member of the Estonian Energy Council, I dare confirm that if we have the certainty that the gas supply is guaranteed in Estonia, the gas power plant would also be very suitable for producing the electricity needed during peak load, as the construction of the circuit is three times cheaper than the construction of the oil shale power plant. These are the things that the European Commission delegation is monitoring. In addition, there is a directive on sulphur emissions from marine fuels, which is very likely to force ship owners and ship owners to transfer their ships from their current marine fuel to liquefied natural gas. In this light, Muuga's project would be very suitable, as Muuga Harbour, which belongs to the Port of Tallinn, is such that large ships can also bunker there. The Commission has conducted a comprehensive dissipation of all of this. We also considered the consumption of gas in households, which is quite small. It is mainly the municipalities of Tallinn's golden circle and, for example, Nõmme, where there are gas boilers in the homes. We also have gas-based district heating, which has been partly transferred to biomass. In several settlements, I believe, gas cogeneration is also being considered very seriously. I have already mentioned the production of electricity by gas, as well as marine fuels, and why not include road transport as well. The European Union has set very clear targets for us; we simply need to reduce CO2 emissions in road transport as well. For example, the city of Tartu has already introduced gas buses. If the price of gas were to develop in competitive conditions and the gas could compete with other fuels, I believe there are certainly prospects. I believe that Estonia had the impression that it was a very open country, where many ends are still open, which path we choose in our energy policy and fuel policy. But we are probably the most advanced in our development among all the countries under discussion as the location of the terminal. And another argument should be put on the table: we recommended to the Commission delegation that you also consider Finland in the region. Gas consumption in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is just as high as consumption in Finland and it would be extremely logical for this terminal to be located in the middle of the region. In my opinion, the southern coast of the Gulf of Finland, for example, would be ideal for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U248	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U249	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I've been following this round of questions and answers for a long time, first in the office and then in this room. I cannot wonder why you and the Central Party are still fighting against competition on the Estonian gas market and, in some ways, against the energy independence of Estonia, against the common energy policy of the European Union. Can you tell me why that is in the summary of questions and answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U250	I don't know how to be honest. We have tried to hold this debate as openly as possible in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Nor is it a bill that has been dealt with quickly. Everyone has had the opportunity to put forward their proposals. We organised a very wide-ranging open session of the Economic Commission, to which we invited all parties, and I have also met privately with the official representative of shareholders who actually speaks on behalf of all shareholders. I believe that we are on the right track, and perhaps also in this Chamber, the questioners simply wanted to find out more about what this particular bill would change and what the assumptions would create. Really, I thank everyone very much for this debate and for the opportunity to explain the subject better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U251	Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. No further questions for you. Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U253	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U254	The process of dealing with this draft has been kept under constant consideration by the Social Democrats. At the moment, it can be said that the government is doing the right thing by separating the gas network, but it is doing it wrong. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, it has been argued that as Estonia has not transposed the European Internal Market Directive on natural gas by 28 April due to the failure of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is extremely urgent to process the draft and the separation of the gas market must also be resolved. I agree that there are indeed points in the draft that need to be adopted at the latest in June this year, but that does not mean that the gas market must be separated by then. I would remind you that Article 49 of the Natural Gas Directive gives Estonia the possibility to exempt from the application of the provision on ownership unbundling of the directive as regards the ownership unbundling of networks and supply and production. The same has been confirmed by the Chancellor of Justice in his reply to my colleague Eiki Nestor on 25 May, where he says that due to the derogation mentioned in the directive, Estonia has not been given a time frame for the process of liberalising the gas market. By adopting the bill, the Riigikogu makes a decision that has a major impact on the future of Estonian energy and affects all parties in the gas market. The National Audit Office considers that the stated objectives of increasing energy security, security of supply and competition are undoubtedly important, but a lack of assessment of the impact of the draft does not make it possible to be convinced that the proposed amendment of the Natural Gas Act will help to achieve these objectives. The National Audit Office is of the opinion that the drafters have taken a superficial view of the analysis and mitigation of risks to the achievement of the objectives of the draft and have failed to assess, in substance, how energy security, security of supply and gas prices are affected by the draft. Estonian-based studies have not been carried out during the drafting of the bill. According to the Ministry's officials, the research wasn't done because it was all inside the government union program. It was based only on the European Commission's materials and examples, without assessing whether they are relevant in Estonia as well. Now possible billing costs for the taxpayer and the gas consumer. According to the explanatory memorandum, the change of ownership does not have a direct impact on gas prices. The Minister for Economic Affairs has said that the price increase will not exceed 0,2%. However, it can be assumed that the planned allocation will result in a higher increase in gas prices, due to the fact that the likely selling price of the transmission network is several times higher than what has been taken into account so far when fixing the network fee. While the Competition Authority has accepted the value of the transmission network at around EUR 25 million when the price of the gas transmission is fixed, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the sales price of the network can reach up to EUR 120 million. If the gas transmission price was fixed on the basis of EUR 120 million, network charges would increase 2.42 times, meaning that the final gas price would increase by around 3% to the consumer. The question arises as to what is the likely selling value of the transmission network, or fair price? At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday, I wanted an explanation from the representatives of the Ministry, but the answer was due. It would make sense that any negotiations would have been held before the law was passed. This has allegedly not been the case, and this could lead to many disputes in the future, and why not also cases. I would return to the opinion delivered by the Chancellor of Justice on 25 May 2012. Eesti Gaas must comply with the requirements of the Act, including most likely to sell the natural gas transmission network by 1 January 2015 at the latest. From that date, the Competition Authority will have the power to order the system operator to comply with the requirements laid down in § 291 of the Natural Gas Act and to impose on the system operator, in the event of failure to comply with the requirement under paragraph 2 of the same provision, a penalty of EUR 1,2 million in a calendar year, but no more than 10% of the turnover of the last audited financial year. At the beginning of 2011, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took the view that it was necessary to give AS Eesti Gaas a minimum of four years from the entry into force of the Act until 1 January 2015. It has now been one year since the publication of this position, so it is justified to postpone the deadline for the allocation of the transmission network by at least one year, i.e. to set the deadline of 1 January 2016. Now, most importantly, come back to the letter from the Chancellor of Justice last Friday. It is clear from the above and is also confirmed by the draft explanatory memorandum that the proposed ownership unbundling requirement is a major violation of the constitutional ownership of the current owner of the transmission network. Although the latter's extensive interference does not automatically constitute a violation of property rights, there is, however, an increased risk of a breach of constitutional property rights in the event of a severe interference. In order for constitutional property rights to be affected to be justified, they must have a legitimate purpose and be proportionate. The stronger the barrages of fundamental rights, the more weight must be on the grounds justifying it. In suming up the position of the Chancellor of Justice, it can be said that the Riigikogu must have full conviction that they are doing the right thing and that further analyses could be useful for this. Two members of Eesti Gaas have approached the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy last week, and Mr Kallo spoke about this earlier with his proposal to involve the Directorate-General in negotiations as an impartial party in order to find a solution that would be best for Estonia and the regional gas market. Ladies and gentlemen, We should not turn into a rubber stamp that hastens to correct the government's failure. We will leave in the points that will help us to comply with the Gas Directive, with the rest of it we can wait, take a time-out. In view of all the above, the Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes to interrupt the second reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U255	Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group supports the processing of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, primarily because it helps to create prerequisites for competition in the Estonian natural gas market. The Estonian natural gas market can now be considered to be open, but there is no real competition. The lack of real competition in the natural gas market has been repeatedly pointed out by both the Competition Authority and other institutions. This problem has also been addressed in the national development plan for the energy economy, which is currently in force and which preceded it. Since this situation has been going on for years, solutions need to be sought to make our economic environment in this sector more attractive and to contribute to competition. The introduction of a requirement for the ownership unbundling of the gas transmission network by law is an important step in this direction. Actual competition on the natural gas market leads to more favourable prices for consumers and improves security of supply. It should be noted that the prices of natural gas in today's world vary widely. The fall in prices on the gas market in the United States in the last few years has been particularly significant, thanks to which the price of natural gas is much cheaper there than in Europe. One reason has been the production of shale gas. The production of shale gas is also planned to take place in Poland, for example. Such developments give hope that current gas prices will not be set in stone. Creating competition in the gas market is a matter that is certainly worth thinking about. I therefore consider, as a representative of the IRL Group, that the potential victory for consumers from adopting this draft as a law outweighs the risks that have been highlighted in relation to the draft procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U257	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U258	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Of the people here, perhaps my colleague Nestor remembers how a fight broke out in this hall in 1999. The story was that Janno Reiljan spoke at first on the economic issue. After that, very, very young Meelis Atonen went to the remote control at the time and said something about old age and a professor who didn't understand anything. Then Janno Reiljan started screaming that if a student went to his exam with such views, he couldn't even get two. And then it went like this, Janno Reiljan was sitting by that window and Atonen was sitting around where Mr. Balling is now sitting. It sounded like you were stupid or something. Janno started passing through the lines to force his man's word. But since he has unfortunately very weak eyesight, some minus eight or minus twenty-eight, I don't know, very weak, he messed up the lines and thought that he was already there and standing next to Atonen, but actually he started trying to beat up Jüri Tammele, which is, of course, a dare in itself. Luckily, it's been the only incident I've seen here in seven or eight years. Toomas Sav and I were once asked in Ukraine how often you block the microphone. What does "block the microphone" mean? But you come out with the group and you don't let anyone else in. Then we confirmed that we didn't have such a thing. When the coalition and opposition sat across from us, and I asked who the three fine young men with heads were between them, what they were from the group, they said they were bodyguards. Who are they protecting here? The answer was that they would protect one side from the other side so that they would not fight. My colleague Kõiv asked why the war between the Soviets and the Central is about energy independence. I wrote it down right away, and I took the rest of it from the verbatim. I have to explain that no one is fighting. Personally, I asked my questions because I heard in my office that I had no intention of doing this, but I heard what the waitress said. Mr Randver asked, and the answer was this: 'That is clear. I believe that it is clear to all of us in this Chamber that nothing will change with the draft alone. " Everyone wonders what we will do if nothing changes. Kadri Simson asked. And the answer was, 'I'm not sure I know exactly what Latvia did. 'Well, it's a polite form of testimony that I don't know much about it. Reps and Allik asked about responsibility, and they didn't get an answer either. I asked you about that. And what did I get in response? Start: 'All these statements are your interpretation of the debate that is going on in this Chamber today. ' There is no interpretation; these are the words of the author; this is the authorship; a real royalty should be paid for it. And the end of the answer was this: 'I am personally concerned that the academy of sciences is still in the Republic of Estonia... ' That's where I got cramped, someone's worried about the fact that the Academy of Sciences is still in the Republic of Estonia?! But fortunately, the sentence went on and said: "... that in the Republic of Estonia today there is an energy council of the Academy of Sciences, which is very clearly threatening both the Economic Commission and the entire people. ' So, the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have all the people! More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U259	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U260	'... that if we do not want to get along well with the Russian Federation and Gazprom and do what they like, we will have difficulties. Do you, Mr Stalnukhin, think that such claims are suitable for the Republic of Estonia? ' What does it have to do with what I think of these claims, our debate today? Explain it to me! Explain this to me, those people who asked questions here, soccer and disparaging the Centre Party! Look, we're not just losing communication, we're losing democratic foundations. How could that be?! After all, we are all the same in this Chamber in the sense that all of us have been chosen by the people. When I ask the question, it is an equal question to anyone else. I insist that I have an answer. If you do not know the factual answer, say you do not know, or state in polite form that this was not discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Everyone understands well. What do you need it for? What is it: 'Do you, Mr. Stalnukhin, think that such claims... '? Why do I have to make an opinion here? Unlike you, I don't go to receptions at the Russian embassy, I haven't had a Russian visa for the last year, and I haven't been there for a very long time. At all, my activities have nothing to do with the Russian Federation. Why do I have to be clear about the position of the Russian Federation, Australia or, I don't know, the city of Timbuktu, for example? Colleagues, the economy must be dealt with by economic people economically. I keep comparing what's going on here and in my hometown. There has never been any construction, no new production or anything else depending on which party is an investor or someone else important. Why do you have to listen to these insults? Why does anyone always think it's very wise to turn the economy on politics like this? Make it clear to all of them indirectly that he's an enemy of the state, and then it's okay, then you're soft and hairy! I wonder if it makes any sense to give such a speech here at all, but at least you found out about a very nice incident in the Chamber of Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U261	Thank you very much. Please, Igor Gräzin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U262	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a phone call. I'm gonna start answering one by one. My colleague Jaan Apple Tree! The subject is up in December 2005. This arose two weeks after Gerhard Schröder became the chairman of Nord Stream's shareholder board. The question of what will happen to Eesti Gaas and the gas networks was then raised for the first time. You're saying we're still waiting. We waited six and a half years, wait another six and a half! If nothing has been done in haste, it hasn't been done in haste. By the way, I don't know, but that is how I understand that these decisions were taken by consensus in the Committee on Economic Affairs. There hasn't been any repairs or anything. How, then, did the position of the Sots suddenly change? Go, next point, Mikhail and insult. Well, hello, winter! Remember how Eesti Gaas has been communicating with us, by the way, this morning! I'm not talking about ISO, or proto-ISO, ITO, etc., being on the table for years. I only have manuscripts since 2007. If you think that I have met representatives of Eesti Gaas several times, then there is not. Because if you go there, they'll be gone, or they won't have time, and so on. Eesti Gaas does not communicate! By the way, little of that, I have a question about who he's talking to. Let's just say that Gazprom's senior management, too, has, as we know, raised questions. Do I have to quote Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin? Well, we have to believe him! just saying that there are semi-criminal structures between Gazprom and consumers. In so doing Putin also mentioned who they were. Eesti Gaas sucks up suspicious things. Now Arvi Hamburg and the Academy of Sciences. I don't know much about his science or the academy. One more thing, by the way, he's now dean of the Faculty of Energy of TTÜ. The problem isn't just what he's saying. The problem is that somehow he did not consider it possible to tell anyone that he is an advisor to Eesti Gaas and represents the interests of Eesti Gaas. Question: why? You, Mikhail, you have to tell me who you're with now, and I've got discrimination, too, but he's only 'Academy of Science'. Now, that raises questions because a little cover-up is a big concern. Let's move on. 'Let's give time to Eesti Gaas! ', 'Can't Eesti Gaas get alternative sources of fuel? ', et cetera. It's okay! But he hasn't done it in seven years. The members of the Riigikogu have said, by the way, that my party members can buy fuel elsewhere, for example from Central Asia. In addition, Eesti Gaas said to buy from where and whatever, but you will not be able to access our networks. Let's move on, next thing. It is, by the way, Hamburg and very many other tricks that I ask and myself answer. Question number one: what happens when there is a gas disruption? No one has threatened it because there have been no gas disruptions towards Estonia and Gazprom has always fulfilled its supply contracts with regard to Estonia honestly. I have no reason to believe that such villains as Hamburg has tried to claim are sitting on Gazprom's senior board. Gazprom is an honest, large and very solid company, and these fears are driven by dishonest people. Next thing you know, now we're taking the price down. It's not, by the way, very sure. What is certain is that we have been overpaying enormously for all these years, and afterwards it is known. What happens tomorrow? It is very difficult to say, because the prices of energy carriers are rising and I do not know how much real background this shale gas has, particularly as regards Poland. Let's see the future. I would like to emphasise one thing. If the leaders of Eesti Gaas have some memory and conscience, they will admit it. They've been trying to talk to them for years, they've only started talking very, very recently. However, this morning's letter, which contains a completely indiscreet blackmail and which has been written in a generally unscrupulous tone, is offensive to us. Guys, please understand one thing: time's up! We have been looking and waiting too long to cooperate with Eesti Gaas. They didn't talk to us for six years. It was said that we must learn from the experiences of others. I think we must also learn from our own experiences and draw a very simple conclusion: it still sucks that we didn't do all this before! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U263	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U264	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing here under the sun that's ever been replayed by the same things that have been. When a bill was discussed in this Chamber a few years ago, which provided for the full opening of the electricity market in 2013, it was the opposition lines that gave rise to warnings about the rise in prices ahead. It was clear already at that time that the marked increase in prices would come, but it seemed somehow distant and the risk was not fully perceived. Now that large consumers have experienced price jumps in Nord Pool on 1 January, the sharp price increase for all consumers will be tangible. The question is, why am I talking about this long ago? It is still because the government is preparing the next year for natural gas consumers, in terms of price increases, with a draft of 166 which is being processed today. Whether this day arrives in 2016, 2017 or 2018, it is not known, but it will inevitably arrive. Today seems to be a long way off, but it'll be here very quickly. The separation of ownership of the gas networks required by the bill must ultimately be paid up by the consumer. Whoever acquires these networks on the basis of market value will certainly want to recoup his investment and, of course, will, with every possible justification, increase the network charges by referring to investment needs. You don't have to look far for examples. Elering OÜ was separated from the ownership of Eesti Energia at the end of 2009 and by now the share of network service in the household electricity bill has increased by 28.6%. The consequence is that the price of electricity already accounts for only one third of the money paid by the consumer, as well as two thirds of the network charges and other taxes imposed by the State. The same result will be achieved by gas in years' time. It does not matter to the consumer that the amount he is paying for gas consumption is perhaps less than the price of the gas than the network charges. Although it is claimed that the gas network can be acquired by anyone who has fulfilled the necessary conditions set out in the draft law, it is quite likely that it will be acquired by Elering, which is owned by the State. For some reason, it is Elering who is the most involved in this bill. This is confirmed by the fact that Taavi Veskimägi has stated that the Government of the Republic has tasked Elering with establishing competence in gas networks. This is done again for the money that consumers pay as network charges, because network charges are Elering's income. It also makes sense from the point of view that nationalisation seems to be a very good practice for our liberal government, and I am thinking of the recent nationalisation of the unemployment fund. Of course, this creation of Elering know-how is a little strange, and the same could be done to give the Port of Tallinn the task of acquiring know-how in the field of aviation. I am not going to dwell on the fact that, as a result of the derogation from the European Union's Internal Gas Directive, we do not currently have any need to make any changes. The requirement will apply when Latvia or Finland, and also through them, Estonia, connects to the single European gas network. The question is, if we have decided to move faster than any requirements and needs, why choose the most expensive route for the consumer: unbundling of the transmission network. This road is the most complicated, because if the owner of the networks does not wish to dispose of it, expropriation will take place, which may lead to long and painful trials. In its opinion, the National Audit Office has also identified a number of questionable issues for the proposed option. For example, Estonia-based studies have not been carried out to demonstrate the impact of the chosen solution on increasing energy security, security of supply and competition. The materials of the European Commission have been based on them, without assessing their relevance in Estonia. The option of setting up an independent transmission network operator would equally meet its objective: the owner of the transmission network will set up a company that owns pipelines. This is the so-called ITO option. The management of ITO and the purchase and sale of services are very strictly regulated and controlled by the Competition Authority. The State has the right to appoint representatives of both the Ministry and the Competition Authority to the Council. Price regulation, use of pipelines, making investment decisions, etc. will only take place in accordance with the Competition Authority. It follows from the above that there is, in this case, full control of the operation of the network. There will be no expropriation of pipelines or trial. The consumer does not have to pay for the costs of the disposal. Any talk about less security of supply and energy security is not taken seriously. The pipelines are located on the territory of Estonia and, as already explained, their use is managed under the control of the Competition Authority. In view of the objective of protecting the consumer from the impact of a similar price increase in the future caused by the opening of the electricity market, an amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party in which the creation of an independent transmission network operator has been thoroughly rewritten. Unfortunately, I must say that the majority of the Committee on Economic Affairs preferred a large price cap in the future and did not support our proposal. I hope that this House will also think about those who want to consume gas at a reasonable price in the future and will support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U265	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U266	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering if I'd come to the remote or not. Then I finally decided that I would come, because my concern about this whole subject that we are dealing with today is a little different. Estonia has recently paid quite a lot of attention to how it looks. Our balanced state budget, 2% of GDP for our defence spending, and all the other factors that are very correct, also seem very nice to others, and Estonia seems to be a wonderfully good small country. There's one thing I learned in this hall today. If you want to fight Russia, find a Russian. All anti-Russians say the Russians can't be trusted, they run over to the enemy in the war. Igor Gräzin never runs over Gazprom's side. Igor Gräzin protects Estonia until the last drop of blood, being Russian from nationality. I am sincerely pleased about this; alongside such citizens, I dare to believe that Estonia will continue to be itself for many years to come. However, much has not been said here today about what is happening in the global gas market as a whole. Unfortunately, the claims that gas in Estonia is being paid for at an unreasonable price are not true. If we do a cruel table, we will see that the basic gas price in the rest of the European Union is in fact much higher than that paid by the Estonian consumer. I am not speaking here cleverly about the state taxes, the state taxes are really good in Estonia. However, in this sense, it must be understood that where these taxes are still collected. We are actually chewing on this problem today, particularly because infrastructure objects should not have been privatised at their own time. Then it went wrong and today we are basically repeating the Estonian Railway case. That, by the way, is also acknowledged by coalition politicians. There's nothing we can do about it. It sometimes tends to be very expensive to fix mistakes afterwards. The problem is that Eesti Gaas has separated its transmission networks from the sales company. In fact, the principle of collective governance could be implemented there without any transfer of State ownership, but this is a subject that is not even wanted to be spoken about. Igor Gräzin claimed that it was not possible to meet the management of Eesti Gaas. I have met the management of Eesti Gaas once. I asked for it myself because I wanted to understand what was really going on. I got this meeting in a week. Once again, I do not agree that they have not been open to dialogue. It's really rude to hear this Gazprom story. Among the shareholders of Eesti Gaas, 67% are residents of the European Union, including fortum, a Finnish state company with 17%. We could stop scaring the Estonian people with the Gazprom bogey once and for all. If it comes out of a Russian man's mouth, it's pretty creepy. After all, today Eesti Gaas could actually rub his hands. If we go out on expropriation, they'll have a reasonable price for it, of course, we don't know that today, that's all very nice in court. By the way, this is the main reason for my remote. Look, if we have managed to look like a terrible country in Europe, imagine how it will affect our business climate and investment environment as a whole if the Estonian state loses such an economic transaction in an international court. I'm deeply concerned about that. It doesn't give much certainty any more if Estonia is a place where something will ever be sold to you, and then at some point it will be decided to take it away from you by force. By the way, I agree that the objective pursued is correct. But do you have to do it like this nervously and unanalysedly and just, I'm sorry, cruelly, I'm not sure of that. I think it would be possible to find some sort of sensible coolness that would also show Estonia more beautiful outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U267	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1 is proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 2 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, and the commission proposes that this should not be taken into account. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U268	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U269	Yes, let us put this proposal to the vote. Let's get ready for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Steering Committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 45 against and 3 abstentions. So it's out of the question. Amendment 3, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, commission: take full account; No 4, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 5, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 6, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 7, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 8, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 9, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 10, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 11, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 12, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 13, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account; No 14, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, take full account. The amendments have been examined. As the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to suspend the second reading of the draft 166, we must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the motion tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of 166. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 166 is closed and the ninth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U270	Let us move to the 10th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 14 May, the Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic for a second reading. Agris Peedu, who was invited to the meeting of the Commission to perform the functions of Deputy Secretary-General of Administrative Policy at the Ministry of Finance, and Maris Kalda, the leading specialist in the Public Procurement and State Aid Department, presented an overview of the content of the four amendments and provided further explanations. The committee decided by consensus to send the draft law to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 30 May, to propose to the Assembly that the second reading of draft 195 be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, that the third reading be carried out on 6 June and that the draft be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U272	Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Toomas Tõniste. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us go to the amendments. The first amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it; the second amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it; the third amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it; the fourth amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The amendments have been examined and therefore the second reading of the draft has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U273	Today's 11th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Kalev Lillo, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U274	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I give an overview of 203 discussions on the draft law amending the State Fees Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, when sending it to second reading. No amendments were received by the deadline. It is as if this could be concluded, but we did have a small debate in the Commission. This was due to the fact that Estonian trailer manufacturers had allegedly written a letter to both the Ministry and the Economic Commission, which, however, could not be found anywhere. It was only a copy of my personal mailbox, and we didn't have any official grounds to process it. However, we asked the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to comment on this. The short summary is that, given the willingness of the trailer manufacturers to reduce the state fees charged on trailers, this would create a deficit of around EUR 650000 in the state budget, which is currently in no way tolerated. The problem, however, is serious. They argue that these fees are not cost-based. Finally, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we decided that we are going ahead with the draft, but we are going to ask the Ministry of Finance and the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu for our part and ask them to deal with this issue in the future. In summary, we decided to send the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for second reading. a on 30 May 2005. There were 8 members of the Commission, 2 against, 0 abstentions. Secondly, the Commission decided to propose that the plenary session conclude the second reading. Again, there were 8 members of the Commission, 2 against, 0 abstentions. Thirdly, if the second reading is completed, the third reading will be carried out on 6 June 2012 with a proposal for a draft law. Eight for, two against, zero abstentions. As I said, the fourth point of the decision was to make an inquiry to the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu. This decision was taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U275	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Lillo. Any requests? There's no call. Since no proposals were received to amend this bill, we also have nothing to review. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U276	Today's 12th item is the second reading of the Act on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. Mr. Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U277	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the law on parental pension, i.e. the law on funded pensions, the law on state pension insurance, and in connection with the amendment of other laws, at several meetings. I will give you an overview of the discussions and questions that have arisen, and I will try to answer them, just as it was dealt with in the Commission. The first reading of the Act on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws was completed on 9 May this year. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for amendments at 14 May 2012 at 14 a.m. Three amendments were received by the deadline, all from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Committee on Social Affairs proposed three amendments. After the end of the first reading of the Act on funded pensions, the State Pension Insurance Act and the related amendment of other laws, the Social Affairs Committee met to discuss the draft and prepare for the second reading at three sessions: 15, 17 and 28 May. The debate in the Committee on Social Affairs at these meetings was as follows: The Social Affairs Committee was accompanied by representatives of the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations and the Association of Estonian Children's Rich Families who actively participated in the meeting on 15 May and supported the procedure and adoption of the draft as a law. It was a concern of the Association of Estonian Pensioners' Associations whether the money on parental pension comes from an existing pension system or is additional money from the state budget. The answer was that this money would be provided in addition to the state budget, no cents would be taken away from the existing pension system. They were satisfied with that solution. On 15 May, the Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Lidia Soontak, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs Reet Home, Adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs Anni Tooma, Adviser to the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, kt Kertu Fedotov, and Chief Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Tõnu Lillelaid took part in the meeting. The Commission's debate focused on three major areas of concern. The first is the number of persons entitled to the pension supplement under the State Pension Insurance Act. The focus was on whether this circle is sufficient or whether beneficiaries of national pensions should be included among those persons. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the right to national pension arises only on the basis of residence in Estonia. The Minister of Social Affairs answered the same question today in Question Time. Additional contributions to the savings pension or pension supplement under the State Pension Insurance Act are granted to persons who have contributed specifically, who have pension rights and for whom social tax has been collected. The goal is to make up for the gaps that a person has experienced because he or she has not been able to work for some time as a result of raising his or her children. Another larger set of questions related to the conditions under which pension fund units could be inherited. The representatives of the Estonian Alliance of Children's Rich Families also raised this issue. The employees of the Ministry of Finance explained that the contributions to the second pension pillar would acquire units in the mandatory pension fund. If one person who is entitled to additional contributions dies early, for example if the child is under 3 years of age, i.e. during the period during which contributions to the second pillar of the pension are made, contributions will be made to the account of the other parent. If a person dies before his or her retirement age, then the succession takes place in general, but when he or she arrives after his or her retirement age, the succession depends on the person's personal choice of the payout system. If payments are made directly from the pension fund and the assets are among the units of the pension fund, they can also be inherited. If a person has entered into a life insurance contract with an insurance company, the succession depends on the conditions under which the pension contract has been concluded, for example whether a guarantee period has been established, which means that, until the end of the period, the pension will continue to be paid to a person appointed by the pensioner, who may be, for example, his or her spouse. However, if there is no retirement period, there is normally no inheritance in the case of life insurance contracts. Thirdly, the Ministry of Social Affairs proposed that the draft be supplemented by a new issue concerning the amendment of the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. The plan is to establish a card for disabled persons from 1 September. As this is urgent, the Ministry of Social Affairs wanted to add this topic to the draft we are discussing today. However, the Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus that we would not add new issues. This is a comprehensive issue concerning the establishment of a parental pension system, and also in the light of the good practice of legislation, we should have interrupted the procedure for this draft if we had wanted to include new issues in it. This would have meant that the adoption of the Parental Pensions Act at the spring session would have been too quick and would have violated the principle of clarity of legislation. We decided to add the disability card issue to the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act pending in the Riigikogu, which is at such a stage that it does not require an interruption of the draft procedure. As I said at the beginning, three proposals were received to amend the draft, all from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposals were presented at the meeting of the Social Democratic Party Group on 15 May. Their desire is for the current system to remain in place and for all parents to be treated equally. As it is difficult to assess the profitability of the first and second pension pillars, the proposers considered it necessary to pay all parents the first pillar of the pension supplement and the rules laid down in the State Pension Insurance Act. There was also a question of how long a parent should take care of a child. Under the current system, i.e. first pillar disbursements, this requirement is eight years. If, in the case of children born after 1 January 2013, contributions to the second pension pillar of one agreed parent are paid within three years, this eight-year requirement does not apply, but becomes a claim for three years. There was a debate on whether this is really equal treatment and whether three years is sufficient to assess the parent's contribution to raising the child, while eight years were required for children born before 2013. The Commission did not consider it possible to support the amendments tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The starting point for parents born in different years is really different. It is very difficult to guarantee people a system of fully equal pensions. The choice of the second pension pillar and additional contributions has been made on the same basis and for the same reasons as the pension reform. The population is ageing and without the second pillar of pension, the cost of the first pillar of pension will increase significantly. Therefore, future commitments must be financed now, not in the future. There is also no answer today to which pension pillar is more favourable for the parent, either the first pillar and the pension supplement paid under the State Pension Insurance Act, or the pension fund units acquired for the additional contributions of the second pillar. The initiators have calculated, on the basis of today's forecasts, that they should be at maximum level. However, it is not possible, unfortunately, to make projections of the growth of the second pillar of the pension in the perspective of 30 to 40 years. It should be borne in mind that the first pillar grows more slowly than the average wage, as well as the fact that the index approved under the National Pension Insurance Act is used to index the annual pension rates, the share of which has previously been multiplied by a coefficient of 0,9. Thus, the annual pension grade will increase more slowly. The benefits of the second pillar pension depend on the age of the person, the chosen pension fund and the terms of the contract entered into. The Committee on Social Affairs was assisted by the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department that it is necessary to assess whether the use of different pension systems (i.e. the first and second pillars) is a reasonable objective. In the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the draft is to support greater problems and to eliminate intergenerational inequalities. Account must also be taken of the particular nature of social benefits and more specifically of support for higher birth rates. They are forward-looking and do not apply retroactively. The Supreme Court has also discussed the matter in its General Assembly and has taken the view that in ensuring social rights, the legislator has wide discretion and choices based on social policy considerations also depend on the economic situation of the state. The amendments made by the Social Committee itself are of a clarifying nature. The wording and the terms used are specified. The draft has made linguistic corrections, which are underlined in the text of the draft. The Commission's decisions were as follows: at its meeting on 17 May, the Committee on Social Affairs made a consensual proposal for the second reading of the draft to be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 30 May 2012. There were five members of the Commission in favour of completing the second reading, with no votes against or abstentions. The third decision was also unanimous: if we finish the second reading today, the third reading could be carried out on 6 June and the draft adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U278	Thank you very much. Please, Eiki Nestor, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U279	Thank you. Of course, thank you to the chairman of the committee for setting out the reasons for the Socialist amendments set out in the explanation of the draft. Margus, I respect you, but I think you realized yourself that you didn't mention the contents. That's why I'm gonna ask you again. Why do we consider it appropriate, on one occasion, to assess that people have actually raised a child, in the case of children born after 1 January 2013, we no longer want to be so sure that we will transfer the money to his account in the first three years, and after that we do not know whether he raised the child or not? That was the content of our proposals. Can you explain why it's good?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U280	Good questioner! I respect you very much, too. I've been thinking about that, too. There are different reasons. Some relate to this logic, which you yourself are also the author of the whole system of funded pensions, which we are increasingly switching to in the very long term. In the case of children born from 2013 onwards, the basic principle is precisely that the state compensates for the difference between the contributions of funded pensions, or the contributions of the second pillar. Indeed, in the case of children born earlier, these payments are made from the first pillar. We will not change the system that has been in place so far, that is, the requirement that the parent should have raised a child for eight years. That's where the distinction arises. These systems are different, that is, on the first and second pillars. Surely you are well aware that this actually places a completely different burden on the state budget. That's where the distinctions come from. I very much hope that in real life, these are very few exceptional cases where this real difference and these demands, i.e. eight years and a three-year contribution, will have some fatal consequences. However, we will be able to supplement this system if necessary in the future. But it is clear that the transition to the funded pension system has already begun with the changes to our pension system, which you yourself are one of the creators of. I think that this will prove very worthwhile at some point, as this will guarantee the sustainability of our pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U281	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U282	Thank you. It's a good idea, but I'm asking where the money comes from now and in the future. Does it come from loans, cuts, tax increases or somewhere else? We know that there will be no money for pensions in the future either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U283	Good questioner! As regards the state's ability to pay out pensions, our pension system is sustainable. The questioner certainly knows that no cents will be taken on the existing pension system as well as on the forecast pension line. This money comes from the state budget. It is planned in the state budget strategy and comes because of the growth of the economy and our budget. This is a political decision that we are making today in this Chamber, which is literally a political choice, whether we value raising children, whether we ensure that all parents are treated fairly or not. It is certainly not a source of financing to take out a loan or create a temporary source of revenue for the State. It is a very far-reaching decision, which will have a long-term impact on our pension system as a result of the resulting systemic changes. It is based on valuing the work of raising children and eliminating the unfair treatment that is currently in our pension system. In the case of children born after 1 January 1991, the pension supplement shall not be taken into account, but in the case of children born before 1991, this supplement shall be taken into account in two annual rates.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U284	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U285	Thank you. Do you think parental pension affects birth rate behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U286	Thank you, good questioner! The birth behaviour is influenced by very different political decisions in their interaction. One important factor is that this policy is stable. Surely the introduction of a parental pension is a very positive message for people who have decided to raise children or who have already done so. It is easier to make these family decisions than to know that the state values raising children. But let's look at the specific figures. If, on the whole, we take the amount that the state will pay for each child as a pension supplement from 2015, it will make three annual rates for one child per year EUR 184.8 according to current forecasts, for two children it will be EUR 369, or almost EUR 370 per year, for three children already EUR 554.6 per year. This is a specific pension supplement for people who have decided to contribute to raising children. I think it will certainly give a positive message. The Estonian state has shown that no matter what government is in power, the pension system will not be changed with an easy hand. I hope that this fundamental political decision, which we will make today and next week, today we will finish second reading, will remain valid for a longer period, regardless of the political powers in power.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U287	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U288	Thank you, Madam President. I have just opened my mailbox and I have seen that the European Commission has today sent its recommendations to Estonia for the period up to 2013. There is one part that directly concerns today's subject, namely parental benefit and child benefits. We are advised to pay more attention to precisely those benefits that children can therefore pay more attention to children, not to parents or grandparents. It seems to me that with this bill, which is very positive, we somehow ignore real needs. How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U289	Good questioner! After all, we have discussed child poverty and the situation of families together on several occasions in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I think that this must be not only the present Riigikogu, but also one of our main issues in the future that we are dealing with in all areas when we make political decisions. In my opinion, any political decision taken at state, government or local government level should be analysed from the perspective of how it contributes to raising children, to the situation of families and children. In this sense, the introduction of a specific parental pension is an obvious positive signal. However, this does not mean that we should not have to deal with other problems that we have been more and more charted, and perhaps the current composition of the Riigikogu will have heated debates over the next three years on how to improve the situation of children and families. One measure certainly does not exclude the other, rather it complements each other. But it is very right that these are our main problems that we have to deal with, and I do not see that the representatives of the four political parties represented in the Riigikogu have particular differences of opinion in this regard. It is a question of methods and possibilities that the country has. In conclusion, these decisions are always very difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U290	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U291	Thank you, good manager. Good first speaker! Do you agree that this law actually corrects the mistake that the last 21 years have been the case that the parents of children born during independence have not received a pension supplement, even though those who were born in the past have received it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U292	Yes, a good questioner, it is indeed a strange situation that we pay the pension supplement from the budget of the Republic of Estonia for children who were born before the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia and we do not pay it for children born in the Republic of Estonia. This is an injustice that the introduction of a parental pension would eliminate, and we will add a share of the parental pension of one year's worth to all of us. In my opinion, it is a matter of honour for the state to begin to value the raising of children born in the Republic of Estonia. Yeah, that's right! It has not been much discussed in the public, but indeed, with a parental pension we will eliminate this unfair situation and restore our honour.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U293	Thank you very much. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I thought I'd bully you a little, pour some oil into the fire. In general, I think that if political parties could use the help of experts to work through their ideas, they would not bring such drafts here. But this is an introduction to pouring oil into the fire. Now to the point. If I go over time, I'm sorry! Actually, I'm asking for more time in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U295	I'll give you eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U296	Since Mr Tsahkna has already spoken about the theoretical aspects of the undertaking, I will not go into social security theory for long. Our first pillar, where parental benefit is paid as an supplement, is a purely solidarity system. The collection pension itself is an individual scheme in its pure form. Even if you approach it theoretically, putting these two systems together this way will result in a bad result. And why is that? We have a unique opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to make this draft a proper law, so we will continue to consider in the Estonian pension system whether the parent has actually raised the child or not. For children born earlier than 1991, it exists. For children born after 1 January 1991, this will be taken into account in a very reasonable manner, and that is very good. But in the case of children born after 1 January 2013, this fortress is no longer there. That is not why I am simply describing what this process looks like today, that the decision on the pension supplement will be taken by the parents when they actually retire. Then it will be agreed among themselves who the recipient of this annex is. Unfortunately, in one case out of 100, no agreement will be reached and the court will have to decide who gets the supplement. But basically, we should be able to be sure that the parents who actually raised the child will receive the pension supplement. If in the first three years we pay additional money to one parent's funded pension account, there will be no more security. In other words, a parent who later did not raise a child at all may also receive a pension supplement. And worst of all, the parent who actually raised is left with no pension allowance, even though he raised the child as an adult and did it for years, but not a cent was transferred to his account until he was three years old. So, ladies and gentlemen, who have been fighting here for years for women who have problems with men not wanting to do their parenting duties and failing to pay money, if you pass this law in this form, you will hurt these women. The same group you've been so bravely defending when you come up with different ideas, now you're hurting them! There are two ways. Our proposals are very simple and logical. It would be right to leave all this compensation to the solidarity system. The period for calculating pension entitlement expired in 1999. Now, for those who have been born since then, there will be two more annual grades for each child if they have raised the child for the necessary number of years, and also for those who are born after 1 January 2013. Everyone has the same system, and we can be sure that the parent who actually raised the child will receive a pension supplement for raising the child. By adopting the law as proposed, we cannot be sure of it, and that would be a huge mistake, which would mean that very many people would be wronged. I think we can even make these improvements in June. I strongly recommend voting in favour of our amendments because, in general, we are also positive about the draft. At the moment, however, I will leave the President with the second reading of our draft proposal, so that you may have time to think again about whether we are doing the right thing. I think we're doing the right thing, but from 1 January 2013, this thing's gonna go south. Let's fix this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U297	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U298	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we have developed completely new concepts, completely new terms. For the first time in this country and across Europe, we are talking about how cool it is, how wonderful it is to be old. It has never been worded like this before. We are talking about completely new services, we are talking about circles of interest for the elderly, we are talking about a housing fund suited to the elderly, we are talking about the fact that we are in the European Union on an active aging year. It's all very nice and right, but let's remember what's behind all this. This is due to the simple fact that the share of the population under 14 in Estonia is for the first time much lower than that of the population older than 65. There is not a single child in Estonia for every person aged 65 or over! Of course, we need to keep every person at any age, but the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance are working to ensure that all Estonian people share equally fairly the joys of old age, that the wonderful things that await us in old age are equally available to people who have raised children and have received less income because they have been away from working life, and to those who have made a great contribution only to working. In response to a good colleague, Eiki Nestor, who addressed women members of the Riigikogu: the Women's Association of the Riigikogu has not specifically discussed this issue. But on the basis of my modest experience as a parent, I can assure you that the income gap between raising and not raising children arises primarily from two factors. The first is the absence from work due to sick leave and the second is the time spent at home because of the upbringing of children. The sick list may also be given to the father, but only in exceptional cases. In both cases, however, this means being really absent from work, which basically falls to the child's first three years of life. Yes, of course, we need to discuss who actually raised the child from the parents. We can argue here until doomsday, but we cannot find an answer that would satisfy everyone in this Chamber, even if only. Surely there were very heated debates in society when this limit of years was set at eight. But forgive me, my children, I have to admit, it's only going to be difficult to raise a child after the age of eight. Before that, it's relatively simple. Difficult and long conversations on the subject, as well as higher costs, arise after the child reaches the age of eight. Of course, the question can also be asked whether the current system, which takes eight years into account when raising a child, is fair to those people who take care of raising a child in difficult teen years, or to those who lose, for example, seven-and-a-half-year-old children due to a tragic accident and therefore lose their pension supplement. Therefore, I certainly call for these discussions to be held, but in these discussions one could certainly bear in mind that the assessment of whether one or the other parent actually raised a child is difficult. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U299	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U300	Looking at the family models of Estonia, the diversity that prevails, there is reason to fear that we, as members of the Estonian Riigikogu, can cause a lot of pain to some people. However, when it comes to the time taken away from work, which, unfortunately, creates the income gap for the parent, the difference we actually compensate for by means of parental pension. It is difficult to see injustice in the decision that a person who has long been at home with a child and who has a lower income due to being away from work is entitled to a pension supplement. I have not heard any objection to this either from the Social Democrats of good colleagues. Yes, the current parental pension system is largely used by mothers when they stay home from work. This is entirely a question of why well under 10% of fathers stay home to raise a small child and take their job off. That's another subject. But I'm sure we should appreciate raising children. And if the mother or father receives a lower income when the child is at home, the Republic of Estonia must value this effort and ensure that it does not make it painful to feel at retirement age. I call on all good colleagues to take this decision, which is very necessary for Estonia, as soon as possible and with determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U301	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U302	I would use the right to reply because my name was called on the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U303	And please, your line!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U304	I once again draw the attention of the members of the Riigikogu, including the previous speaker, to the fact that this system, which will start on 1 January 2013, is such that one of the parents may leave the child three and a half years old with the money entered in his account. He may never raise that child again, but his pension is in hand and no one will take it away from him again. That's a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U305	Thank you. Speaking chair Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U306	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Ideally, parental pension is the right thing to do, and the component of the pension that takes into account children is right and necessary. Of course, the Centre Party Group also supports this. I'm sure it was a nice slogan, too. But I would still like to remind you that together, let us also examine where the money is taken from. As the waitress said, this money will be added to the state budget and will not be taken from current pensioners. We all know that money for pensions is taken from additional sources anyway, and there is not enough social tax to pay them for a long time. That's why we don't know where the money comes from. We know that the pension insurance budget is now in a deficit of around 2% compared to GDP. The pension fund is in deficit for nearly EUR 200 million. This is the reality of where we are. For years, money has been added from other resources for pensions. We know that we are constantly coming up with people of retirement age, which in itself is extremely nice because our life expectancy is increasing. It is not good, however, that children are not born. Indeed, there is a question mark as to whether these measures will give birth. The most important thing now is to realise that Estonia is the fastest ageing nation in Europe. If we now have about 17% of people aged 65 and over, in 2025 we already have 22% and believe it or not, almost a third already in 2050. Pensioners have earned their pension for life's work, but we can see how the social tax budget does not receive enough and there are fewer and fewer young people at work. Where is this parental pension money taken from? This is the issue, not the parental pension itself. We know that parental pensions are accompanied by a surge in costs and are progressive costs according to the bill. While it would cost 2.8 million euros in 2013 to pay for parental pensions, in 2017 it was already around 44 million euros. Where's the money coming from? Really, I'm asking you, are there cuts, new loans, tax increases, or is there somewhere else where that money might come from? I have a feeling that this bill is a bit full of political air and that there are no scientists and other top specialists involved in it. It's a very sudden birth. Neither social policy professionals nor financial experts are involved. It is the impression that the coalition has simply decided that this must be done, and now immediately and in the spring, otherwise the coalition will burst. We know that the Reform Party is keen to show that it is like a continuation of parental pension and that it is honoured. In fact, this is not a follow-up, because it is questionable whether a pension in 40 years' time will cause women to give birth now. Social security would lead to more children's benefits, day-care centres, free expansion of school meals, recreational pay, better employment, higher pay and much more. Many parents have also claimed that this form of parental pension is pointlessly expensive and there is no certainty that it will continue to be available. Besides, money is needed right now to raise and train children. Mart Jesse, a social and financial specialist, and the Chairman of the Board of the Association of Insurance Companies, whose opinion we have always taken into account in the Committee on Social Affairs, have also said that this is too expensive a measure that, moreover, does not affect fertility behaviour. A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U307	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U308	Since we do not know what the sources of financing for the proposed legislative amendment are, we still have a great deal to think about and discuss. The bill is raw, it is prepared in haste. We don't need such unthinkable, purely political and crude drafts. We need to support families with children, and we need to think about how we can put this good idea into practice in a way that will benefit us in years' time. The Centre Party Group, of course, supports parental pensions, but let us not be hasty and slow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U309	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1, by the Committee on Social Affairs of the Riigikogu, proposed by the commission: take full account. Amendment 2, in favour of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, proposed by the commission: disregard. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U310	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U311	We will vote on this amendment. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the second amendment of bill 213 by the Social Democratic Party Group. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal therefore falls outside the scope of the proposal. Amendment 3, by the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, in favour of the Committee on Social Affairs, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 5, in favour of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the commission proposes that this should not be taken into account. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U312	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U313	Please! We are going to vote on this. Can I go to the vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The amendment therefore falls outside the scope of the amendment. Amendment 6 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission proposes that this should not be taken into account. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U314	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U315	We shall vote on this proposal. Can I go to the vote? Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group. The Steering Committee proposes not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 29), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 43 votes to 43, with no abstentions. Amendment 6 is disregarded. Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments have now been examined. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 213. I'll put it to a vote. Can I go to the vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the motion of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft 213. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 votes in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of bill 213 is closed and item 12 is discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U316	The next item is the second reading of the draft law on public service initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair? I'm sorry! Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U317	Good manager! I have some serious procedural issues. You see, our constitution says that laws must be processed in the Riigikogu according to the law on home and working procedures. Paragraph 102 'List of amendments' of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act states: 'The Management Committee shall draw up a list of amendments submitted to the draft for a second reading, containing the wording of the amendment in the order of the provisions of the draft, the name of the author and the decision of the commission. ' This time, however, the table of amendments to the draft proposed in the Chamber does not follow the order of the provisions. If you do so, you will see that, for example, Amendment 20, tabled by the Central Party Group, speaks of § 172 (3), Amendment 21, tabled by the Socialists, speaks of § 10 (3). The sequence has been made according to the performers. The Socialist amendments end with Amendment 69, which refers to § 146 (10), the following, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, deals with § 3 (3).
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U318	Honourable...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U319	I'll make a procedural proposal, too. The table of amendments does not comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act. I have a proposal that you take a break so that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can meet and decide that we will discuss this draft next week. Then we wouldn't break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U320	Thank you. First of all, it was not the 213 bill, but the next 193. I'll take the manager's three-minute break. We'll proceed at 7:06.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U321	Time's up, but I'm extending the break for another five minutes. We'll be back at 7:18.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U322	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am sorry. We wait three more minutes for the Commission to make its decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U323	Ladies and gentlemen, the lengthy Bureau break is now over. The Riigikogu Board has received such a statement: the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu decided at its extraordinary session on 30 May to take the second reading of the bill 193, i.e. item No 13, out of the agenda of the 16th working week of the third session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U324	The next item is the second reading of the draft anti-corruption law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would ask Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague Eiki Nestor, The draft anti-corruption law was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a March 6th. The first reading, as we remember very well, ended in consensus. The deadline for tabling amendments was 10 days. In the Commission, we discussed and prepared a draft for a second reading at two meetings of the Commission. I would like to thank those who have tabled amendments to this draft. The amendments came from the Central Party Group and the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu, as well as from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself initiated quite a number of amendments. A total of 58 proposals were received. As has already been said at first reading, the wider aim of the draft is to prevent corruption, with more specific objectives being to clarify the constraints and obligations of officials and to improve the system of declaration of interests. The Constitutional Committee also held a session on this draft together with the special committee of the Riigikogu. We looked very closely at these provisions. What could we be more specific about right now? As a result of the amendments, the draft clearly states that anti-corruption activities are coordinated at government level by the Ministry of Justice. The legal basis and competence of the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu have now been established by law. Not only is it noted that the Riigikogu has the right to set up special committees, but this basis is now much more serious. Compared to the first-reading version of the draft, we now have, on the basis of the amendments, a statement that all declarations submitted are identical in content, are submitted to the register and are public. The bill narrows down the circle of declarants who have to declare their interests. The staff of the security authorities have been excluded. Like I said, declarations are public. If the original text stated that the declarations of the staff of the security authorities were to be kept separate and we did not have access to them, then we did not consider such an approach to be necessary. After all, the purpose of the declaration is to prevent cases of corruption through public scrutiny. We did not think it was right to simply put the declaration in a drawer, but we did consider it to be an obligation to check the security authorities' staff, which means that they must present an appropriate report on their interests to the boss. Limitations on the performance of officials must be laid down in the Civil Service Act. We have a position that this section should go over to ATS, but that is what we will be talking about next week. On the basis of the recent judgment of the Supreme Court, the right of an official to engage in ancillary activities is derived from the Constitution and the grounds for limiting it must be clearly stated for both the official and the controlling body. It is also important in this draft that an official is prohibited from mediated corrupt profits. This amendment came from our good colleagues in the Central Party of the Riigikogu and the proposal was supported by the committee. As a corrupt income, the benefit required by an official must be understood. There was some dispute about who would be regarded as a person involved in this law other than those in matrimonial relations. The Special Committee proposed that it should also be a partner in a marriage-like relationship. The basic committee understood the need for this change, but at the same time it should be taken into account that the concept of partner has not been defined. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, together with the Ministry of Justice, found that this problem could be resolved by amending § 7 (1) (4) of the bill, which now reads: '... a person associated with a common household with an official, as well as any other person whose status or activity has a significant and immediate impact on the official's position outside the official's office. " A common household is actually the same as the concept of a common household under our laws. We gave up treating the parent relatives of the official's husband as related persons, so that our brothers and sisters and their children will no longer be treated as related persons in this sense. The Commission considered this approach to be correct because this degree of involvement is highly doubtful and may be vague. The original text of the draft law stated that the official should indicate another factor in the declaration which precludes the impartiality or objectivity of the official. We were talking here that this could be stated in this declaration, but it is a general and relatively vague requirement, and the Commission has decided to delete this provision from the draft. We specified when the official would be obliged to make a declaration. It will occur within four months of being recruited. Currently, the date by which declarations should be submitted should be 31 May. The Tax and Customs Board is most likely to manage all this register and business. It was discussed that perhaps this date should be earlier, for example by the end of March, but the Commission has now chosen this date. The following is important compared to the first-reading draft option. At present, the declaration is public, but there are no personal identification numbers, names of associated persons or specific addresses, such as the addresses of some properties. This will continue to apply, but since there will be a public register of declarations and data provided there, which will all be accessible at any given time (this is actually the public control), we have found that this intervention by an official should be balanced in the other way. We thought that the person making the declaration should also have the right to be informed of who has been interested in the information contained in his declaration. This register can be viewed by anyone using their own ID card, but these data can also be identified in the other way. This amendment proposed by the Commission was also supported by representatives of the Ministry of Justice as the initiator of the draft. We are planning to enforce this bill at the same time as it is planned to enforce the new Civil Service Act, i.e. on 1 April 2013. There are other provisions and changes, but I'm not going to bring them out one by one right now. Everything important, I think, got presented. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading today and adopt the draft as a law at the Riigikogu meeting on 6 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U326	Thank you very much, Mr Linde. You have questions. Starts with colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U327	Thank you. Väino, § 11 'Restrictions of proceedings' paragraph 1 (3) states that an official is prohibited from performing an act or decision when the official is aware of the risk of corruption. If he is aware, he should make a statement, not withdraw from making a decision. What to do with public procurement in this case? There's always a risk of corruption. One company may agree with several others, no one of course knows about it, and suggestions are made in such a way that a firm wins. It's corruption. But if officials start to withdraw from making decisions if they refuse to make decisions, then who will make those decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U328	Thank you. The Anti-Corruption Act regulates the prevention of corruption precisely in the fulfilment of a public task. As a result, what you, a good questioner, referred to may not fall under this provision is the possible activity between private companies. However, this could certainly be contrary to quite a few other provisions in force. However, if one or the other official is, in my opinion, the owner of a company participating in a public procurement procedure or is in any other way very close to the management of that company, these interests must definitely be recorded in the declaration and reported. Otherwise, it is indeed possible to consider this official to be an outlaw in the spirit of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U329	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U330	Dear waitress, At first reading of the bill, I was interested in the meaning of the term 'partner' when I asked the Minister of Justice. Now I see that this concept is open. I read here that the Special Committee has recommended the wording 'partner in a relationship similar to marriage', as is the case with the draft law on public service, which we did not discuss today. It is quite understandable, but the Ministry of Justice did not support this proposal in this way. The Ministry of Justice considered that the same objective could be achieved by the following wording: 'A person associated with a common household with an official, as well as any other person whose status or activities have a significant and immediate impact on the official's position outside the official's office, or who is significantly and directly affected by the status or activity of an official outside the official's office, or... ' I have two questions. First of all, how is it possible that the Ministry of Justice recommends that the same concept be explained in a completely different way in the various drafts being processed at the same time? Secondly, my fantasy doesn't take what other authority, who is not in a marriage relationship, yet we're talking about. Is there going to be some kind of grace for lovers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U331	Thank you. I'll start at the end of the question. There may be some sort of debtor-creditor relationship or something like that. As I pointed out at the beginning of my presentation, the Commission found that the current wording also embraces what the authors of the amendment proposed to our committee. That is why we were talking about a common household, a common household. This talk about the other person was in the law for the time being. We didn't have any doubts about that. We think it is very important that this provision be here, because there may be very different situations in life when one person, including an official, can affect another person outside its office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U332	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U333	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you another question, but I'll come back to the first question. Can you give a practical example? Paragraph 11 'Restrictions of proceedings': 'The public is prohibited from performing an act or decision if... " The first point makes it clear: if a decision is taken against the authority itself or against a person related to it. The following paragraph shall also be understood: where an official is aware of an economic or other interest which may affect an act or decision by him or by a person related to him or by him or her. However, the third point reads as follows: if the official is aware of the risk of corruption. Please give two or three practical examples, perhaps at the local government level, of the circumstances that this point 3 interprets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U334	Thank you. The concept of risk of corruption is relatively broad within the meaning of this law. In a particular case, the authority itself must find the basis for whether or not its behaviour, involvement in a company or situation could lead to a risk of corruption. It's pretty subjective, though, as he looks at it. At the moment, I have no good example of this. I would argue that all of this is, in many respects, an estimate and also goes back to what the official needs to present in this declaration. I do not rule out that in some cases it may also be that officials in similar situations understand the potential risk of corruption differently. That is why these more specific provisions are also included, when it is absolutely necessary to do so, as you have pointed out. This is a somewhat more general provision, which should not leave the grey space in this region.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U335	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U336	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject of the previous question. That's a lot of concern. If a person as wise as an important representative of the Commission cannot answer this question, how can any official be made aware of whether there is a threat or not? As a result, I fear that officials will not be able to resolve any issues at all. There will be such bureaucracy that no problem will ever be resolved in any administration, no official will dare to make any more decisions, because maybe there is a corrupt relationship. We have seen that, if there have been certain events in some local governments, the decision-making is abruptly over and people cannot solve any of their problems, no one will decide anything, because suddenly there will be a kapo and suddenly there will be a corrupt relationship. Aren't we going to drown the whole country in bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U337	Thank you. I really hope I don't. You asked the question, however, relatively over-enhanced. In this form, this draft has now been presented and we consider it necessary to process it in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U338	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Linde. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U339	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it must be said that a new version of the Anti-Corruption Act has been awaited for a long time, because the existing law can be considered to be time-barred and this law does not meet today's requirements. The draft before us seems to create a presumption that the pursuit of corrupt acts will not only be a matter for the investigative bodies in the future, but that the public will also have more scope for scrutiny. The Centre Party, as the only group, tabled amendments to the draft. There were 13 of them. I am pleased that there was a constructive debate, there was close cooperation, and quite a number of our ideas were also supported. For example, in addition to demanding and obtaining corrupt income, it is forbidden for an official to mediate corrupt income. Our proposal to reduce the number of persons involved was also supported in order to avoid any excessive conflict of interest. It is particularly in smaller settlements that too broad a circle of connected persons can lead to operational restrictions. It doesn't make sense to over-regulate things. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the problems that are still in the draft and which we cannot be satisfied with in any way. The most important of these is the use of impact. The dictionary explaining the Estonian language says the word 'impact' as meaning that it is the effect of something or someone to cause a change. We are all politicians here, and we want to bring about certain changes. We want to influence Estonia's life so that people are better and we want to bring about these changes through politics. How can a politician do things without using the word 'impact' in any way? For example, I certainly used influence in my previous work when I called the companies to come to public procurement. In small places, there is a serious problem as to how to create competition in public procurement. I also called companies to get money for sports clubs. So if this impact provision is included in the law, it will certainly be an opportunity to get very easily suspicious. However, in the draft on your tables, the word 'impact' is a vague concept, and it remains unclear what is still understood by it. Where does the limit of influence and influence run? Who is the right person or authority to evaluate it? It should not be allowed that, because of the uncertainty of the law, anyone should be unduly suspicious. The Centre Party also drew attention to these bottlenecks in its amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Before becoming the law of this bill, I suggest you think well about whether and how this rather abstract concept of 'impact' should be addressed. In this way, we will avoid further confusion, both among those who have to comply with this law and among those who are in control of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U340	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U341	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, on Friday, in particular, I was with two local government leaders and I suggested that they discuss this bill, because I think it is precisely at the local government level that this is most needed, simply because they are more noticed. Our debate ended right there, on which I asked the Commission's representative, § 11 'Corruption of the proceedings'. I'll explain that logic to you. Officials are, for example, mayor and mayor. First point: The official shall be prohibited from taking an act or decision where the decision or act is taken in relation to the official himself or a person related to him or her. It's clear, it's understandable. You don't do it to yourself, you don't do it to a husband, you don't do it to a brother. That makes perfect sense. Second point: the official is aware of the economic or other interest which may affect the act or decision of the person concerned or of the person related to him. That's also clear. It takes more logic, more knowledge. But if you're more or less in possession of information, you can also avoid that danger. But now this third point: the official is aware of the threat of corruption. What is the threat of corruption? Is this a threat from his relatives because of personal circumstances? There is no real interpretation of the threat of corruption in this law. When I was in the Public Procurement Committee, I took a decision that I could assume there was a risk of corruption, but I did not know that exactly. It's impossible to know exactly, because if you know exactly what's going on, there's just nothing going on and that's it. Who is the subject of this threat of corruption? Mr Kallo and I did not talk about this, but he said what the local government leaders told me. It's just that you're not gonna make decisions anymore, because how you're gonna put yourself under attack. This discussion with the two local government leaders I know ended at point 7: 'The restrictions of the proceedings do not apply in a rural municipality or city institution if, given the specific nature of the local government unit, the application of the operating restriction would be unreasonable from a public interest point of view. A notice of non-application of the operating restriction under this point shall be published immediately and permanently on the website of the municipality or city. ' The question arises as to how powerful this decision is. They may think that they have the right to make that statement on a specific matter, and that is it. But where is the provision that says that in this case they will be protected from anyone saying that there was a risk of corruption on the basis of point 3 anyway? In the round of questions, it has already been said that it takes away any desire to take any decisions, whereas the right to pass decisions on to other officials is also prohibited, which is even more interesting. How do we get out of this situation? I think this law is absolutely necessary, but I think it creates so many problems. There is clearly little in this interpretation of what is currently in the text of the law. I gave you the opinion of two local government leaders. I think that if all the local government leaders read this bill, most of them would say the same thing and ask the same questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U342	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. 58 of the draft law. Let's get started. The first amendment has been tabled by a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act; the commission has partially taken the proposal into account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. it has been fully taken into account. The third amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has taken the amendment fully into account. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U343	Thank you. I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U344	All right! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been neglected by the commission. Please vote! 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 7 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 8 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U345	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U346	Okay. Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act; the commission has taken the proposal into account in substance. Amendment 10 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, part of it has been taken into account. Amendment 12 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 13 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 15 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been disregarded. Amendment 16 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 18 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the commission has taken the proposal into account in substance. Amendment 19 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 20 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 21 has been tabled by a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act; the commission has taken the proposal into account in substance. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act; the proposal has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act and this proposal has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 25 has been tabled by the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act; the Steering Committee has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 26 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 27 has been tabled by the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 28 has been tabled by a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 30 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the Steering Committee has taken the proposal into account in substance. Amendment 32 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 33 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 34 is from the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 35 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 36 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 37 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the commission has rejected the proposal. Amendment 38 is from the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the Steering Committee has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 39 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 40 is from the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the Steering Committee has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 41 has been tabled by the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 42 is from the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 43 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 44 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has decided not to take the proposal into account. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U347	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U348	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 44, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 45 is from the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act; the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 46 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 47 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 48 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 49 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 50 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 51 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 52 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 53 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 54 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 55 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 56 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 57 is from the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act, has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 58 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is that it is fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 192 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U349	The second reading of the draft law on military service initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation from the Chair of the National Defence Commission, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U350	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before the second reading in its 17 sessions. In doing so, the National Defence Commission, together with the officials of the Ministry of Defence, dealt with the draft in detail and by section. The National Defence Committee worked with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft, which resulted in the alignment of the definitions of the draft Law on Civil Service 193 and the draft Act on Defence Forces 172. The operational service provided for in the draft under discussion is, in particular, a special type of public service and the draft law on military service also refers to and applies the principles set out in the draft law on public service. In addition, the Committee on National Defence asked for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the provision on the fundamental rights and freedoms of conscripts and on the requirement for basic education for conscripts. The representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs confirmed in the Committee on National Defence that the provision on the limitation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of conscripts should be specified in the draft and considered that the requirement for basic education for those in military service as set out in the draft is not justified to the extent necessary. In addition, cooperation with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was carried out on the provisions of the draft anti-corruption law 192. The National Defence Committee presented its proposals for the draft by consensus. The proposals were, by way of exception, presented as one single amendment, as it would have been technically very time-consuming to formalise a very large number of amendments individually. I repeat, this decision was consensual. The examination of the draft law under consideration was made more difficult by the parallel procedure with the draft law on public service. The draft Defence Forces Service Act 172 was initiated earlier by the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu and therefore had to be brought into line with the draft Civil Service Act that was later initiated. The text of the draft law on the Civil Service Act also changed during the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and therefore had to be amended in a synchronised manner to the draft proposal pending before the National Defence Committee. In order to distinguish between the text of the draft at first reading, the amendments made by the National Defence Committee are underlined in the table of the amendments as well as in the main text of the draft at second reading. Perhaps a few examples of major changes. The procedure first changed the time when the Civil Service Act entered into force, and therefore the relevant provisions of the Defence Forces Service Act had to be amended. According to the revised draft, conscripts who do not have a basic education and who are exempted from conscription under the current law will be allowed to join the service. Pursuant to the amendment proposed by the National Defence Commission, conscripts who have completed at least a basic school within the meaning of subsection 2 (1) (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act are invited to military service. The amendments to the bill make the age limit for the conscription of female persons equal to the age limit for male trainees. Like members of the Riigikogu, members of the European Parliament are also exempt from inviting them to study meetings. Paragraph 31 of the draft law added a new paragraph 5 concerning the assessment of the health status of a disabled or incapacitated professional, a replacement worker, a person in reserve and a person wishing to take on a defence force obligation. The medical committee can now take a decision on the assessment of health status without the presence of a disabled person or a disabled person. This person is not required to submit to the Commission the result of the so-called medical examination which has already been drawn up in order to prove the existence of disability or incapacity for work. These data are entitled to receive from the Social Insurance Board pursuant to the new paragraph 4 of § 14 of the Bill. In addition to the amendments tabled by the Commission, ladies and gentlemen Marianne Mikko and Ülo Tulik, whose proposals were taken into account in substance. A number of amendments were also received from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, after which three parts were taken into account in the committee and the rest were, unfortunately, disregarded. As has been said, the decisions of the National Defence Committee on the amendments were the result of an in-depth discussion and consensus. As representative of the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Defence supports all amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission and other amendments submitted by the National Defence Committee. The National Defence Committee is accompanied by representatives of the Assembly of Estonian Reservoir Officers and the Estonian Assembly of Retired officers, who met at three meetings of the Committee. The National Defence Committee thanks the representatives of these collections for their contributions to the proceedings and for their opinions. As a result of this work, for example, the concept of a military soldier, as it is in the current Defence Service Act, was again included in the draft. The Commission thanks Taimar Peterkop, the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence and the Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration for their good cooperation. In addition, representatives of the Defence Forces, who also have the thanks of the National Defence Commission, participated in the proceedings of the draft. I would specifically like to mention the contribution of Mr Aivar Engel, Head of the Counsellor/Secretariat of the National Defence Committee, to the process. At its meeting on 17 May this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda for the second reading of the 172nd session of the Riigikogu. At its meeting on 28 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the text of the draft at second reading, the table of amendments and the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop reading the second draft of the law 172. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U351	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U352	Dear waitress, Paragraph 44 (2) of the draft law reads: "After admission to a vocational training institution, university of applied sciences or university, a higher education diploma awarded at the end of which a nationally recognised diploma is awarded shall be awarded to the Office of Defence Resources in writing by 15 September of the calendar year in which, at the latest within three years of its admission to the institution, it wishes to take up the duties of the Defence Forces... " It is probably based on the fact that the undergraduate is three years old. However, as we know, there are several specialties in Estonia where the studies are four years old, such as actor training. Moreover, it is largely a group work, where the absence of the last academic year makes teaching quite meaningless. Does the law also provide for some of the steps that should be taken in this case to obtain an extension of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U353	Thank you. This was discussed in the Commission. The most sincere advice for aspiring actors is, of course, that one could go through military service before starting an education and gain a very valuable experience for his later studies. That was the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U354	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U355	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my practice, for the first time, 384 individual amendments have been tabled on 82 pages on the table, and I understood that the Commission was guided by rationality and, in terms of time savings, all of these proposals were tabled as one amendment. What's the move? Was it due to a lack of initiative or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U356	That was indeed the Commission's decision, and it was done on the principle of rationality. As I have repeatedly emphasised, this decision was consensual. If the decision had given rise to debates, we could have, as has been mentioned, all these more than 380 amendments have been issued separately. However, in most of these improvements, the technical culling was not fundamental. The Commission is indeed a little concerned about the technical quality of the draft, but since it is a very important draft, the Commission has taken the decision that we will complete this work in committee, as is appropriate for the legislator, and we will come to the Chamber with the result of this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U357	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U358	Thank you! Dear waitress, First of all, a comment. After all, you could have given this recommendation to all students who are going to study for three years. But my second question concerns § 4. Paragraph 4 refers to the substitute service and it is stated here that the substitute service is compulsory national defence training. Later, this concept of'state-defence training' is not open anywhere, nor has it been done in the chapter of the substitute service. Paragraph 6 'War Training' apparently deals with something else. How do you understand that? It's tautology. The substitute service is national defence training, also in the school for children with special needs. Is that what teachers do? What exactly does this term mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U359	I'll come back to the actress studies. One very dignified lecturer with whom I discussed the subject also pointed out that if a person who has studied as an actor for three years cannot play the role of not being able to join the Defence Forces, then the faculty has failed. But as far as the definitions of training, military training and military training are concerned, when you found the term'military training' in somewhere, it could probably be further editorially corrected as we removed the concept of military training from this bill. Indeed, there are currently two concepts: military training and military training, the Defence Forces versus the Defence League. That is why the definition of military training is set out in § 6. [[Jaak Allikühe.]] Paragraph 4 concerns a substitute service in the form of compulsory national defence training. A substitute service is a service when, for religious or moral reasons, military service has been refused, usually by refusing to take up arms, in many cases by avoiding contact with blood. At the same time, the substitute service is a form of training. National defence training is a broader concept. When we talk about defence and its broad-based concept, this is a completely new issue that does not concern the draft. But I can tell you that the broad-based Green Paper on National Defence is under construction and should be completed by the end of the year. I will be narrating that next year, the National Defence Commission and the Government are planning to bring here a new law that will unite the Wartime National Defence Act and the Peace Age National Defence Act, which will give national defence a second dimension. Then I'd be happy to answer your question in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U360	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U361	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a request. The Social Democratic Party presented a proposal on service guarantees, namely the payment of certain premiums to children of members of the Defence Forces who have been killed or injured and of replacement servants, as well as other guarantees. Would you mind opening it up in a few words? Do you think that this is a problem, whether it needs to be resolved, and if it does not need to be resolved in this law, does the Commission or the Government of the Republic have a plan to deal with this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U362	Thank you. You spoke of a proposal on regular monthly support for children of the Defence Forces who have died or been injured. The issue is serious and the Commission fully understood the substance of this problem. I dare say that it would be unfair for us to address this issue in the Committee on National Defence. There are other services, such as police, border guards and rescue services, where, unfortunately, there is a very high-risk service environment and there are both wounded and fallen in the performance of their duties. This issue should be looked at more broadly, rather than starting with a specific target group. On the other hand, the reality is that civil society has become active. Several initiatives have been taken in the field of the Defence Forces, such as the Illenzeer Foundation and others. These funds collect financial resources, focusing specifically on children, in particular, children killed or wounded by armed forces. As far as I know, the same initiative is planned for the rescuers this summer. They also want to set up a fund to solve family problems from a children's perspective. Our decision in the debate on this proposal, where your representative was also present, was that we are sending a letter of formal notice to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who is in the hands of the Civil Service Act. The above were all specific types of civil service, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could look at this issue in a complex way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U363	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U364	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable Chairman of the National Defence Commission! We are indeed dealing with an extremely important draft law on military service. I would like to congratulate you and the committee you chair for the very thorough and meaningful work they have done in preparing this draft. But as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I cannot fail to ask about the basic education requirement in the Defence Forces. Would you open up a bit more of the reason why it was decided to waive the criterion of basic education for military service? Is there a danger, or do you really find it to be the right thing to do? I guess that's when you decided to do it, but why don't you guys light it up a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U365	Thank you very much. Thanks for the compliments, too! In particular, all the political groups that have sent their very capable representatives to the National Defence Committee must be commended. That's the team we're doing that job there. As far as basic education is concerned, the text of the draft has sought to achieve a balance. There were two extremes on the table: a very specific basic education requirement and a zero requirement. The average score was found in the current state. Let's see how this materializes in life. Now it says grade two, which means graduating from six grades. Graduation of the six classes would, in our opinion, be a sufficient basis for military service. Here is one such nuance that persons with such education can obtain a vocational education or speciality at the age of 17, according to the VET Act. This base should also be sufficient for military service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U366	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. I'm sorry! No, please, hurry up! Can't talk to Cocksaw if you want to talk to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U367	Excuse me, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm sorry, too, for the people of Riisa, that we stopped talking! I'd really like to say a few words. First of all, I would like to thank the Commission for adopting some of our amendments. I must also say that it was somewhat strange for those people who, at least, know to have a social sphere, to sit with social affairs in this committee, where the defence sector is certainly well-suited. That's why we may have had a few misconceptions. I want to highlight two things. I strongly recommend that the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Social Affairs come together and discuss a few things. I must say that it is very difficult to change the current social side of all the families of the soldiers who have died. One line has been taken, and it is difficult to change and needs a longer reflection. We offered an interim solution. At the moment, the principle is that the family of the deceased is given one-off and effective support. But look, families are different, one takes this one-off compensation faster, the other slower. Unfortunately, as my colleague from our group, on the basis of his work in a non-profit organisation, has said that the sufferers are children. Maybe the approach we have now is not the right one. In the long run, you have to think this through properly how reasonable it is. Another example is the same area. We cannot vote on this proposal here either. Please think about it too! We're talking about a survivor's pension. Indeed, in the State Pension Insurance Act, ladies and gentlemen, there is a provision that says that the right to a survivor's pension arises during certain years when people have been married. It happens in five years. Our proposal was to delete this provision from the draft. The starting point of the draft act was negative, as the State Pension Insurance Act has the same principle. But there's a very important difference. According to the State Pension Insurance Act, widows who died as a result of a long-term serious illness receive a very large part of the survivor's pension. That is the point of this provision. The survivor's pension provided for in the draft Defence Forces Service Act is not granted in such a case, but is granted because of a one-off sad event and for relatively young people. I suggest you seriously consider whether this five years is justified here or not. You can't move things around from one topic to another. I would really like the Committee on National Defence to discuss this topic together with the Committee on Social Affairs in the autumn, especially with regard to the soldiers who have died and the soldiers who have been on the mission, in the spring it will no longer be possible to review it. In wishing the bill a good future, I say that this side of the law will remain unresolved, at least for us, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U368	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There's 16. The first proposal has been presented by the National Defence Committee and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second proposal is by my colleague Marianne Mikko, and the proposal has been taken into account in substance. The third proposal is Mr Ülo Tulikis and the proposal has been taken into account in substance. The fourth proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected the proposal, but this proposal is not to be voted on. The fifth proposal is also from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and this proposal is also not to be voted on, although the lead committee has rejected the proposal. The sixth proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has not taken the proposal into account, but this proposal is not to be voted on. The seventh proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected the proposal; the proposal is not to be voted on. The eighth proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected the proposal, but the proposal is not to be voted on. The ninth proposal has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has partially taken the proposal into account. The 10th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has partially taken the proposal into account. The 11th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on. The 12th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has partially taken the proposal into account. The 13th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on. The 14th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 15th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected the proposal and this proposal is not to be voted on. The 16th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected the proposal and this proposal is not to be voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 172 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U369	The second reading of the draft Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, please, one more time, Chairman of the National Defence Commission Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U370	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before its second reading in ten sessions. In doing so, the National Defence Commission, together with the officials of the Ministry of Defence, dealt with the draft in detail and by section. The purpose of the draft is to create the conditions and procedures for the implementation of the new draft law on military service, which has just finished second reading, as a law. In addition to the way in which the transition from the existing regulation to the new one will take place, the draft law provides for changes to other laws which are in contact with the Defence Service Act in force until now or the need to amend it is due to the adoption of the new draft Defence Service Act as a law. Amendments to the draft were tabled by the National Defence Committee as the lead committee. The amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee stem from the proposals made by the Chairman of the National Defence Commission and the Head of the Adviser-Secretariat and the discussions on the draft held in the National Defence Committee. All amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission were accepted by consensus. As representative of the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Defence supports all amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission. During the proceedings of the draft, the National Defence Committee worked with other permanent committees: the Social Affairs Committee, the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. With the Committee on Culture, we specified the amendments to the University Act and the Law of the University of Applied Sciences, which contained concepts that were brought into line with the concepts of the draft Law on Defence Services. With the Social Affairs Committee, we specified the 188 draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and brought these two drafts into line with each other. With the Committee on Legal Affairs, we specified the activities of the military police and the amendment to the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces. With the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we aligned the definitions of the draft Civil Service Act and this draft. The date of entry into force of the draft under consideration will also be brought into line with the date of entry into force of the Civil Service Act. In addition, this draft is brought into line with the amendments made to the draft Defence Forces Service Act 172. The reasons for the amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee are annexed to the draft in the second reading explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 17 May this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda for the second reading of the 173nd session of the Riigikogu. The National Defence Committee decided on 28 May. a approve, by consensus, the text of the draft at second reading, the table of amendments and the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. The committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading of the draft law be stopped. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U371	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Question, Mr Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U372	Thank you. The content of the uncontested draft, as a young Member, I would simply like to explain why a separate law on the implementation of the Defence Service Act is still needed. There are more than 400 laws in Estonia, but there are few laws implementing them. The next item is the debate on another law relating to this subject. Isn't there too much legal confusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U373	Thank you very much. From the Commission's point of view, it would probably have been more confusing if we had all written it into the implementing provisions of a single law. Now, when it comes to amending other laws, there is a clear distinction. The next draft is the so-called 51 votes bill, which requires 51 votes to adopt this law. It makes sense to distinguish such a law again from others. The application is a one-off act and amends the legislative landscape. But the Defence Service Act remains a "table book" for all people working and serving in the Defence Forces. It contains just the points these people need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U374	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We are going to review the amendments to the draft law. There's 19. Let's start reviewing them. The first amendment is from the Committee on National Defence and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth proposals are from the Committee on National Defence and have been fully taken into account. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th proposals are from the National Defence Committee and have been fully taken into account. The proposals of 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 are from the Committee on National Defence and have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 173 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U375	The second reading of the draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Once again, please speak to Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U376	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you. I am before you with the draft law of 172 174. The National Defence Committee also discussed this draft in its ten sessions. This draft also relates to the implementation of the draft law on military service. The purpose of the draft is to bring the European Parliament Election Act, the Citizenship Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Peace Time National Defence Act, the Riigikogu Election Act, the War Age National Defence Act and the Presidential Election Act in line with the draft Defence Forces Service Act 172. The above mentioned so-called constitutional laws are mainly subject to terminological changes. The Committee on National Defence tabled amendments to the draft as the lead committee. All amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission were accepted by consensus. As representative of the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Defence supports all amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission. The aim of the amendments is to bring the definitions and entry into force of the draft law under discussion into line with the definitions and date of entry into force of the draft law on public service. In addition, this draft is brought into line with the amendments made to the draft Defence Forces Service Act 172. The draft also specified, for example, the issue of mobilization by providing for exceptions to active service, by introducing simplified regulation compared to day-to-day active service. The reasons for the amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee are set out in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. At the meeting of 17 May this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading. The National Defence Committee decided on 28 May. a approve, by consensus, the text of the draft at second reading, the table of amendments and the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the second draft 174. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U377	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There's 13. The first, second and third amendments have been tabled by the Committee on National Defence and have been fully taken into account. The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth proposals are from the Committee on National Defence and have been fully taken into account. The ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelve and thirteenth proposals are from the National Defence Committee and have been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of bill 174 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U378	The first reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection, the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and the State Fees Act is initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U379	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft before you brings the laws in force in Estonia into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on substances that deplete the ozone layer and creates prerequisites for the implementation of Regulation No 842/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council in Estonia. The draft concerns fluorinated greenhouse gases or so-called "F-gases." For example, the draft defines the concept of F-gases handler, specifies procedures for the certification of F-gases handling staff and companies, specifies reporting, etc. F-gases are man-made chemicals, which are part of greenhouse gases. In addition to the potential negative effects on human health, which may occur during inappropriate handling of fluorinated greenhouse gases (inhalation of gas vapours may cause cardiovascular and central nervous system diseases and affect these diseases, but may also result in suffocation, the skin exposure of these substances in the form of liquid may result in severe irritation and freezing of tissues exposed to the substance), significant effects of F-gases on climate change have been identified. Most of these substances have very high climate warming potential. These gases are therefore covered by the Kyoto Protocol's emission reduction commitment to the UNFCCC. Worldwide, i.e. also in Estonia, the use of F-gases is quite widespread. They are used, for example, as a refrigerant in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, as well as in heat pumps, foam products and solvents. Looking at tends, it can be said that the use of equipment containing these substances is increasing and has increased quite strongly and sharply, which is why the contribution of these substances to CO2 emissions, greenhouse gas emissions and thus to the CO2 emissions allocated to us is becoming increasingly important. The law on the protection of the ambient air will be updated in accordance with the draft before you on the basis of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on ozone-depleting substances, which entered into force at the end of 2009, which aims, together with the efforts undertaken under the Montreal Protocol, to stop the use of ozone-depleting substances from 1 January 2015. After that date, the use of ozone depleting substances is permitted only in laboratories, aircraft and defence forces. In the wider European Union, the use of F-gases is regulated by Regulation (EC) No 842/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and by the European Commission's ten implementing acts aimed at controlling and preventing the use of F-gases and thus reducing the emissions of F-gases in the atmosphere. One important problem that has not been solved in Estonia so far is the certification of staff and companies involved in the installation, maintenance, leakage control and collection of equipment containing F-gases. In comparison, our neighbouring countries have now transposed the F-gas requirements of the European Union and have managed to establish a certification system before us. The draft provides the basis for the implementation and full implementation of the F-gas regulations of the European Union in Estonia. As mentioned above, the procedures for granting professional or sub-vocational certificates and operating licences to staff involved in the handling of equipment and systems containing F-gases, as well as for issuing them, shall be determined. The issue of professional or sub-vocational certificates to staff members shall be carried out in accordance with the draft within the framework of the Professional Act and shall be made up of professional associations. As far as I know, their representatives have also been meeting with Parliament's Committee on the Environment. In the Commission, there was a question as to whether the professional associations were prepared for this change, and it was confirmed that this is indeed the case, that there was a willingness. The Chamber of Occupations, together with the SA, will issue professional or sub-vocational certificates to the personnel who passed the professional examination. Management permits will be issued to F-gases companies by the Environmental Board. The authorisation is necessary for the installation, maintenance, leakage control and collection of F-gases of stationary refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, heat pumps and also fire-fighting systems. There are approximately 315 companies in Estonia that need treatment permits. According to the draft, they also need to pay a state fee of EUR 268 for the examination of an application for a processing authorisation and a state fee of EUR 48 for the examination of an application for a change of authorisation. The law before you will set up a register of equipment and systems containing ozone-depleting substances and F-gases and their handling operations, which will then include three kilograms or more of F-gases or equipment and systems containing ozone-depleting substances and the quantities, types and handling operations of F-gases as part of the national information system. The database to be established will replace the maintenance obligation of the machine currently kept on paper. From now on, we will have a good overview of the use of both ozone-depleting substances and F-gases on the Estonian market. Data are also continuously available for reporting by Estonia to the United Nations and the European Commission, if necessary. In addition to the labelling requirements for equipment containing F-gases established by the European Commission, the ambient air protection law also includes the provision that equipment marketed in Estonia must be labelled in the future not just with relevant information, but must be in Estonian. The draft also sets out the authorities responsible for monitoring the handling of F-gases and ozone-depleting substances and lays down the liability rules that have so far been lacking. Dear Members, this is an important and necessary legislative amendment, which I would certainly ask you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U380	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. You have a question. My colleague, Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U381	Thank you. I have a very important question. When I play football, I often get injured and have to cool my leg with gaseous ice. Is this also dangerous for the environment, and do I need to ask permission from the Environmental Board to buy this jar in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U382	Thank you. If there is no plan to use a cooling unit containing more than three kilograms of F-gases, there is no need to do so. I must say that it is not likely to be a foot large enough to require such a large cooling unit, so there is no need to ask for a permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U383	No further questions. Thank you once again, Madam Minister for the Environment. Now I am waiting for the Chair of the Environment Committee, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U384	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Indeed, the Minister of the Environment described the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection and related laws in a beautiful way; he explained the main aspects of it. I'm not gonna repeat all this. In the Commission, we discussed this draft at two sittings quite thoroughly, but we have decided to bring this draft law into the Chamber unchanged. Consequently, the complaints that I should describe in an extra detail were not raised in the Commission. The next time this bill is in the Chamber (probably it will happen in the near future), we can talk more about it if there are more debates. However, I will say a few keywords that characterize this law. The questions in the Commission were mainly about the procedure to which this law opens the green path. For example, it has been said little that we are handing over a piece of the functions of our country from Tallinn to Brussels. In this connection, the question arose as to what this bureaucratic relationship is. I shall, for example, bring in methyl bromide, which should be used quickly in the event of any epidemic or mass damage, and grant its authorisation exceptionally. Previously, an urgent decision was needed to obtain, withdraw or enter this substance in Tallinn, and now it is necessary for the Ministry of the Environment to apply for authorisation from the European Commission. There were questions about how quickly it would be necessary to obtain this substance from third countries in an extreme case and what the procedure is. The people of the Ministry of the Environment reassured the members of the Riigikogu that everything was thought out. Probably in such cases, which can still occur very rarely, the problem will be solved quickly and bureaucratic obstacles between Tallinn and Brussels will not occur. I have already referred to the fact that the Environmental Board will grant treatment permits for equipment containing either three (home-using) or six or more kilograms of gas (industrially installed equipment). The question arose as to whether it was necessary to hire more officials in order to issue more licences. The increase in bureaucracy may not be as great as it seems at first glance, but one additional post at the Environmental Board is needed at first. We decided to come to the first reading of the draft law in the unchanged form of the Chamber, to propose to the large Chamber to finish the first reading and, if the first reading is accepted, to set the deadline for the submission of amendments by 4 June. 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U385	Thank you very much, Mr Lukas. No questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 232 amendments at 10 a.m. on 4 June. The first reading of Bill 232 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U386	The first reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U387	Good evening, President of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu! It is my great honour to introduce you to the Health Insurance Act and the Amendment of the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities by number 229. The amendment of the Health Insurance Act has two objectives and the amendment of the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities has one objective. One of the major changes to the Health Insurance Act is that medicines become cheaper for people. More specifically, it concerns medicinal products with a maximum reimbursement rate of EUR 12.79 per prescription, and, more specifically, those with a 50% discount. The second amendment concerns, in particular, the reception of a specialist doctor and the monitoring of chronic patients transferred to the family medical system, in order to release the resources of a specialist doctor, and so maybe reduce the queues in specialist medical care. The purpose of the Social Benefits Act for persons with disabilities is to introduce a disabled person's card into the Estonian legal space in order to ensure better protection of persons with disabilities. Now I'm going to be a little bit more specific. As a result of the first amendment, the current maximum benefit rate of EUR 12,79 for medicinal products with a 50% benefit will disappear, as I said, and the amount payable by the Health Insurance Fund will be calculated in the future from the difference between the basic own contribution rate and the marginal price or the price set out in the price agreement. Recipes for 50%-advantaged medicines make up nearly half of all prescriptions. First, medicines are cheaper for patients who, for any reason, cannot use a cheaper similar medicine or who do not fit within the restricted target group of patients for whom a higher favourable rate has been established. Some medicines that do not have a preferential rate higher than 50% will also be cheap. According to current calculations, people's own contribution to the purchase of medicines with a 50% discount is reduced by around 22% on the average cost of a prescription. For example, if a two-month treatment currently pays 42 euros to a patient with a maximum benefit, it will cost 29 euros to the patient in the future without the maximum benefit. In the case of medicines at a higher price, the win is even greater. The second change has been prepared in cooperation with family doctors. We have proposed that the role of the 'gate watch' role of family doctors be increased and thus reduce the workload of specialised doctors, which would create the possibility of shortening the waiting lists for specialist doctors. The content of the proposal is that in the case of chronic illness, the patient cannot contact a specialist doctor without a referral letter from the family doctor. Simply put, the day-to-day monitoring of chronic patients falls within the competence of a family doctor, which creates the possibility of releasing specialist medical resources. The third amendment (I thank the Committee on Social Affairs for its very constructive cooperation here), which was made before the first reading, concerns that in the future the Social Insurance Institution will issue a disability card to a disabled person who does not have a pension certificate if he so wishes. This allows a person to prove the severity and duration of the disability and does not have to carry a decision issued by the Social Insurance Board on this on a continuous basis. Under the current law, disability can be demonstrated either by an expert decision or by a pension certificate. The pension certificate is only issued to persons who have already reached pensionable age. For disabled children and people of working age who do not have at least 40% loss of working capacity, the only possibility of proof of disability is an expert opinion. The Social Insurance Institution has confirmed that they are ready to start issuing cards from s. a 1st September. This is particularly necessary for disabled children to benefit from the travel allowance at the beginning of the school year. Hence the need for this draft to be dealt with quickly. The other provisions of the Act will enter into force on 1 October 2012. We thank you in advance, in the hope that the Riigikogu will approve a slightly faster pace of procedure, so that the bill can really be adopted as a law before Midsummer Day, in order to provide disabled children with the card necessary to formalise the travel allowance at the beginning of the school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U388	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. There are no questions for you. I call a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Maret Maripuu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U389	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed draft No 229 on 10 May. The draft introduced us to the Minister of Social Affairs. For the second time, the draft was discussed in the Commission on 17 May. The committee then decided to consensually submit the draft to the Riigikogu plenary session as amended. The Minister of Social Affairs has already spoken about the recitals; he has presented the draft very thoroughly. I'm not gonna say it again. Allow me to inform you only of the procedural decisions adopted by the Commission: the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Assembly that the first reading be closed and to request that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 14 June. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U390	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. No questions for you either. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 229 amendments on 4 June at 14 p.m. The first reading of Bill 229 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U391	First reading of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I beg the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U392	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to ensure equal treatment between self-employed workers and spouses involved in their activities. The same social benefits as a self-employed person must be guaranteed to a spouse who participates in the activities of a self-employed person. In order to obtain social security for the spouse, the self-employed person registers the taxable persons of the spouse participating in the activity of his/her company and undertakes to pay the social security contribution for him/her at the monthly rate, which is essentially the minimum wage. The draft also amends three laws governing the conditions of insurance cover: the Health Insurance Act, the State Pension Insurance Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. According to the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, a spouse participating in the activities of a self-employed person is entitled to both medical treatment and temporary incapacity benefit. According to the amendment to the State Pension Insurance Act, the payment of social tax will result in an increase in the pension insurance status of the self-employed spouse and an increase in the annual coefficients of the insured person. As a result of changes to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, a spouse who has ceased to participate in the activities of a self-employed company is registered as unemployed and will receive unemployment benefit, as is the case with a self-employed person. In addition to the above-mentioned laws, amendments are made to the technical notes of both the Gender Equality Act and the Equal Treatment Act. The draft is planned to enter into force. a to 1 August. The date has been set taking into account the transposition deadline laid down in the Directive, which is 5 August 2012. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U393	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions for you. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, Yana Toomi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U394	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Social Tax Act initiated by the Government and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 7 May. a. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kairi Ani, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Ülle Jordan, Head of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Käthlin Sander, Adviser to the Gender Equality Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kristiina Rääk, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kristina-Valeria Tobias, Head of the Legal Department of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. We had three questions that we were discussing. The first question we asked was how many people this bill concerns. There are no statistical data on this, but it can still be said that this figure is very small, close to zero, as we were told. The second question was how much it costs to transpose this directive. It turned out that although interest is close to zero, it still costs the Ministry of Social Affairs approximately EUR 15000 and the Tax and Customs Board approximately EUR 2000. The third question concerned the registration of a spouse who is involved in the activities of a self-employed company as unemployed. In this case, a person must choose between two statuses. It became clear that he really needed to make a choice as to whether his spouse would secure him or whether he could be unemployed. The Commission took the following decisions by consensus: to propose that the draft be sent to plenary for first reading on 30 May 2012, to close the first reading, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 31 May 2012 and to appoint Ms Yana Toom, vice-president of the Commission as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U395	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 222 amendments by 31 May. 6 p.m. First reading of Bill 222 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U396	The first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Acceptance to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund' begins. For a presentation, please, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U397	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft decision is to give consent to the increase of Estonia's quota in the International Monetary Fund and to authorise Eesti Pank to carry out the activities necessary to increase its participation. The Member State's quota shall not be altered until it has been accepted by the Member State and payment has been made. It is up to the Riigikogu to decide whether to grant consent. The quota, or national contributions, shall be reviewed at least every five years. The quota formula takes into account the size of the country's economy and reserves, the openness and vulnerability of the economy. Overall, the distribution of IMF quotas reflects the overall balance of power in the global economy. In the course of the 2010 quota reform, it was decided to double their overall volume from 238.4 billion SDRs to around 476.8 billion SDRs. At the same time as the change in the total volume, the quota shares are reallocated to more than 6% of the total quota volume. This will improve the position of underrepresented and dynamically developing countries according to the quota formula. With the consent of the Riigikogu, the Estonian quota would increase by 149.7 million SDRs or 175 million euros to 243.6 million SDRs or approximately 284.7 million euros. Why is the quota important? This is the main element of the state's financial and organisational relations with the IMF. The quota shall determine the voting rights of the Member State and the possibilities for borrowing from the IMF. I recall that in the early years of independence, Estonia received a loan from the IMF to support economic reforms. The possibility of borrowing from the IMF and the adequate size of loans are certainly important for the economic and financial stability of a small country exposed to external shocks. Following the increase in the quota, Estonian voting rights will increase to 0.077%. However, a small part of the vote does not mean isolation or editing alone. We are part of a united North Baltic electorate and are involved in shaping joint European positions. In this strong cooperation, the weight of our vote is considerably greater. The contributions resulting from the increase in the Estonian quota are organised by Eesti Pank. The quota will remain part of the official foreign reserves of Eesti Pank, i.e. in case of serious balance of payments problems, the central bank will also be able to use the funds placed in the IMF itself. Quota increases will enter into force if at least 70% of the total quota volume is agreed by the IMF Member States and amendments to the IMF Statute have been approved, which will be discussed in the debate on the next draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U398	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have a question. Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U399	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. We all look forward to the decision of the Supreme Court regarding the compatibility of another financial institution with our constitution. Please briefly explain the decision-making procedure in the International Monetary Fund compared to the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U400	Thank you. That's a painful question. Compared to the ESM, which you were referring to, Estonia's veto right in the IMF is completely non-existent. We have been in the IMF for twenty years, we have received a loan from it, we have made different decisions at the level of the Riigikogu. There is a simple majority of loans, but there is almost always a consensus in the ESM. In a very exceptional situation, however, a majority of 85% may be required for lending. There is a simple majority in the IMF, but no one has raised the question of whether this is contrary to the Constitution. The only nuance here is that we joined the IMF a few weeks before the Constitution came into force. But there's an answer to that. For example, if there were a contradiction, we would have an obligation to bring IMF membership into line with the Constitution, which would essentially mean leaving the IMF. However, the Riigikogu has repeatedly confirmed by its decisions that membership of the IMF is of national importance to us. So I don't know what's gonna happen. I really don't know what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U401	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Mr Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U402	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 15 May, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Agreed for an increase in the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund'. This was the first reading of the draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As the initiator's representative, Martin Põder, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft to us. In short, once again, I will talk about the purpose of the bill. The aim is to give consent to the increase of the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund and to empower Eesti Pank to carry out operations to increase the quota. In short, I will also talk about the questions and issues that were at issue in the Commission. Members of the Commission were interested in financial contributions, periods of time and procedures. The representative of the Ministry explained that Eesti Pank is responsible for increasing its participation in the IMF. The Estonian quota will be increased by 175 million euros, 25% of which will have to be actually paid and 75% will be deposited with the central bank of a particular member. The contribution shall be paid within 30 days of the entry into force of the amendments to the statutes and acceptance of the increase in the quota. The Commission was interested in whether this had any impact on the state budget. A representative of the Ministry said that there is no budgetary impact. These are off-balance sheet items, they do not affect the debt burden and the quota will remain part of Eesti Pank's official foreign reserves. Interested in the size of the quota, including in Estonia. We are under-represented there and, with the redistribution of quota shares, more than 6% of the total quota volume is protected by the voting rights of poor countries. The Commission asked whether Estonia even needed to participate in such funds, banks, various money market instruments. The answer was that these were classic firewalls and, in particular, the IMF, with the aim of developing democracy and strengthening stability. Interest was expressed as to when the increase in the specific quota would take effect. The answer was that the deadline for accepting an increase in the quota is 30 June 2012 and that the increase in the quota will take effect once the Member States representing 70% of the total quota volume have given their consent and amendments to the statutes have entered into force. There was also interest in the frequency with which quotas in the IMF are generally increased. The answer was that the need for an increase in the quota would normally be reviewed every five years and an adjustment would be possible. So far, for example, quotas have not been reduced; IMF capital has not been reduced so far by reducing quotas. It was also noted that in the early years Estonia also used IMF assistance itself. The principle of solidarity is important. An example was given of the last time when, for example, Latvia has used the IMF and has done so very successfully. These were the questions that arose in the Commission. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday, 30 May today, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 1 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U403	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 230 amendments on 1 June at 4 p.m. First reading of Bill 230 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U404	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the waitress, once again, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U405	Mr President, the hall of the Riigikogu and the remaining worker bees! The changes before you concern the management of the IMF. The size and structure of the IMF shareholders, as well as the board of directors representing them permanently in Washington, will be specified with a view to making the management of the Fund more flexible and with a view to increasing the legitimacy of the Fund's decision-making process. First, the directors representing seven or more countries are allowed to appoint additional deputy directors. At present, each member of the Supervisory Board, or the Director, has one deputy. This should improve the opportunity for voters representing many countries to be represented in a worthy way. Secondly, the size and composition of the Board of Directors will be specified. In order to achieve a better representation of developing countries in the IMF Board of Directors, the representation of developed Europe will be reduced by two seats. It is also agreed that the composition of the Board of Directors will be maintained as 24 members, but the Board of Shareholders (the level of central banks and finance ministers) will continue to have the possibility to increase or decrease the number of executive directors. The change concerning Europe reflects the change in power ratios in the world. The completed director chairs of the developed European countries are currently eight on a permanent basis in the IMF Council, which was too high compared to non-European countries. The countries of the European Union have agreed to the amendments. It should be noted that the younger members of the European Union, such as Poland, who will be able to take part in the rotation of the position of director of their electorate in the future, are likely to benefit from some withdrawal from the developed Europe. However, the final arrangements within the electorate have not yet been concluded. Thirdly, all the members of the Board of Directors, which, according to the Statute, are 20 Executive Directors and one Director-General, will be elected. In the meantime, the five largest quota Member States appointed their Executive Director themselves and 15 Executive Directors were elected by the remaining Member States. There is a theoretical possibility that a superpower who has so far had a purely owning chair will have smaller constituents on the Council. The implementation of the Act does not lead to financial obligations for the Republic of Estonia or to direct changes in daily relations with the IMF. In order for amendments to the IMF Statute to enter into force, the amendments must be approved by three fifths of the IMF Member States, which hold 85% of the total number of votes. I would point out that this is not about the loan decisions that were the last question in the debate on the previous draft. In Estonia, the approval of the Riigikogu is also required here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U406	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. There are no questions for you. I call Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as the next rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U407	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Happy members of the Riigikogu who are still in this hall! This is a draft law approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund. Its first reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was on 15 May. a. Martin Põder, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the representative of the initiator. In short, I reiterate the objective of the draft proposal, which is to approve amendments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which reform the IMF governance framework, in order to make IMF governance more flexible and to increase the legitimacy of the decision-making process. It is considered necessary to specify the size and structure of the Board of Directors. There were not many questions in the Commission on this issue. First of all, the question was whether it would be possible to propose amendments to the statutes if Estonia wanted to amend the statutes. The answer was that the agreement itself has been ratified, can be proposed, but wait for the 'next process'. There's nothing more to add right now. It was intrigued whether each country had one vote in the selection of directors. The answer was that the number of votes depends on the participation. There was also interest in why the number of directors was just 20. It was said that this was a compromise to ensure that the Council was able to work. The Ministry's representative also said that by a majority of 85%, the Board of Shareholders has the right to change the number of directors. In fact, it was noted that the US veto rights are being preserved as 16 to 17% of the IMF's voting rights are in the hands of the United States. There was also an interest in representing Estonia in the IMF. Andres Sutt, senior advisor to the International Monetary Fund's Nordic-Baltic electorate's office, replied. In addition to Estonia, the Northern Baltic electorate includes Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. The Commission also took decisions: to place the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 30 May, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 1 June. All the decisions were consensual. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-30_U408	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. No questions for you either. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 231 amendments on 1 June. 4 p.m. First reading of Bill 231 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 21.25 p.m.
