ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 18th working week. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over to the Riigikogu a report on the activities of the Special Committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu, which covers the period from May 2011 to June 2012. In that time...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U3	I'm sorry, waitress, I'm interrupting you for a moment! Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the waitress. There's a lot of noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U4	Mr President, I don't care whether my colleagues are listening or not. I'll report what I have to report, and there's no need to listen. Compared to previous years, the Commission's work has become more open. Namely, our sessions can be watched live on the Internet and later these recordings can be seen on our website. A total of 53 meetings have taken place over this period, which is half as many as the previous Commission during the previous working period. We have processed and discussed 40 audit reports and two reviews. It has been a pleasure that all the issues have been resolved by consensus in the Commission, there have been no such things that would have hindered our work in any way. But if anyone wants to know the details, the Riigikogu now has an overview of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U5	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U6	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I will hand over a draft law that wishes to amend § 151 of the Penal Code in such a way as to bring this Estonian law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and with pan-European tendencies and norms. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that incitement to national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. However, pursuant to § 151 of the Penal Code in force, a person can be punished for hatred, violence and incitement to discrimination only if there is a risk to his or her life, health or property. It should be noted here that the relevant regulation came into the Estonian Code in 2006. Before that, incitement to hatred was criminally punishable. This provision was actively used in Estonia to fight against incitement to social hatred, especially through the Internet network. The amendment was accompanied by the fact that we now need a real threat to human health or life to punish. At the time, the explanatory memorandum of the draft law explained that the purpose of the amendment was to prevent the imposition of a penalty for expressing its opinion. But now we are in a situation where no one is really being punished for incitement to hatred, although we know very well that Estonia is not quite free of it. For example, when we look at the Internet, we find numerous incitements to hatred. I'll hand over the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Let's get to the messages. On Wednesday 13 June, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, I announce that the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 comms are registered, 12 are missing. I will clarify today's agenda. On the seventh item, namely the second reading of the draft law supplementing the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission. On the ninth item, which is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's "Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, Priit Toobal, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. On the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union', the Member of the Riigikogu, Kaia Iva, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U8	Let's get to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Any requests? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U9	Mr President, please give me three more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U10	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, I am already the fourth time in front of you on this bill and you are probably all well aware of what this bill is about. But just in case, I'm going to go over it anyway. With this bill, we want to solve one problem where the state has behaved extremely rudely and unfairly towards its own citizens. A person has been considered an Estonian citizen for 15 years, but at one point he has been told that your reading as a citizen was a mistake, in fact you have never been a citizen, and now you can apply for a residence permit to legalize your stay in this country in any way. Those of you who have had to explain this situation to your foreign colleagues know that European politicians, especially representatives of various human rights organisations, are shaking their heads and do not understand how such a thing is possible in 21st century Europe. In fact, the majority of the Estonian public has not understood this, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs' claim that there is nothing to do since the law is such, sounded quite hollow. After all, the laws are still for people, so that everyone would be happy to live in Estonia, not to protect a country with a big star from people. During the process of solving this problem, the various parties have tried to take on honor and fame to some extent. I have also done so by telling Jaak Allik's letter to the Chancellor of Justice and the Minister of the Interior last September. The Chancellor of Justice himself has spoken about his year-long procedure, Yana Toom has talked about how his letter to the Minister of the Interior led the problem to the media. We all feel a little more important in this regard, but a good journalist on the North Coast, Erik Kalda, drew my attention a few months ago to the fact that this problem was already recorded on the North Coast in October 2005, when a young woman lost her citizenship because of a mistake by orphanage officials. At the time, the office of the Minister of Population promised that a beautiful solution would be found. In reality, however, the woman did not receive any help from the state. So the problem has been known to the public for over five years, and now, hopefully, we will solve it. I'm just the first round here, so I can't tell you why it's been so long, but in any case, in the future, the Ministry of the Interior would expect much greater activity in the exercise of legislative initiative. The procedure for this draft has not gone, as you know, without any real problems. At second reading, the initiators had a fundamental dispute with the Ministry of the Interior and therefore with the majority of the Commission as to whether the draft should give priority to the efficiency of the administration or the protection of the rights of persons (this is my formulation). The initiators have supported the European approach that sometimes, when it is necessary to achieve a better realisation of citizens' rights, it is justified to make the procedure more difficult for officials. As has been said, the dispute has been fundamental. Figuratively speaking, do we prefer having an innocent prisoner or two criminals at large? We believe that, in terms of the realisation of fundamental rights, as far as citizenship is concerned, it is firmly on the other side that the rules on the withdrawal of citizenship should stipulate that this is almost impossible. If a person has been an Estonian citizen for 15 years, in 99% of cases he should continue to be an Estonian citizen. In the case of this draft, the dispute finally resolved in a way that suits us and, if some points of dispute are excluded, the content of the draft is ultimately protective to people. However, I think it would be worth considering a broader social issue, because the last few years and months have shown that both politicians and, to a large extent, our public think a little too little about protecting the fundamental rights of individuals. Some state interests are often preferred to individual interests. This concerns both the authorisation to pursue without the permission of the court, the reduction of immunity for members of the Riigikogu, and the failure of the Prime Minister to understand the concerns of protestors against ACTA about the preservation of Internet freedom and Internet privacy. Many initiatives and laws are likely to facilitate some sort of protection of national interests, but rarely think about their impact on the individual. In addition to the substantive problems, ignoring these issues clearly categorizes us into a so-called Eastern European or post-Soviet club, which we do not want to belong to. However, in the case of this draft, we have generally reached a European result and, as the author and initiator of the draft, I would ask the Riigikogu to support this draft as a result of the great work and compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U12	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vocalist, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U13	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to a colleague's performance and I got the feeling that this bill is a big nice cherry on the cake. That we solved the problem and finally the problem is broken. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I'm sorry to have to repeat this again here, but there's a certain contradiction in the bill. Of one thing I have already spoken about, this is not my concern, because I do not have Estonian citizenship obtained by birth. This is your concern, ladies and gentlemen, because this bill takes the first step towards not allowing people who have acquired Estonian citizenship to have the citizenship of another country as well. That's one problem. The second concerns naturalised citizens, namely the children of people who have been deprived of citizenship for some time because of an official's mistake. If these people have children born during this period, then those children who should have been Estonian citizens after birth are not. They are citizens of another country, and this injustice will not be eliminated. So it's not a cherry on the cake. A colleague said on the draft we are discussing today that better half an egg than an empty shell, and he must be accepted. This bill really is half an egg, and I am very sorry that we occasionally produce these half eggs in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U14	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. We shall proceed to the final vote. Draft 164 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, so at least 51 votes in favour. We therefore need to carry out a presence check. First of all, the one-minute signal we're calling people together with. Incoming check, please! Eighty-eight delegates have been registered as present, and 13 are missing. Let's get to the vote. Can I go to the vote? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 164. Please take a stand and vote. Eighty-eight parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, and no one was against or impartial. Bill 164 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U15	We will go to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre' presented by the Committee on the Environment. I would like to ask Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The composition of the Riigikogu has changed. Mart Laar returned to the Riigikogu and Andrus Saare left the Riigikogu as a result. Andrus Saare was a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation, which was appointed by us. Now we have to decide on the assembly of this foundation council, i.e. the appointment of a new member of the Riigikogu in place of Andrus Saare, and the Environment Committee has submitted a draft to that effect. We propose that Aivar Kokk, Member of the Riigikogu, be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation. The proposal was preceded by the submission of candidates by members of the Riigikogu. Two candidates were nominated: the Group of the Social Democratic Party presented the nomination of Rainer Vakra and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Aivar Koka. Aivar Kokk received 6 votes in favour and, as I have already said, the Committee on the Environment will propose him as a candidate. We call on you today to support this decision so that the Foundation Council can continue its work in full composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U17	Thank you. We go to questions and answers. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U18	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. Recently, it has been possible to read in the press how Aivar Kokk has been forced to recruit fishermen from Peipsi. For some people, he went through a background check, but it's happened and it's a fact. Did the Committee on the Environment discuss what could guarantee that Aivar Kokk would not use his KIC council member status for further compulsory recruitment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U19	No, the Committee on the Environment did not discuss this issue. Two candidates were nominated, the Committee on the Environment voted and no longer held a debate on the nominations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U20	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U21	Did the Committee on the Environment not appeal to the IRL Group to reconsider who the IRL candidate for the KIC Council could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U22	No, the Committee on the Environment did not address the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union. When this group proposed this, you had not received a newspaper article that was disturbing to you, and this issue was not further discussed later. However, I think that these two topics are too much enthusiasm for party work and the willingness to support regionally balanced development could be kept separate. Aivar Kokk is the chairman of the local government support group of the Riigikogu, he has been a well-known governor of the country and he certainly stands for the regional development of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U23	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U24	Thanks! Tõnis, how convincing did Aivar Koka seem to me to explain the role of criminals in the IRL? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U25	We can no longer talk about this proportion, because the political party's board excluded those mentioned in the press from the political party. In the meantime, how they were enthusiasticly joined to make Estonia better, this was not discussed by the Committee on the Environment, and there is no reason to discuss it now. These people are excluded from the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U26	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Do you think, in the interests of clarity, that the Commission should have discussed these shadows?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U28	As I said, the Committee on the Environment has launched the nominations by addressing the political groups. The political groups made their proposals before it came to the press. The Committee on the Environment has not dealt with this further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U29	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Tõnis, in the light of recent press articles, do you think that the ethical face of Aivar Koka still meets the expectations of society to set him up for this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U31	As I said, Aivar Kokk is an active person and his activities in Jõgeva County have certainly made people think more about Estonia's future. However, if something has happened in Jõgeva County, it does not always have the same connection to Aivar Koka. The Bureau of the Party discussed this matter sufficiently. Aivar Kokk considers that it was a mistake for people mentioned in the press to be part of an intermediate party, and by doing so he has assessed this recruitment activity, which was not personally carried out by him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U32	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U33	Thank you. As Chairman of the IRL Group, I am very pleased that colleagues in the Riigikogu are monitoring the internal life of our party with great attention. Thank you very much. However, the IRL Group has not considered it necessary to discuss this issue again; we have made our decision and proposed it. And I have a proposal that the Committee on the Environment, as well as the Chamber, deal with the topical issue, not with the organisational issues of the IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U34	It's like there was no question. Let's keep going. Was there a question? Well, I'll ask the waitress to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U35	I think it is right to focus on the current issue and to approve the nomination submitted by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U36	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U37	I'd like to focus on the subject and start a fight with a roller coaster. Namely, the second candidate, Rainer Vakral, has an environmental higher education and is a pretty significant specialist in the issues that the Environmental Investment Centre must resolve. He is now no longer a very classic member of the opposition. Hence my question: why does the Rainer Vakra Commission think that it is silly and not fit to be a member of the Environmental Investment Centre Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U38	There was actually no discussion to compare the candidates. All members of the Committee on the Environment had their opinion expressed in the vote. I would point out that the Environmental Investment Centre aims, among other things or even the first thing, to carry out an administrative task under the Environmental Charges Act. The administrative task is one of the main tasks in the work of the Environmental Investment Centre, therefore also in the work of the Council. Aivar Kokal certainly has long experience in administrative matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U39	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U40	Thank you, Madam President. While it has already been for the debate on the candidates, I would like to say a few words in favour of Mr Koka. By supporting him, we support, as this sounded, one of the best members of the IRL Group. I am sure that wherever it works in the future, it will never be boring, whether it be a relapse or a fishermen. I think I understand why this was not discussed in depth in the Commission. Is it so that we can enjoy this discussion in this hall a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U41	As I said, the Committee on the Environment discussed this matter in good time, and then the members of the committee, of which an equal share is known to belong to the opposition, did not feel so excited about it. The opposition did not raise any particular questions in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U42	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As the replies showed here, there was no substantive debate in the Commission, yet a choice was made. My question is: did the candidates themselves get the floor in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U44	Candidates did not present their programme in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U45	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U46	Thank you. Based on Kaia Iva's attention, I want to ask you, Tõnis, if you agree with her. If one of the members of the Riigikogu, on whom we should decide in the sense that he is going to fill one of the important places of public interest mentioned by the Riigikogu, has acted in a questionable way, whether it is the hidden funding of a party or the strange influence of the party's election result, is it only the internal affairs of this particular party or could it have a wider public interest and influence our decisions in this Chamber of Riigikogu as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U47	That's a good question! All public information should certainly influence the decision-making of the members of the Riigikogu, and I believe that they are affected by the life of Estonia as a whole. I hope that all of you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, will be very sensitive to all information concerning Estonian society. But in this case, we have not, firstly, received enough information that these specific recruitments have been dealt with personally by Aivar Kokk. After all, this issue has not actually been dealt with on a large scale. His identity is mentioned in a few titles. Secondly, the work of the Environmental Investment Centre Council, as I said, the performance of administrative tasks and the pursuit of regional balance throughout Estonia, is not really an issue. If the issue had been dealt with longer and Aivar Koka's involvement in these issues would have disrupted the general public and would have been actually identified, then perhaps we would be discussing matters in the Committee on the Environment. But the current relatively brief association that has been in the press should not receive so much attention in this Chamber. All the more so since Aivar Kokk himself is that, in the meantime, a series of criminals really felt that they had to realise themselves through the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, quite clearly condemned themselves at a party presidency meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, When discussing draft decisions, each member of the Riigikogu can ask only one question. That is why I can no longer give the floor to those who register. Are there any other questions, those members of the Riigikogu who have not yet asked? No more questions. Thank you, Tõnis Lukas. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let's get to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appointment of a new member', tabled by the Committee on the Environment, draft 244. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U49	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. To this end, there is an overview of the activities of the Chancellor of Justice in 2011, provided by Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder. I remind the members of the Riigikogu that everyone can ask an oral question to the rapporteur and only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Parliament, For the last four years of the crisis, we have talked very much, discussed and debated about money and, of course, the lack of it. This topic is really important. However, it should not be forgotten that society, the uniter of the state, is still the common non-material values of the principles enshrined in our constitution, particularly in its preamble and general provisions, and I believe that they should also apply during the crisis. These are principles that must apply equally and fairly to the Clever-Ants in society as well as to the Georges of the North of Hell. One of the most important constitutional values is the principle that the people, in particular through Parliament, decide on important matters of state life. This principle is not, in my view, a mere declaration, and I hope that it will not be turned into an empty declaration either. The damage or destruction of important values that unite society can also harm national statehood. The Constitution instructs the Chancellor of Justice to give the Riigikogu every year an overview of the legal situation, figuratively speaking, of his face last year. So far, I have given my annual speech in the autumn, but in the light of the recent legislative amendment, I will stand before you this year and probably continue to stand in the spring. To be honest, spring is a much more frequent time than autumn to take stock of last year. I can make an assessment of the situation on the basis of my daily work and observations by my advisors. In the written annual review delivered on 29 May, you will find a summary and references to the cases I solved last year. In my speech today, I will address more general but more fundamental observations. I say right away that I am most disturbed by the fact that we are increasingly estranged from § 1 of the Constitution, according to which Estonia is a democratic state where the highest authority is exercised by the people. We are moving away from one of the fundamental values of our society, the basis of the functioning of the state. The highest power of the Estonian people was agreed at the referendum in June 1992, where we adopted the constitution that would become 20 this year. At the same time, it was determined how the people would exercise power. It takes place through citizens with the right to vote through the periodic elections and referendums of the Riigikogu. The day-to-day power is thus exercised in the name of the people by the Riigikogu and in accordance with § 3 of the Constitution in a manner and order determined by the people. In other words, elected representatives of the people are not free to exercise power, are bound and obliged by the constitution and responsibility to the electorate. If the most fundamental decisions that guide state life are taken directly by the people, for example, the chapter of general provisions of the Constitution can only be amended in referendums, then all other decisions that are important for the Estonian state must be made by the Riigikogu according to the Constitution and cannot be delegated to the executive authority or to anyone else. It should be pointed out here that certain decisions have been taken by the people in the referendum on the Act supplementing the Constitution by entrusting the European Union. However, they cannot concern the fundamental principles of the Constitution. What is important, which the Riigikogu must decide, is partly written directly in the Constitution, is partly derivable from the Constitution's provision and meaning. Without doubt, in a democratic rule of law, all issues relating to the limitation of fundamental rights and freedoms are important. For example, how much and under what conditions a tracking authority can monitor a person's activities, his home and office, install storage devices there, and, in combination, violate the right to privacy and property, as well as for what purposes and in what way a person's property may be expropriated and thereby infringe his or her fundamental right to property, but possibly also his or her right to home integrity or business. The Constitution also attaches importance to the granting of state loans and the imposition of other financial obligations and taxes on the state. The more important this decision is, the more direct it must be with the people. As stated above, the most fundamental decisions according to the Constitution are made by the people in referendums and the following questions, which I have mentioned above, must be made by the representative of the people, i.e. the Riigikogu. This is the nature and characteristic of parliamentary democracy. If decisions are to be taken by the Riigikogu, this is the competence of the Riigikogu's plenary session. According to our constitution, the decision of the Riigikogu on important matters cannot be delegated to one of its committees. The Riigikogu commission, no matter how sounding its name, does not replace the Riigikogu plenary. Despite the Constitution, the trend is spreading in Estonia, as the representatives of the people decide less and less. Important decisions are also delegated to the executive power, some parliamentary committee, a private entity, an international organisation. As early as last year, I referred to the case of the European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) that the Riigikogu, when assisting other countries in the European debt crisis, or when giving assistance vouchers in the future, must comply that it, i.e. the Riigikogu's plenary, retains the power to determine, among other things, the conditions for assistance, as they have a strong influence on the realisation of Estonia's financial obligations. It is therefore not enough for the Riigikogu to decide that Estonia is irreversibly and unconditionally prepared to contribute more than a billion euros to the European rescue plan if it leaves it to the Riigikogu's committee to agree more precise rescue conditions or even outside Estonia. Such a decision would not be in line with the Riigikogu's obligation to decide all important matters concerning the Estonian state. In 2011 the Riigikogu followed my position on the European Financial Stability Fund. However, in February 2012, the representative of the Government of the Republic signed the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism in Brussels, according to which the Riigikogu will refrain from taking decisions on the terms of assistance under the urgent procedure in the ESM. In my opinion, this is contrary to the Constitution, because the decision-making power on a very important issue would go too far for our people. However, if accepted, it would be a major reorganisation of § 1 and § 3 of the Constitution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this can also open the way for other issues to deviate from parliamentary democracy. However, this solution cannot automatically be ruled out because the Constitution is a living document which must be furnished in the context of changed social circumstances and values. But have circumstances and values changed so much? Does the people want to give up their decision - making power or to distance themselves from decisions? Can this be done by radically interpreting constitutional norms differently, or should the Constitution be amended to this end? Looking at pan-European trends, it can be said that the role of parliaments has been somewhat reduced compared to the time of 10 to 20 years ago, and more decisions are taken at the level of the executive or somebody else, such as the European Commission. The phenomenon of democracy, or the power of the people, according to the letters, but in reality the relationship between power and decisions with the people is far removed, has become known as post-democracy, a term which is debatable in itself and which I myself am not very much in favour of. The reduction of democracy in countries' commitments to property and helping banks or other countries is often justified by the urgent need to make decisions requiring professional expertise in such situations. If nothing else, in any case, national Parliaments are slow in taking decisions, and such bypassing parliaments is justified by results. In the context of these European stability mechanisms, it is argued that swift action, i.e. bypassing parliaments, will save the single European currency and ensure financial stability. Will the result justify the deficit of the democratic process? At the FIDE conference held some time ago, Professor Joseph Weiler, who said there, modifying Max Weber's approach, said that the social sciences generally see three types of options for legitimizing decision-making and power. First, through a democratic process, second, through results and third, through a certain idea, through a dream. Weiler believes that the decision-making process in the European Union has never been very democratic, but the Union has so far been relatively effective in legitimising itself through its results. Now, however, the nations are questioning both the coming and the idea of Europe's power and success. Although accepted in social sciences, the legitimacy of decision-making and power through results and ideas is a risky activity. If the result doesn't come or the everyday worries no longer leave a place for ideals, the people may no longer accept decisions. Again, in the context of the stability mechanisms, if deciding whether to pass by the people within them will certainly guarantee the results, i.e. financial stability in Europe and prosperity in Estonia, then it is believed that no one can give such guarantees. So there is still the first possibility of legitimisation, which has been recognised for many years: classic legitimisation through a democratic process. If the people themselves decide and make informed choices, they are the will of the people themselves and therefore acceptable in a situation where the decision does not result in the expected success. So the question has arisen: if there has been a tendency in the last decade to reduce the decision-making power of the people, whether this is the right way or whether it should still be the people as the source of legitimisation of important decisions. On the one hand, I have reservations and doubts about the sustainability of results and legitimacy through the idea. Secondly, I would point out that Articles 1 and 3 of the Constitution provide for legitimacy through a democratic process. Thirdly, I have not noticed in Estonian society the desire of people to no longer decide and delegate their power. In my understanding, the people, the voters, have not expressed a desire to take away the right to decide on important matters of state life from the Riigikogu and to give it to someone else, such as some technopath. From the statements made by the people and businesses who have approached me, I see a belief in the Constitution and that democratic processes are still working. So I find that as long as the people have not changed § 1 and § 3 of the Constitution or decided to delegate their power on certain matters, important matters of state life must be decided by the Riigikogu. I admit that by the law supplementing the Constitution, the people have empowered the European Union to decide certain things, but only in a part that does not concern the fundamental principles of the Constitution. The above-mentioned financial stability packages are not affected by the power conferred by the Act supplementing the Constitution, not only because they are not formally European Union law, but also because the Law supplementing the Constitution did not empower an international organisation outside the European Union whose decision-making process is much less democratic than that of the European Union. To conclude, although some authors claim that post-democratic tendencies have begun to spread in Europe (which could refer to the writings of Jürgen Habermas), the Constitution of the Riigikogu must be taken into account and remain with democracy. If there is a desire to change the role of the people as supreme authority in deciding the matters of state life, then the people must be allowed to decide on this in a referendum. Certainly, the Riigikogu and the executive must not roll over the people and the constitution with a slogan that, following democratic processes, we will be left alone, without allies. At this point, I would like to remind you of the former privatisation of Narva Power Plants. It was also then that a frightening emotional view was spread that if we do not accept unconditional privatisation in this form, we will not be able to enter either the European Union or NATO. What message do we give in this way from our country? Doesn't it remind you of a hysterical partner who panictically fears the breakup of a relationship and is willing to sacrifice everything for it? In my understanding, intimidation and hysteria should not be a tool for organising state life. It is also worth recalling that the IMF was allegedly opposed to the introduction of our own money, but we did not follow this important and wrong view and we used our money, even though we were predicted to fail and fail. If we can keep society united and let the people decide in an informed way on important issues, the people will also take responsibility and be wise. We need a society where values are respected. Our constitutional human society is not just a technocratic mechanical formation. We do not think it is right that the fundamental regulation of the details of social life is at the forefront of trying to push the fundamental values into the background and to comply with them. We do not need to strive for formal organisation of society, this is a strict system of prohibitions and commands where most human movements are regulated, normised. This total regulation and the restriction of fundamental rights would also not be allowed by our constitution. Secondly, is it the order society to strive for? Writer Stanislaw Lem has described such a society in his 'Ijon Tichy space travel diaries' and has demonstrated these dangers, a little bit dulled. The inhabitants of one planet wanted an absolutely organized and highly objective society governed by rules and had a supercomputer designed to run it. The computer carried out the task and subjected everything to absolute rules. The result was that the computer designed a regular element in every human being on this planet. Of these elements, he designed regular patterns on the planet, and geometrical shapes were beautifully viewed from space. There was only one shortage: there was no life. Finally, I come back to the values of society. They must not only be followed in fact, but people, people, people must retain an understanding, confidence that constitutional values are being respected. This concept must not be broken. It also ensures, among other things, that the Jürka of the North of Hell will not be subjected to the Unrighteousness of the Clever-Ants and that the Court of the Jürka of the North of Hell will not be held by Antsu, as the judge is not only the Clever-Ants, but the judge is also the Jürka of the North of Hell. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U51	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! You presented the current state of the Estonian state very nicely and took a very pleasant side of the people in your presentation. Unfortunately, I did not hear one very serious problem addressed in your presentation, which has been ridding Estonia's legal order for the last few decades, and this is the state of ownership reform. So far, tens of thousands of Estonian families who lost their homes in the course of the property reform have been left without compensation and without reimbursement of the costs they have made. Are you going to deal with this problem in the future too, because the Estonian state cannot go forward with great success in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U53	I repeat my view, which has already been said several times before, that each reform entails certain problems. Ownership reform as such was inevitable. The fact that there were many problems involved is a fact, but I think that by now Estonian society has evolved from this state. My answer is, no, I'm not going to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U54	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U55	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your very meaningful report. My question is based on the fact that on page 14 of your written review, you are writing that the Chancellor of Justice has addressed the Minister of Justice and has recommended that legislation be amended to regulate family relations for same-sex persons. In your opinion, they are contrary to the Constitution. Has the Justice Department informed you how far this thing is or what you can think of it in this state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U56	As far as I know, it's in the Justice Department proceedings, but since it's such an emotional and debatable issue, where not only legal arguments play a role, it's probably taking some time. But I hope it comes to a certain solution. There is no solution yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U57	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U58	Thank you. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! Tomorrow, the new Civil Service Act will be passed in this Chamber, with officials losing many of the social guarantees that are included in their employment contract. At the same time, they have been deprived of any right to demand better working conditions, higher wages and everything else. That means they also have no right to strike. Don't you see a contradiction here? We lose the incentives so far, and we need to keep our mouths shut. Will such public authorities be able to compete with the business sector? Will we get the best people to work in the public sector in the future, as it should be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U59	Thank you! I will closely monitor the reform of the public service and, in general, I believe that this reform is necessary. But certain individual problems are certainly not excluded. In principle, this reform must be carried out and, if there are individual problems, it can also be solved individually. If taken more broadly, there is no such closed group of people in the public ministry today. What I want to say is that there is competition with companies, that the labour market is open throughout society. This is not only the case in Estonia, but also in other countries. And since competition is wider, it is basically right that public service should be reformed. There may always be certain paradoxes in the law, they cannot be ruled out, but let's discuss it when that law exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U60	Thank you. Thank you very much to the waitress for her inspirational insight! Undoubtedly, the time is scarce in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and it is not possible to dwell on all the topics. Last year was special to you in this sense, too, that the institution of the Chancellor of Justice is now also in the role of children's ombudsman. How would you assess this area of work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U61	Thank you! I consider this area of work to be extremely important, and I can say that the launch will be satisfied. Things have gotten started. But it is such a long process that it takes more time than the term of office of one Chancellor of Justice. However, I am glad that it has started well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U62	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U63	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Your job is to make the world a better place, and when you took stock of your previous year, you drew rather critical attention to issues relating to constitutional values. My question is very simple: did you have something that you can warmly rejoice about when you summed up last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U64	In fact, even though the Chancellor of Justice is a critic, things are going to get better under the influence of specific criticism. I'd say last year was a positive one. Just because there are specific problems doesn't mean the world is doomed. Democracy is such a thing that we always solve problems. When we solve these problems, when we are inside them, sometimes we take them very seriously and we have to take them, but if there is a time distance and everything can be viewed from a distance, then things are not really bad in Estonia. Let's take 20 years after the restoration of independence, things have always gotten better step by step. Things aren't bad at all! And just because I'm a critic because of my duties doesn't mean I'm a negative. I'm primarily a constructive critic. And when I criticise, I see that there is some problem that can be corrected, something that can be changed or supplemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U65	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U66	Thank you, good manager. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for a very constructive and analytical overview. I remember a year ago I asked you about the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the fundamental right of people to receive equal service throughout Estonia. In your review of last year, you say that you had 245 procedures concerning local authorities, 66 of which required substantive procedures. This figure is lower than in 2010. At the same time, we also know that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction in certain rural areas of Estonia. Have people given up on you yet? Shops, post offices, pharmacies, rescue commandos are shut down, etc. Do you not think that an Estonian person in every place of Estonia should, according to the Constitution, have the right to receive vital services?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U67	The Constitution is of course valid throughout the territory of Estonia. However, we come to the issue raised sharply last year, i.e. the administrative reform. Your question runs into this matter very directly. But I don't want to repeat the same thing all the time. The Chancellor of Justice is not the person who is carrying out administrative reform; he cannot be. It comes down to the same problem that people want their fundamental rights and freedoms to be guaranteed at basically the same level throughout the territory of Estonia. How to achieve this is the task of the legislator and the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U68	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U69	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! My question concerns one of the decisions taken by the Riigikogu last year, which was Estonia's accession to a company based in Luxembourg, which is called EFSF. This weekend, the issue of rescuing Spanish banks became topical, and euro area finance ministers encouraged Spain to ask for up to EUR 100 billion of aid to meet its equity requirements. We in the Committee on Monetary Affairs had a debate on this issue and we had a small debate. In fact, the officials of the Ministry of Finance thought that if it were to go through the EFSF, it would not be up to the big hall to decide. Members of the Social Democratic Party found that...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U70	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U71	... no doubt it should be a great hall to decide. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U72	If I remember correctly, the decision of the Riigikogu concerning EFSF is the competence of the large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U73	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! Today, citizenship has already been discussed here, and my question is also in this area. Your review tells us that you have started an abstract process of regulation in order to assess the compatibility of the legal basis for applying for children's citizenship and residence permits with the Constitution and international agreements. As a result of your initial analysis, you have found certain shortcomings in this, i.e. by quoting you: 'The legislation in force does not guarantee the right of a child to acquire citizenship if he or she has not acquired citizenship in any country by birth. ' You have requested an opinion from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as you write here in your review, and it is noted that the procedure for this issue will continue in 2012. My question is: does the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agree with your initial conclusions and what is the state of play of this procedure now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U74	Thank you! I have this analysis at the end of the line. There are some legal theoretic moments. I didn't agree to it, but the analysis should be completed on a certain point. Different legal theorists interpret the situation differently, and I have to find a strong argument. After all, the Chancellor of Justice can move forward when he finds that a situation is in conflict with the Constitution, not that it has been the subject of a certain decision of discretion within the framework of the Constitution. This is my, let's say, internal discussion phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U75	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U76	Thank you, good manager. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for your philosophical speech and a concise report. In your speech, you found that society should be guided by values and less by regulations and procedures. Where do you think Estonia's current social organisation is on this scale? Are we too regulated already?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U77	We are moving towards a classic, over-regulated society that is inevitable in some form. I just wanted to stress that there are certain intangible values behind all these regulations, which have common understandings and which hold society together. We haven't moved too far yet, but we could slow this down, not try to regulate every nuance with the laws. My message is that society's energy can be much better harnessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U78	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U79	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you for your meaningful presentation. One of your colleagues asked you about the progress made last year. In my opinion, one of them was that you took the question of the remuneration for the toleration of the facility to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court's decision declared it unconstitutional. I ask you: before the government signed the ESM, did it consult you and ask you about a possible contradiction with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U80	Thank you! I pointed out in my letter of formal notice, even before the government signed it, the questionable issues involved, that this might not be in accordance with the Constitution. That's what I did earlier. So the government was informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U81	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chancellor of Justice! You have been praised today for a very meaningful report. Indeed, the review seems to be getting more meaningful and robust every year. But here's what I'm asking you. Today, much has been said about the withdrawal of competence from the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. Today, as the eighth item on the agenda, we have a draft act ratifying the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There are several places where the decision-making powers of the large Chamber of Riigikogu have been taken away and the competence of the committee has been incorporated. Are you familiar with this bill and, if so, what do you think we should do with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U83	The principle is that if such obligations are taken, which are explicitly stated in § 65 of the Constitution, this section provides for the competence of the Riigikogu, then the decision-maker is a large hall. For other issues, consideration must be given to whether they are of such importance or not. I think that this principle should be respected for every draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U84	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor, I, too, thank you for this review, which is very thorough and very subjective. When you answered the questions, you spoke about the validity of the Constitution throughout Estonia and also about the administrative reform. My question concerns the resolution of the Supreme Court of March 2010 on the problem that the responsibilities of our local governments are not really divided into the tasks of national and local governments. How do you assess this situation today? Has it moved on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U86	The division of responsibilities between the local government and the state, as I recall, is formally done. The question arises here: public power, statehood is a whole, and this distribution is always to a certain extent conventional and debatable. It is virtually impossible to make a very rigid and one distribution in my understanding, and hence this problem. It is possible to place a great deal of responsibilities on local authorities, but the question of financing is about to arise. Since the state holds the wallet, it ends with everlasting disputes. I do not see any very good solution in this, because it always ends with disputes over money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U87	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Even I, Chancellor of Justice, do not fail to thank you for a thorough report on the activities of you and your office in 2011 at 118 pages of very interesting and informative reading. As a member of the Riigikogu for the first period, I only have to compare the reviews between the previous year and this year. My question is as follows. When I read the overview, I did not find the topic of caring for people with deep or severe disabilities, especially those of parents caring for such children. Have you been approached with these concerns? EUR 19 care support and the inhuman situation of these people have found much media coverage. Has this problem come to you? True, it is a great thing that the topic of guardians and relevant reporting were taken up in this Chamber in connection with the amendment of the family law, but I am asking about this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U89	The Chancellor of Justice is trying to deal with such matters when people cannot stand up for their own rights. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice does not reach everything with his 48 advisers. We'll do as much as we can. I certainly have these issues at the top of my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U90	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Chancellor of Justice's oral presentation may have made one main conclusion: the questions and tasks relating to the basis of our statehood, if you wish, also the power, are in many ways slipping away from the Riigikogu. Has your authority discussed the reasons for this? Is it simply faster and more convenient, or is it because of failure to do something or the desire of executive power to be over the rule of law? What really could be the reasons that we've come to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U92	There are very many reasons why this paradox has been introduced into the organisation of a parliamentary state. That's one thing. In some ways, it's inevitable. On the other hand, Parliament must, in principle, also have such a constructive commitment and it cannot overcome or reverse pragmatic aspects. Inevitably, the executive has more real capacity to act. Parliament, which does not have many advisers, simply lacks strength. At the same time, I can say, having been a lot to the committees last year and this year, that the committees are changing a lot of the drafts sent by the executive authorities, they are converting them. But as I understand it, the Riigikogu does not have enough resources and it does not receive this resource either. Like last year, I would stress that it would be normal for the legislator to have more advisers. Unfortunately, they're not there right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U93	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you for paying very important attention to constitutional issues or, in fact, to constitutional choices. And that's what you do more and more. I agree that our choices have become more diverse and that there are no longer clear signs of good and evil on our crossroads, or on the future side. We can no longer be guided by this, but must make our own choices. And there are ways by which, with greater or less success, one can continue as an independent state, but there is also a path that leads to the oblivion of our independent state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U95	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U96	I'm asking about schools for children with special educational needs. You've been talking about schools for kids with special needs. Are we okay in these schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U97	There's never a situation where everything's okay. Given the sharpness of this problem, it must be acknowledged that, of course, there are bottlenecks, both in regulations and in the real situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U98	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U99	Thank you. Now the Chancellor of Justice has the task of the children's ombudsman as well, and this review also pays attention to this. It has been said here that the task of the child ombudsman is not only to supervise but also to introduce and promote children's rights. What do you consider to be more important: the role of the supervisor or the promoter and promoter of children's rights? And how fertile does it fall on the soil? And are you also talking about children's responsibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U100	The rights and obligations, of course, go together, but these two functions are combined. One thing is communication that is continuous, continuous, continuous. But it's not enough for me to know what's going on in reality. For example, one of the priorities right now is that we control replacement homes. We want to finish this analysis this year. These two sides of the communication of rights and obligations are combined with supervision and control. Well, I'm not a control and supervision fetisher, but keeping an eye on it always helps. But I repeat: these two functions combine together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U101	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U102	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, For years, there has been one theme that does not have a clear answer: namely the membership or non-membership of Riigikogu members in various councils. What's your position? Could it be like this or something? Do you have a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U103	I have explained this in an article a few years ago that I do not believe that the Constitution is such a restriction. The judgment of the Supreme Court of 1994 has been highlighted, but it should not be forgotten that there were administrative boards at the time. At the moment, I think it is very arbitrary to equalise the status of a company in the board of directors and the public service. I do not see such a restriction, and it is the legislator's decision to make such a restriction. Therefore, if the members of the Riigikogu are in some councils, I do not see any contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U104	Thank you very much. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U105	Thanks! You expressed a relatively specific fear that the people's selves would tend to lose control of the country from time to time. I bring, for example, aid packages for countries that do not need our taxpayers' money, but accountants or more intelligence, or the desire to make certain package decisions, as if they wanted to do something quickly and quietly. What can we do to put an end to this situation? I mean, it does exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U106	I don't think that's ever gonna end. Such a tension or conflict will always remain, because in certain cases the technologists still think that they need to decide quickly. But a quick decision may not always be the right decision. Risk mitigation just as we take one part of this decision-making process, it is always more effective if the circle of decision-makers is wider. As I pointed out, through the Riigikogu, the people speak, and if the people are aware of both positive and negative scenarios of life, they have shown that not everything goes as well as planned, then the word 'decision' is literally justified. It mitigates both risks and gives the decision a very broad coverage. But I assure you, I'm not afraid. I am simply pointing out certain problems, hoping for the best solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U107	Thank you very much. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U108	Thank you. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for your report. I'm probably a technocratic too, and I love quick decisions when there's a crisis situation. Our constitution was written 20 years ago and then the European Union was not yet our dream. But the European Union has a complex structure and complex problems. My question is: what do you think maybe it is necessary to tackle the Constitution and write it under new conditions? It's a matter of a technopath.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U109	I, of course, do not disparage technologists. I can also use the word'specialist': specialists make certain decisions. By technocrats, I meant the financials. And why am I using that word? I have used the wording of one theorist, Nobel laureate Stiglitz, who has taken the view in his book Free Fall that such big financial decisions should not remain at the mercy of financial technocrats that the people must know that their money is at stake. Society must be able to decide. It's not my own fiction. The use of the word 'technocrate' results from the work of certain theorists. Now for the amendment of the Constitution. I think that the general principles of our constitution are good and flexible enough, they can be furnished constructively. And it is precisely in a crisis situation that we should not change the Constitution. After all, there is such historical experience that if the basic principles were to be changed quickly, the solution might not be constructive and we might be struck by a surprise that came out. Every constitution means compromises and what kind of compromise wins or doesn't know. In my opinion, the current constitution in its current form works and is suitable for Estonian society. However, I am convinced that in certain cases a decision can be made very quickly. If you look at the practice of other countries, the US Congress voted a few years ago, when it was the first wave of crisis, initially down the rescue package and only the second time accepted it. Our society is working pretty well in the current situation. Giving up such a broad-based decision does not guarantee a good outcome. I believe that our constitution provides a very good opportunity for such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U110	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U111	Thank you. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for promoting this philosophy, so that the state and the lives of the people should not be over-regulated. Indeed, liberal thinking certainly prefers the country of citizens to the state apparatus. But it certainly requires a very strong civic education, that citizens understand things in detail and that everyone knows their rights, responsibilities and opportunities well enough. How would you assess the current state of civic education in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U112	I have not carried out any special procedure in this regard. My subjective opinion is that it has improved year after year. Looking at the level and nature of people's conversions, it can be concluded that the people have become increasingly aware. People understand their rights more and more and can take care of them. I'd say it'll heal year after year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U113	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U114	We talked about this a little bit earlier, remember? It seems to me that the two functions of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman's are not well aligned. The performance of the Ombudsman's function, as is the case at the expense of the analytical function. Your predecessor's main working method, as we remember, was ultimately a lament. Now, the question is that, since it comes at the expense of a legal analysis, should we not subtract these two functions again? Tõnis Lukas rightly said that a legal analysis, this is what the chancellor does, does not aim to be sympathetic, to cry for it. The aim is to carry out a legal analysis. Don't you think these functions should break up? That would make your job easier, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U115	It's an everlasting theme to combine tasks in a small country. So far, functions related to human rights in general have been taken up and assembled. In principle, this is entirely possible. Well, that's the decision of the legislator, isn't it? This arrangement is economical, giving the opportunity to combine the work of the advisors. I have organised my work in such a way that constitutional oversight is at the heart of everything else. When you look at other countries, Finland and Sweden, for example, have a separate Ombudsman and Chancellor of Justice. In Finland, at least in private conversations, I have been assured that they will exchange applications with each other and that there will be an overlap of competences. So the resources are actually being wasted. A pragmatic solution for a small country is, in my opinion, the right one. The current set that the Chancellor of Justice and his team represent is optimal. I can run the whole house, and I know what's going on. I can put down strategic lines and, as I said, the analysis of constitutional oversight is central. I have recently followed three basic principles in my house. First of all, every document, including any analysis going out, must have a backbone, a basic idea. Secondly, things must happen quickly or at least within a reasonable time. And third, the documents must not be too long. Lawyers tend to have them too long. Three simple principles, the first of which is the most important. All this work can be combined quite well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U116	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U117	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your meaningful report. In previous years, I have wanted to ask you about the fact that agriculture has been one of the most beautiful branches of inequality in Estonia and, in particular, as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon. It would be very interesting for me to know whether you, during your period of work, have had to resolve some of the situations relating to agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U118	There have been some statements concerning the nuances that remain within my jurisdiction. As we know, I cannot intervene in matters which are within the competence of the European Union, and if you mean an unequal situation caused by subsidies, the Chancellor of Justice cannot intervene there. From memory, however, there have been not many statements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U119	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! My question does not narrowly concern the 2011 report, but perhaps you are so kind and yet you will answer me. My question concerns one of the limitations of the limit that members of the Riigikogu may not belong to local government councils. As Chancellor of Justice, what do you think: do you think this restriction is reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U121	I have not analysed this subject very thoroughly, but I think there is a reasonable justification for this restriction. Why? In certain cases there may be a dispute between the local government and the state, and if the person is a member of both bodies, there will be a conflict of interest. The local government can, after all, if the law of the state violates the autonomy of the local government, go to the Supreme Court and that conflict may arise from it. In my opinion, this distinction makes sense in legal theory, and also in the sense that there are 24 hours a day. Is it realistic for someone to try to be in office in several places? In my opinion, this restriction makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, you have no further questions. Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. We're going to negotiate. Please, as representative of the Rait Maruste Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U123	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice and his team have become a strong centre of legal competence, whose in-depth analyses and positions have shaped Estonian legal order and politics to an outstanding extent. The office of the Chancellor of Justice has also been freed from populism and interference in politics that has sometimes appeared in earlier times and has thus gained greater credibility. At the same time, it may be worth recalling once again that the Chancellor of Justice is, however, a single institution. Pluralist, world-view debate on political and rational choices, discussions on their place are here in the Riigikogu. Several comments and attention managements from the Chancellor of Justice, the problems he raises, have been resolved in the Riigikogu, such as lowering state fees, or solving them. The latter can be illustrated by surveillance and court order. But still, nothing in this world is good enough to get better. Moreover, it is not our task here to say flattery to each other, but to use the words of the Chancellor of Justice himself: it is our task to make constructive criticism of each other. And thus some observations and proved. If my point is correct, the Chancellor of Justice's annual report has been presented this year, at least until now, only in digital form. Whether the paper version follows, I don't know. But whether such savings are justified is questionable, because the Chancellor of Justice is the Chancellor of Justice of the entire nation, not just the Chancellor of the Digital People. So much for uniform. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the Riigikogu came up against the request of the Chancellor of Justice to exempt him from the mandatory processing of minor applications for a standard check in order to save him time and resources for serious applications, which are in the public interest. We did what was reasonable and necessary. Undoubtedly, the legal problems associated with the financial crisis, which keep our senses tight, are also important issues. And here I come to the topic of pro- and retroactive response by the Chancellor of Justice. There are examples, for example in the case of EFSF, that the Chancellor of Justice became energetically and proactively involved in proceedings in the Riigikogu. However, we cannot see the same attitude in the case of the ESM, even though the problems have been known for some time. These occurred at the latest at the end of last year, but the reaction came a little later and, unfortunately, bypassing the Riigikogu, even without proper information from the Riigikogu. If the ESM is an external agreement from its external formal characteristics, its content is undoubtedly the organisation of the internal affairs of the European Union, i.e. European Union law. It would be nice if there were no special procedure for such cases in the Constitutional Review Law. It is stipulated in which case the Riigikogu may ask the Supreme Court for an opinion on how to understand and apply European Union law. For some reason, this opportunity was missed, even unnegotiated and uncoordinated. However, what is the difference between a legally binding judgment and a non-binding opinion is clear not only for lawyers. Everyone involved in this is therefore in a very complicated situation, including the government, the Riigikogu and the Supreme Court. This is going to be very delicate when, for example, the German Constitutional Court finds in its judgment of 19 June that, despite its form, it is essentially European Union law. This is the only question that is discussed in the German Constitutional Court. As we know, the nature of international law, or contract, is defined not by its legal form, but, above all, by its purpose and content. I would like to express my hope for a constructive dialogue and discussion between the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice, at the debate on the ESM law that will soon be ratified, or at the debate on the competence of the Riigikogu to delegate. I wish the Chancellor of Justice every strength and success. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U124	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Grand Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U125	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for a thorough overview of his activities in 2011 and for this constructive and deeply philosophical presentation here today. If all of this were to be summed up in a single sentence, this activity report could be asked without any rhetoric: what would we do without the Chancellor of Justice? Very efficient, very efficient! Looking at the end of this overview, we have an idea of the wide scope and influence of the activities of the Chancellor of Justice in the national and self-governing working space of Estonia. During the visit by the Chancellor of Justice to the SDE Group, we asked him whether the size of his team was optimal and fit for his duties. He said that right now his team is optimal, but he couldn't take any more extra functions. Is it supposed to be? Finally, good legislative practice in the Riigikogu and good governance practice in the government should become the general norm. For now, yes, I'm afraid I can't say that yet. We often have to deal with the correction of errors that the Chancellor of Justice often points to as an independent institution. Fortunately, there is also the National Audit Office and the Supreme Court, civil society and public opinion, and finally there is also an opposition. The art of carefully practiced ignoring and curing the parties of power works in all of these cases. However, sometimes the opposition seems to have fallen at its worst because it is the first opponent in the political parliamentary debate and the independent institutions have better access to the necessary corrective and guiding function. But we're doing our best too. So all the effort to deliver is not spread on the shoulders of the Chancellor of Justice and, fortunately, the Chancellor of Justice is doing his job with full responsibility. We can list a number of important improvements in Parliament that have taken place or are taking place thanks to the action of the Chancellor of Justice or with his strong support. Let us mention, for example, the reduction of state fees, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to immunity, the amendment of the Citizenship Act that has come into effect today with regard to unfairly deprived citizenship, or the substantial correction of the regulation of surveillance activities. The Chancellor of Justice has defended parliamentarianism in Estonia, the sovereignty of the Member of Parliament as well as the decision-making powers of the Parliament, and this is the logical way forward for Estonia's accession to the European Stability Mechanism and the role of the Chancellor of Justice in making this decision. No one can have any doubt that the supervision of the Estonian Constitution is in safe hands. However, yes, the credibility of this institution has also allowed power parties to get behind the Chancellor of Justice, for example when there was a change of collective agreement law with the hands of the Committee on Legal Affairs. If we now also take this step to resolve the fundamental problems that the Chancellor of Justice has referred to in the review of his activities last year, this would be a significant step forward. Much of the problems mentioned at the time are still in the air. Last year, the main topic of the report by the Chancellor of Justice was Parliament as the decision-maker. The Chancellor of Justice spoke about the so-called'mañana-Parliament syndrome', as well as about ensuring the fundamental rights of people and the necessity of administrative reform in this regard. With administrative reform, we are still in the same country as last year, despite the combined efforts of national self-government associations. Nevertheless, we cannot call the current composition of the Riigikogu mañana-Parliament; I would rather call it an olé-Parliament than take the expression from the same language. For example, the activities of the Committee on Legal Affairs, in my opinion, are characterised by a style not intended-made but made-made. What can be done, then, if calm, thought-out lawmaking is hindered by pressure from the Ministry to make sure that the law is passed before summer, or by the desire for political profide. The quality of legislation should be the thing that worries us the most as a Parliament. The Chancellor of Justice's references to this have been relatively frequent. Marko Pomerants has said this after the Chancellor of Justice's report in 2011: 'What is the role of the Riigikogu, how we use it, how we use our opportunities, it is in our own hands. Let us not act ourselves in relation to this one material, comrades. " Mr. Pomerants was talking about the rubber stamp. With this quote, let me finish and wish the Chancellor of Justice the strength for further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U126	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Group of Kaia Iva Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U127	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Colleagues! I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for his thorough review, but above all for the work underlying the report. All the lines of work in this institution are undoubtedly important, but I will only stop at the role of children's ombudsman. Estonia ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1989 in 1991. The functions of the children's ombudsman are performed by the Chancellor of Justice from the spring of last year. It is good to note that the work of the children's ombudsman is well seen through the website and Facebook, impressive is the number of performances and articles, cooperation with other organisations takes place. I'm sure everyone noticed the open-door day at the children's ombudsman's this year on Child Welfare Day. In addition to the procedures carried out, visits to substitute homes are of greater interest. These are children without parental care who are placed in institutional care, formerly called orphanages. During the inspections, the Chancellor of Justice has found shortcomings: workers are few and no space is enough. I think that these shortcomings are relatively easy to resolve, but there are also fundamental questions that emerge from the review. For example, the Chancellor of Justice has referred to a problem where children from one family are placed in different families in a replacement home. I think that's unacceptable. Another example was that two children in one family are in a replacement home and one in a family care. The Chancellor of Justice is delicately pointing out that the maintenance of child-to-child bond should be supported. I consider this reference to be correct, but it is a broader question. In general, the separation of brothers and sisters should be avoided. However, the rigid application of this requirement has resulted in all children being forced to stay in a replacement home if they were to adopt or take care of a family. Certainly, every effort must be made to find and train a suitable family capable of raising all children from one family, but there are cases where replacement care or adoption is required for four, six or nine children in one family. What is more in the interests of children: Is it that some children can find a new family, or that all children can grow up together, not in the family, but in the institution? There is sufficient evidence that institutional care compared to a functioning family hampers the child's development and later livelihood in maintaining a stable relationship in independent life and creating a family. It is necessary to discuss and guide policies on how to find a family for as many children as possible in the interests of the child, while at the same time maintaining and strengthening family ties between siblings and brothers. Here the role of local authorities is very important, as local authorities are usually guardians of children growing up in a substitute home. The Chancellor of Justice has referred in his review to problems where the guardianship institution, the municipality or the city administration has not taken sufficient care of the property of guardianship, it has been placed in the right or best way, has not demanded a living for the guardianship and similar cases. Once again, I think that the issue is important, but through systematic advice and control, property issues are relatively easier to resolve. I see major problems in the activities of the local authority of the child's place of residence, i.e. the guardianship institution, which determines the child's environment for growth and development. The Chancellor of Justice has identified cases where the representative of the municipality is not familiar with the life and development of the child in the orphanage. A case plan is mandatory, either not completed or not updated. A sufficiently frequent occurrence of this situation has been confirmed by a number of replacement homes that I have visited in the last year. Of course, the situation varies from one municipality to another, but unfortunately, the substitute home is a convenient solution in the eyes of the local government to send the child, but for the child it may mean a dead end. I know of a case where a three-year-old child was separated from his family and placed in a substitute home. My mother wrote a statement that she was giving up her child, but it stayed in someone's drawer for years. A child, healthy and dredged, spent the next six years in a replacement home, with a three - year - old child finding a new family very quickly through adoption. Now six years later, the child arrived at family care. I know of cases where, as a guardianship institution, the municipality has not informed the county government of the so-called legally free children who could direct these children to adoption. I know cases where the municipality, as a guardianship institution, is knowingly creating obstacles to preventing the child from entering the family care system, i.e. to avoid leaving the substitute home, which would lead to the loss of the national bounty. I have seen situations in which, in my opinion, the guardianship institution is obstructing the child's interests by the choice of a school for orphan children living in a substitute home or by preventing them from going to preschool at school. These are individual cases that have been resolved, but these are alarming examples. These children do not have a family, a community, a social network to defend their rights. They need a guardianship institution, a local government where the child comes from. I do not want to argue that all 1200 children in Estonia's replacement homes are not treated with sufficient care. No, usually the guardianship agency does the best possible thing. Very many children without parental care reach adoption or family care, and I do not want to open a debate here and convince you that it is better than growing up in an institution. This isn't a complaint to substitute homes. There is usually a very good job, but I am convinced that the right child's growing environment is a functioning family even if it is not a biological family. In cooperation between the state, local authorities and the third sector, we need to achieve systematic work, so that for each child everything is possible so that they can grow in the family. If this is not possible in a biological family, then in a new, professionally prepared family. It's a child's right. I am very pleased that the Chancellor of Justice will continue to study this issue and that the priority of 2012 is the protection of the rights of children in substitute homes. An analysis must be prepared during this year, and more general recommendations for relevant action and policy-making will hopefully emerge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U128	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U129	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Chancellor of Justice doesn't want an ending, does he? No? Got it. This item is exhausted. Thank you very much to the Chancellor of Justice and all the speakers-questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U130	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! You have performed very strongly in the last year as a guardian of the values enshrined in the Constitution. This particularly concerns the European Union's so-called rescue package and the related decision-making levels. Surely you have put the executive power, let us say, in a twofold position with your positions, because, at certain moments in Brussels, the representatives of the executive power have made certain promises that are not actually so easy to fulfil because of your views. Hence my question: what relationship do you have with the government now? Have you been criticised, or are these relationships constructive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U132	I can assure you that my relationship with the government is very constructive. As a general rule, I say my opinion, but that doesn't mean that my communication is affected. I respect people and, as a result, relationships are constructive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U133	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U134	Thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I raised your concern about the delegation of certain decisions to Riigikogu committees. As chairman of the committee, I say that the National Defence Committee, for example, must give its opinion on the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces, as well as on the defence strategy document. Let me get this straight. You think it's right to bring these things into the big hall, or you think they're irrelevant issues, and they're not within the framework of your concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U135	Thank you! Of course, these questions are not insignificant. I wanted to stress that certain things, which are important matters of state life, should be decided in a large Chamber. This does not mean that all other issues are of little importance to the government, too, will decide a great many things that are important, but which concern our own statehood in general. Questions concerning the competences of the Riigikogu listed in paragraph 65 should in any case be decided in the large hall. That's the principle. Certain things may be decided by the Commission, but in my speech I meant that the Commission cannot take on the State's financial obligations. It's still in the jurisdiction of the great hall. In addition, it must be taken into account that every member of the Riigikogu has a free mandate from the electorate. He has the right to participate in the decision-making process, to vote, to express his opinion, but the public does not know what is happening in the committees. He knows what's going on in this hall. That is what I meant when I spoke about important issues, without underestimating other questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U136	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U137	Thank you! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your presentation, you spoke for quite a long time on one topic, namely the elected assembly of the people in this house and the delegation of certain important issues by us to the committees. I didn't read out of your rhetoric the explicit approval or condemnation of this process, you were very delicate. Perhaps you have some kind of suggestion as to how it should be reorganized or what should be done? If the Constitution does not provide for precise powers to resolve certain issues, where should this limit be drawn? Do you have a specific proposal? Can you elaborate on what you were thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U138	Thank you! I think that this issue will arise more specifically in the near future. I don't want to get ahead of things. I'm just going to mark certain issues so I know which way I'm going in the near future. This is an important issue, not only of legal theory, but also of practical importance, which must be debated. But I wouldn't be more specific right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U139	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U140	We come to the fourth item, which is the second reading of the Act on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act and the Draft Act amending the Law on state fees. I would like to ask Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Environment Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on ambient air protection, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the State Fees Act on two occasions. We examined the amendments. They did not come from the members of the Riigikogu, but one initial proposal was submitted by the Ministry of the Environment and one by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Following the debate, the Committee on the Environment decided to support them. We formalised these proposals from the executive as they were put forward in our amendments. I would point out that the three proposals can be considered as amendments of a relatively technical nature in the light of our working culture. I would not talk much about all the aims of this bill now, because at first reading, Minister Pentus in particular put great emphasis on the general philosophy of amending this law in his presentation. But now the amendments. The treatment of fluorinated greenhouse gases, as such, has now been identified by activity, as the Ministry of Justice considered the previous wording to be too general. Now all the relevant activities are in a separate letter and, in this sense, the draft law is certainly more precise. Perhaps the most important amendment is the introduction of a new wording in the liability provisions to § 1 (16) of the draft. Its purpose is to clarify the liability rules to allow liability for non-compliance with the handling requirements of products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases. The levels of liability have remained the same as they were presented in the first reading hall, but they are now grouped in a bit more understandable and brought to the level of the law. The maximum liability for non-compliance with handling requirements shall be EUR 6400. If there is a problem with the maintenance book, it has not survived, or there is an infringement there, then a lower level of liability can be considered reasonable. The liability provisions always refer to specific European Union legislation, as the rules for handling F-gases are the result of directly applicable EU regulations, and so there are references in this draft law. Amendment 2 has been incorporated into the draft as a matter not concerned at first reading. According to this, the law is supplemented by the following provision: 'The Green Investment Scheme supports, in addition to other environmentally sound projects and programmes, the reconstruction of small homes for natural persons, the purchase and installation of renewable energy production equipment for small houses, and the purchase and installation of electric cars and their loading equipment. ' This proposal supports our environmentally friendly management and those activities that have so far generally been supported through KredEx. The tax administration needs a legal basis in order to accept any tax relief, such as tax exemption, and so far the law did not state that these programmes could also concern a natural person. It is now proposed to include a natural person in the law in order to allow such renovations and acquisitions to benefit from the exemption. That is all to characterize the amendments. I would like to thank the Members of the Commission and the staff, as well as our partners, in short, all the people who have prepared this bill. I think that the revised explanatory memorandum prepared for the second reading is comprehensive and should provide answers to all questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U142	Thank you, Tõnis Lukas. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments, they have been tabled in 13; they are all those of the Committee on the Environment. Amendment 1, take full account; No 2, take full account; No 3, take full account; No 4, take full account; No 5, take full account; No 6, take full account; No 7, take full account; No 8, take full account; No 9, take full account; No 10, take full account; No 11, take full account; No 12, take full account; No 13, take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U143	Let's get to the next item. This is the second reading of the Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Bill 229 amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities was completed on 30 May. The main aim of amending the Health Insurance Act is to make medicines cheaper for people. More specifically, it concerns the products sold at a 50% discount, which eliminates the EUR 12.79 threshold. The second amendment concerns, in particular, the admission of a specialist doctor. The proposal will increase the role of "gate watch" by family doctors in order to reduce the workload of specialist doctors and create the possibility of shortening the waiting lists for specialised doctors. Monitoring chronic patients on a daily basis goes to the family doctor's jurisdiction. The purpose of amending the Social Benefits Act for persons with disabilities is to introduce disability cards in the Estonian legal area in order to ensure better protection of persons with disabilities. No proposals for amending the draft law were received, and the Commission took the following consensual decisions at its meeting on 5 June: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 12 June and to propose that the second reading be completed; when the second reading is completed, to propose that the draft be sent to third reading on 14 June and that the draft be adopted as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U145	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. You have a question from colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U146	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that increasing the role of the "gatekeeper" of the family physician should shorten the waiting times for specialist visits. The same has been said by the Minister. However, a European study was published last week. Using Powerhouse, we learned that, on the contrary, the problem of waiting times is precisely where family doctors have the role of goalkeeper. If a patient has to visit a family doctor, this will prolong access to a specialist. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U147	However, the draft establishes the role of the gatekeeper of such a family doctor, as it gives the family doctor the opportunity to consult a specialist. The patient will be sent to a specialist for examination, but in the case of chronic illness, monitoring will remain within the competence of the family physician unless the specialist sees the need to call the patient back. So what you're referring to, the bill doesn't take into account right now. Obviously, the amendment will enter into force on 1 October and we hope that it will produce the result that the initiator has asked for.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U148	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U149	Thank you. Do you think a family doctor can advise a chronic illness better than a specialist in a particular field?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U150	I think that the best result will be achieved through cooperation. I believe our family doctors are very competent to deal with chronic patients. If they see any problems, they can always send the patient to a specialist for consultation, and there is still a possibility that the specialist will keep the patient under observation. It's in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U151	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft law. Bill 229, second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U152	We will begin the second reading of the Forensic Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws. For a presentation, I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U153	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs met twice after the first reading. We met for the first time on 5 June when there was a very substantive debate that lasted almost two hours. Our sitting was chaired by Marko Pomerants, chairman of the committee, and took part in my meeting from Andres Anvelt, who attended until 13.48; Lauri Luik, alternate for Igor Gräzin, who was present at our sitting from 1:15 to 14.38; Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, who was present at the sitting from 1:17; Siim Kabrits, who was present until 2.50 p.m., Valdo Randpere and adviser Carina Rikart. Indeed, many assistants were invited to discuss this draft: Counsellor of the Minister of Justice Madis Timpson, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice Kati Taitse-Pärkna, Advisor Julia Antonova, Adviser of the Private Law Service Stella Johanson, Legal Adviser of the Data Protection Inspectorate Maris Juha, Director of the Institute of Estonian Forensics Üllar Lanno and Deputy Director of Development of the same institution Marika Väli, and Nationally recognized expert in the field of forensics. No formal proposals were received by the deadline for amendments. However, a number of other proposals had been received by the Commission, which we discussed in two sessions. As a result, we received ten Commission amendments. The discussions were very substantive and, for a moment, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, what the aims of this bill are. Firstly, the creation of a DNA and fingerprint register, the second of which concerns the prices of forensics, and the third of which is the possibility of a preliminary detention of a person for 40 days instead of 14 days. These are the main objectives. I have to admit that during the discussion of this draft, I, as rapporteur for the draft and the other members of the Commission, had a number of questions along the way, but in the course of the two sessions, we had essentially reached consensual decisions. On 5 June, we decided to continue the debate in the Commission on 11 June. The second decision was to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 12 June, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading on 14 June. It was adopted by consensus. On 11 June we reached the same position and the decisions taken on 5 June remained consensually procedural decisions. This is what the process looked like in short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U154	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U155	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already had several reasons to come to the remote and talk about good practice in legislation over the last few weeks. I don't think there's anything else left to do, you have to stay on the remote to talk until things get better. I want to talk a little bit about the process of processing this same bill. The draft law was submitted to the Riigikogu on 2 April. Then one month was missed and on 30 April the Commission discussed this draft for the first time. On 9 May, the Commission discussed the draft for the second time and set the deadline for the amendments to 23 May, i.e. two weeks. This is, of course, the usual deadline for tabling amendments. No proposals were received in due course, but a number of proposals were received in themselves. They were presented by the Supreme Court, the Estonian Psychiatric Society, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Estonian Patients' Association. On 31 May, the Ministry of Justice tabled its amendments, which I read a total of 15, and Kalle Laane became ten. I probably counted some things in two and Laane in one; there were probably ten official amendments. Several of them were substantive. Among other things, it is determined that forensics could be carried out by a single doctor, not by several doctors. A week later, the Commission discussed the proposals made and changed the wording (this was on Monday), then the wording was polished in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice until Friday, and today is Monday. In fact, this means that after the deadline for amendments is over, the Ministry of Justice will come with a large number of new proposals, they will be drafted as amendments by the Commission, because the Commission's proposals can be made at all times. In essence, however, there will be no new round of coordination. The question is: is this an appropriate way to deal with draft laws or is it not? For example, I had a question in the Commission about this very group of patients: can they give their opinion again if the draft has been substantially amended on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice? Well, there wasn't time for that. The Commission staff sent them the proposed changes, but if the material is sent on Friday and the answer has to be there by Monday, it is quite impossible to take these opinions into account. So we could not actually ask the patients' representative society for a meaningful opinion. Why is this important for the draft we are discussing today? This is not just a technical draft. Here, for example, is the subject that if you could have been put in a mental institution for 14 days and injected into 14 days in the framework of your first legal protection, in order to calm down, after this legislative amendment, you can be put in a doctor's opinion, not by an expert, but by the treating physician! For 40 days, he should be injected until he calms down and then decide what happens to him. It's a big change! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U156	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U157	The fact that one person, not two persons, could carry out the expertise is also an important change. So the patients' representative association could still have the opportunity to take its stand on this substantially improved draft. This process, where the Ministry brings its amendments at the last minute, is formalised as proposals by the Commission and enters the draft in such a way that the new round of coordination does not take place in substance, is not in line with good legislative practice. This is not the first time that we have drawn attention to this problem. In the same way, over foot, the Commission amended draft law 206: amendments came on the weekend; on Monday morning they were tabled in such a way that they could not even be finalised in writing. In the same 206 discussions, good colleague Valdo Randpere said: 'May this be the last time! ' Well, this is the last time now, ladies and gentlemen. We will allow the initiators of this draft and the parties involved to discuss the draft once again calmly and to make their proposals. Let us allow for correct legislation! With such a proposal, the Social Democrats are out. So we propose that we interrupt the second reading of draft 202. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U158	Thank you. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If I previously represented the Commission's position, I now represent the views of Kalle Laanet and the Democrats. I agree to a large extent with my good colleague, the previous speaker. In the course of this draft procedure, all things were indeed delayed, including the submission of proposals. And most strangely: the reasons for the proposals put forward were, in my opinion and in the view of very many other Members of the Commission, very peculiar. They were, in many cases, justified by the lack of budgetary resources, the need to save money, which cannot be an end in itself if we are talking about restricting certain constitutional rights, which is initial detention. This is also a controversial decision when experts are essentially reduced from several to one. That raises a lot of questions. At the same time, we reached, I believe, a relatively good text in the course of the procedure. That is, in the sense that we were able to formulate quite clearly what we are actually waiting for. If the words of the chairman of the committee were to be used, no one would forbid Parliament to work and shape the draft as it might go out of Parliament. In my opinion, this is an example of the fact that very serious work has been done in the Commission so that the draft can become as realistic as possible and become operational. But I agree with Neem in the sense that we're running late and running. The executive comes through the door and window at the times he is fit for it, and Parliament must be able to deal with things oversonic in accordance with the agreements that are made in the coalition. Of course, this leads to a situation where mistakes are made, and these errors will later be put on all of us. We really should follow good legislative practice more substantively and consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U160	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the examination of the amendments. There are ten amendments to the draft law. Proposal No 1, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 2, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 3, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 4, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 5, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 6, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 7, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposal No 8, from the lead committee, fully taken into account; proposals No 9 and 10, from the lead committee, fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments, but there is still a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party on our table. We have to vote on this. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 202 to interrupt the second reading. Please vote! 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 202 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U161	The second reading of the draft law supplementing political party law initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now on the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U162	Thank you for your confidence, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed a draft law supplementing party law 216 at our committee meeting on 7 June. I recall that the aim of the draft is to regulate the remuneration of the members of the committee responsible for monitoring the funding of political parties according to their contribution to the work of the committee. The Commission had to note at its meeting that no amendments had been received following the first reading of the draft. We then started to decide immediately, and these decisions were as follows: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session today, 12 June, we propose that the second reading be stopped and, if this decision is to take place in this Chamber today, to send the draft to a third reading, or adoption on 14 June. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U163	Thank you very much, Mr Peep Aru. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments were tabled, which means that the second reading of bill 216 has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U164	The first reading of the draft Act 237 on the ratification of an amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, is now on the agenda. For a presentation, I ask the Foreign Minister of the Speaker Urmas Paeti!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U165	Good afternoon, good members of the Riigikogu. You have then been presented with a draft act ratifying the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Its aim is to ratify the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, adopted by a decision of the European Council. Pursuant to that Decision, Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is amended as regards the establishment of a European Stability Mechanism for countries of the European Union whose currency is the euro. In Article 136, a new paragraph is added as follows: 'Member States whose currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism to be introduced if this is indispensable for the stability of the euro area as a whole. On the basis of the mechanism, any necessary financial assistance shall be provided under strict conditions. ' The purpose of this amendment is to provide explicitly for the possibility in the Treaties on the part of the European Union that Member States may establish a permanent European stability mechanism. The establishment of such a mechanism is consistent with other points of the Treaty relating to economic and monetary policy. In itself, this amendment does not oblige Member States to set up a stability mechanism, but, as has been said, it states that such an option exists. Member States remain competent to decide on the form and content of the mechanism, as well as the procedures and conditions for its participation. I repeat: this does not oblige the creation of a stability mechanism. Nor does it oblige any Member State, including Estonia, to join it. This requires, as we know, separate decisions. Member States should accept this amendment on the basis of an agreement by 1 January 2013, after which Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union could enter into force in the wording I have read. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U166	Thank you very much, Minister. Now it's time for questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We read here that the European Council adopted this amendment on 25 March 2011. Where does it go so long, not to say lying around, but to say that it's just now coming out? Perhaps this has something to do with the introduction of the ESM in a storm race? Where was he for so long, and why did he get busy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U168	Just because some bill comes before Parliament doesn't mean it's going fast. Three documents were intended to be dealt with in a single framework at the end of last year. These three are, firstly, the draft that is now before you, secondly, the draft for the conclusion of the fiscal agreement and, thirdly, the draft for the creation of the ESM, or the stability mechanism, directly. They all reflect more or less the same area and we wanted to deal with them together. That is why it was decided with a specific draft to wait for the ESM to catch up, but unfortunately, as we all know, this spring brought about changes to the ESM procedure, so that this time-to-time plan could not be implemented. Therefore, Bill 237 is before you now. Had it been known in advance that issues such as those raised would arise in relation to the ESM, the procedural schedule for this draft would have been different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U169	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U170	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, For the exact same paragraph you read out, my question is as well. The new paragraph of Article 136 is: 'Member States whose currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism that will be introduced if it is essential for the stability of the euro area as a whole. On the basis of the mechanism, any necessary financial assistance shall be provided under strict conditions. ' That is the question: if a country that receives assistance from the ESM and gives up the euro at one point as a currency unit and withdraws from the euro area in the case of Greece, this has been repeatedly discussed at different levels, what will happen to the support granted by the ESM? After all, this article makes it very clear that it links a party to the single euro area and assumes that the country has a euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U171	Yes, the assumption is that if one or the other country applies for support from the ESM, it must be a member of the euro area. It is clear that no law, no international agreement can fully take into account what will happen in the future. The fact is that the individual countries benefiting from the ESM conclude agreements in which they undertake clear commitments, including repayment commitments. Should a currency change in one or the other country over time, this does not mean that agreements on the fulfilment of obligations will change. A country may have an x-currency currency, it does not undertake to comply with international agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U172	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U173	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The decision concerning Estonia's participation in the ESM is now discussed at the Supreme Court. Is this bill also intended to increase the workload of the Chancellor of Justice's Office and the Supreme Court, or can we do without it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U174	I've figured it out so that it shouldn't increase the workload of the Chancellor of Justice's office. As far as the Chancellor of Justice's argument regarding the dispute concerning the stability mechanism is concerned, he does not in itself dispute the stability mechanism as such but certain relevant provisions. This Treaty amendment only creates the possibility of setting up an ESM, which does not create any obligation. I don't see there's any reason to come up with the Chancellor of Justice's argument so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U175	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U176	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! How many euro area countries have ratified the amendment to this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U177	I don't have the latest data at my disposal. This process is being carried out in most countries, but how many have completed it today, I cannot say. But I'll answer you in a little while. Let's get all the numbers together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U178	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Article 125 of the Treaty on European Union prohibits the Union and the Member States from assuming the responsibilities of the central governments, regional, local or other public authorities of the Member States. The situation in Greece today is largely due to the fact that the central government and local authorities have made very high expenditures. What is your position: how can it be ensured that Article 125 is complied with after the ESM has been implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U180	First of all, the legal service of the Council of the European Union and other legal services of the European Union have clearly stated that the amendment to Article 136, which we are talking about today, is also in line with Article 125, which really says that the Union and the Member States must not assume the responsibilities of the public authorities of the Member States. On the legal side, these analyses show that there is no contradiction. However, the question really is what some things look like in financial turbulence over the last few years. However, the so-called major legal experts in the European Union do not see a legal problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U181	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U182	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, In recent days there have been warnings that Spain, too, needs help from the countries of the euro area, a grant money. Now we see that you have brought before the Riigikogu a draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is obviously not adopted this week. Are you in a hurry to ratify it because the needy are in line at the door? And if it is urgent, what could be the timetable for the final vote on this ratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U183	It has set the objective that Member States may approve this Treaty amendment by 1 January 2013. This is an approximate time perspective. Once again: one is the legal side of things and the other is sometimes the substantive side. In itself, this amendment to the Treaty gives a good picture of what mechanisms the European Union can have. Legally, the ESM, or stability mechanism, can be created without this provision in the Treaty. Let us say, then, that today's Treaty amendment rather serves the interests of legal clarity, so that all the mechanisms already in place and possible in the European Union are reflected in one document. There is no such legal link that a stability mechanism can only be established once the Treaty has been amended. Since the stability mechanism is not directly established as part of European Union law but as part of an agreement between Member States, it can also be established without this Treaty amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U184	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U185	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You mentioned that financial assistance would be granted under strict conditions. In this regard, I have a small question: could you explain what these strict conditions mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U186	Specific conditions will be set out in specific agreements. This is, of course, the case if the stability mechanism, as such, arises and, within this framework, one or another country will receive assistance in the future. These conditions, however, relate in particular to the interest rate and repayment deadlines for this aid, on the other hand, to the changes and reforms that the beneficiary and the requesting State must implement. They concern compliance with the budgetary balance requirement, a timetable for meeting the requirements relating to the total amount of the loan burden and possible other conditions for the granting of aid by other countries participating in the stability mechanism to a particular country. The aim is to ensure that the future, financial and economic situation of the beneficiary country is sustainable. In specific cases, conditions may differ somewhat due to the financial and economic situation in different countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U187	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U188	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. This draft law states that the stability mechanism will be created by those countries that have the euro and that the stability mechanism will be introduced when it is essential for the stability of the euro area. But we know that the European Union is very integrated. We can no longer divide the European Union into zones one and two, both financially and economically, all countries are intertwined. Do you not think that those countries whose currency is not the euro should also participate in this whole stability mechanism?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U189	In essence, you are, of course, right. Looking at the functioning of the European Union, the internal market, all this close economic connection, it is obvious that everything is connected with everything. The objective of keeping an eye on the economic health of the European Union as a whole, or at least for most countries, and, if necessary, to reprimand and punish, will be fulfilled by another treaty: a fiscal agreement covering almost all the Member States of the European Union. As far as the stability mechanism is concerned, its distinction is that countries that all use the same currency unit should be able to participate in that mechanism. So there is a difference compared to those countries of the European Union that use other currency units. If there is one currency, one currency, there must also be clear criteria for how to maintain its stability and prevent it or mitigate its consequences in the event of a impending crisis. So the use of the same currency in 17 Member States still creates this distinction. These 17 countries, of course, are all responsible together for the stability and well-being of the euro. Other economies outside the euro area also have an impact on the stability of the euro, but this is not so direct. However, that the other principles relating to budgetary balance and credit burden are followed up and that there is a necessary mechanism to bring the countries back to normal are dealt with in the fiscal agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U190	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U191	Dear Minister, Valeri Korb's question actually showed that, unfortunately, this decision has been mistranslated from English. It's about conditions. Apparently, the translator has not been a person who speaks the language, or for other reasons, it has not gone wrong. But now a more substantive question. Mr Rait said an hour ago that the nature of the contract is not determined by its form, but by its content. In essence, it is not an international agreement. I ask this question: are there any legal justifications for the procedure being ratification? Because if, in essence, it is not an international agreement, this document cannot be ratified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U192	I assume you are still asking about the specific draft you have on the table on the Treaty amendment. Our own Estonian foreign communication law makes it very clear that all international agreements, if amended, will be dealt with within the country in the same way as those originally concluded. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as such, has been ratified in the Riigikogu and, according to our foreign relations law, as well as the Constitution, all amendments to this Treaty must also be ratified in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U193	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U194	Thank you. Is the ESM in the contract at this level of thoughtless, creative or already created today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U195	It hasn't been created yet. In order for the stability mechanism to enter into force, a number of countries have to be announced that they will join the ESM. According to the current timetable, the stability mechanism will most likely be in place by 9 July after Germany has taken the relevant decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U196	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U197	Thank you. Mr. Minister! From your speech, I understood that it would be possible to set up an ESM without amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Why, then, are these changes to be ratified at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U198	As I have already mentioned, this specific draft, which is before you, concerns the Treaty amendment, and several countries have reached a common understanding that the Treaty on European Union should, however, reflect all important instruments in the European Union. In this sense, this treaty is not so much right-creating as descriptive. In the Estonian Parliament too, there has occasionally been a debate about one law or another about the fact that the laws should be understood by everyone and contain all relevant elements. In a sense, it can be said that this is a declaration.. if you read this amendment, then it does not oblige anyone to do anything, but simply says that yes, that is the possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U199	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U200	As an ardent European, I feel a little hurt when I think that we are treating all of our Europe as a foreign country. For me, the European Union is my home and my country. But my second question is: what are the guarantees for the Estonian budget that we are blocked from importing questionable euro-economic ideas that could harm our budget? How can we guarantee that these questionable initiatives will not harm us through the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U201	After all, the ESM debate in this Parliament is still ahead of all its nuances and details. This can begin according to current understandings when the Supreme Court has stated its position. After that, I'm sure you can discuss all the nuances in this room in depth. But the main guarantee is that all financial ceilings are in place in the stability mechanism and no surprises can come about. All States Parties, including Estonia, should they join the ESM, must agree with the ceilings. The fact that there are some surprises that go beyond what has been agreed and decided, including here in Parliament, is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U202	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U203	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Do you also know what kind of financial institution a European stability mechanism will be created? As regards the purpose of the Act, the draft states that the ESM will be established as an international financial institution, but there are several types of financial institutions. Is an international bank or international fund or other financial institution established?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U204	The ESM is such a new type of structure. It is certainly not a bank in its classical sense, it is not a fund in the classical sense, rather something similar to the fund. The only role of the ESM will be to deal with countries in need in the euro area, to establish the conditions for granting assistance and to monitor compliance with these conditions. So it's going to be a very specific organization, and it's going to be a single task organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U205	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 4 June and we decided to propose that it be put at first reading on 12 June. We also propose that the first reading be stopped and that amendments be submitted to the Commission within 10 working days, i.e. by 16 a.m. on 26 June at the latest. There is also a proposal, if possible, to provide that the draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the draft law on the ratification of the ESM and the Treaty on the Stability, Coordination and Governance of the European Economic and Monetary Union, or the second reading of the draft law on the ratification of the so-called fiscal treaty, coincide in time, i.e. one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U207	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 237 amendments to the draft text at 4 p.m. on 26 June. The first reading of Bill 237 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U208	The agenda now includes the first reading of the draft of Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' put forward by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Priit Toobali, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U209	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has submitted a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control'. This is driven by the fact that Inara Luigas, a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and Lembit Kaljuvee, an alternate member of this committee, are no longer members of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, but each parliamentary group may have two representatives on that special committee. The draft decision submitted stated that Inara Luigas would be recalled as a member of the Commission and replaced by Tarmo Tamm, a member of the Central Party Group, and Mr Olga Sõtnik would be appointed as an alternate member instead of Mr Lembit Kaljuvee. However, as a result of the discussions in the Commission, the analyses carried out and the agreements concluded, a draft decision has been redrafted on your tables, which will additionally appoint Mr Tarmo Tamm as a member of the Commission and as an alternate member of the Commission, Mr Olga Sõtnik. However, a representative of the Commission will give you more details on the new draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U210	Thank you very much. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable speaker! What do you mean by the agreements they made? Is the Commission's debate not a fundamental debate, but an agreement before the Commission's meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U212	By agreement, I mean the decision taken by the Commission. And according to the Commission decision, the original text of the draft has been amended. The author of the draft is also in agreement with this. We do not invite one member back or appoint a new person in his place, but we also appoint Tarmo Tamme as a member of the special committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U213	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U214	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! You said here that all political groups have the right to two members of the Commission. But did you also discuss in the group that you could waive your right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U215	That is not what we discussed in the group. On the contrary, we believe that we must exercise our right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U216	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I would now like to ask Mr Lember, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U217	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A total of four discussions on this draft took place in the Commission. This is a short draft, but there was a great deal of discussion about it and, for the last time, on 5 June, when all the members of the Commission, apart from Andres Herkel, were present. As a result of the Commission's discussions, a joint position was finally reached to send the draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' in the amended form of the Riigikogu Hall. The author also agreed to this. The new version of the draft decision would look like this. Point 1 is that the decision of the Riigikogu to establish the Special Committee on State Budget Control is amended by appointing Tarmo Tamme as member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and an alternate member, Olga Sõtnik. And point 2 is that the alternate, Lembit Kaljuvee, is excluded from the composition of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The deadline for amendments to the draft was 26 June. In general, the discussion that took place in the committee was quite peculiar in the sense that such situations have occurred in the Riigikogu in the last few decades, and in the end, I think the decision made is reasonable and the work of the Special Committee on State Budget Control is not counterproductive, but rather remedial.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U218	Thank you very much, Mr Lember. You have a question. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U219	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In terms of self-education: can each committee increase the number of its members itself? Can the National Defence Committee, for example, one day make itself 101 if they consider it necessary and there is an agreement? Does this not require any changes to the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U220	Regulation varies between standing committees and special committees. The special committee of the Riigikogu is formed by a decision of the Riigikogu, which appoints the members of the committee and their alternates. In this sense, members of the Riigikogu are free to appoint members of the special committee. It is different for permanent committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U221	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U222	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Unlike the Committee on the Environment, when I read the explanatory statement, I see that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a very good and effective job and has also found a very pleasant solution. I thank the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U223	Thanks for the comment. We must also thank our Commission officials, who have done a very thorough preparatory work to find such a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U224	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Lember. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline of 26 June at 16 a.m. for the submission of draft 217 amendments. First reading of Bill 217 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U225	The next item is the first reading of draft 238 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Kaia Iva, Member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu 238, i.e. the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu to the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act. This is because Andrus Saare, a member of this special committee who was an alternate in the Riigikogu, has now left the Riigikogu and our proposal is to appoint Peeter Laurson, a member of our group, as a member of the special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act. Kaia Iva, an alternate member, is also called on by the group to appoint Mr Andres Jalak as an alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U227	Thank you very much. Please ask a question from my colleague, Mr Leinatammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Are these persons themselves willing to become a member of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U229	Yes, when this issue was discussed at a group meeting, they were present and showed their readiness and a great deal of work on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U230	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Did the members of the recalled Riigikogu agree to be recalled?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U232	Yes, the member of the recalled Riigikogu agreed and, as I recall, he himself made this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U233	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Iva. I now call on Mr Lember, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U234	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the previous special committee, the decisions to change the members of this committee did not give rise to much discussion. The Commission discussed this issue on 5 June and we agreed with the draft author's proposals. The content of the draft is then to appoint Mr Peeter Laurson as a member of the special committee and Ms Andres Jalak as an alternate member in place of Ms Kaia Iva. The proposal is to conclude the first reading and to propose amendments within 10 working days, i.e. by 4 p.m. on 26 June at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U235	Thank you very much. There are no questions, my good colleague, for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 238 amendments. tho 26 June 2010 at 4 p.m. First reading of bill 238 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U236	Today's last item is the first reading of § 90 of the Law on Supplementation to Electronic Communications, which was initiated by the Economic Commission. For the presentation, I would like to ask Mr Tõniste, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 4 June, the Economic Commission initiated a draft law supplementing § 90 of the Electronic Communications Act. Tõnu Nirk, Head of the Communications Department of MKM, and Peeter Sookruus, Head of the Media Department of the Ministry of Culture, had been invited to the meeting of the committee to provide further explanations and to answer questions from the members of the committee during the discussion. I will also give you an overview of the debate and the questions raised by the Members of the Commission. The current law does not prohibit agreements between a television service provider and a cable service provider, including charging a fee to an undertaking. What is the content of the draft amendment? MKM's explanation was that according to the current law, the cable service provider is obliged to transmit channels, but no remuneration is required. A situation is not regulated when a fee is charged. According to cable service providers, television channels have sought to conclude remuneration agreements in the context of copyright, but the public body concerned has not yet been regulated. With the addition of the bill, legal clarity will increase as a clear rule will be included in the law, which will allow us to charge a fee. Does the amendment guarantee that the channels will remain available after 2 July 2012? Reply from the Ministry of Culture: if Kanal 2 and TV3 wish to apply for free movement and join paid coverage, then the Ministry of Culture has one month to process the application. So far, no such statement has been received from the television channels. Is it possible to implement measures to enable or oblige chickens to continue to fly freely? The technical resources allocated by the UN, i.e. the frequencies, are sufficient for free channels in Estonia, and are transmitted by AS Levira. The fees for TV channels to Levira have decreased four times since the analogue distribution period, thanks to digitalisation. The representative of the Ministry of Culture explained that the State's intervention in the free circulation of television channels was not appropriate under the conditions of the free market. It is not right to force a company to use a business model that is not useful to it in the long term. In this case, the interest of the television channels in the free movement exists. There was also a question of what would happen if the State were to oblige the television channels to remain available. A representative of the Ministry of Culture replied that private channels could then leave free distribution, as such an obligation could not be imposed on them. The channel may then change the licence. The freedom of reception and transmission of channels in the Open Service Space applies in the EU. A situation may arise where a television channel applies for a licence from Latvia or Great Britain, for example, and no longer falls under Estonia's jurisdiction. Is the draft wording correct in the context of a European judicial area? MKM's answer was that it was a special rule. The wording currently in force imposes an obligation if no charge is charged. When a fee is charged, there is no obligation to transmit channels. On this basis, it can be confirmed that the wording is correct. At the hearing, a member of the Commission also commented that if the State were to impose an obligation on the private channel to remain free, the State would also have to compensate for it. As a result of the discussion, it was decided that the Economic Commission would initiate a draft law supplementing § 90 of the Electronic Communications Act. There were six people in favour, one against, no abstentions. It was also decided that when the Executive Board of the Riigikogu appoints this draft as the commission of the Economic Commission, the member of the commission, Toomas Tõniste, is appointed as rapporteur and that it is proposed to place the draft law on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Economic Commission, on 12 June, and then to close the first reading and set the deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 26 June 2012, at 12 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U238	Thank you very much. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U239	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In April 2010, Jüri Pihel, Head of the Government Commission for the Transition to Digital TV, said: 'By the end of June long queues can be predicted in electronics stores, antenna installation companies and television service providers. " People spent their time watching TV programs of better quality. Although quality may have improved, a number of problems arose which, despite the new digibox, either the picture was frizzy or the television could not be shown at all. The government painted magnificent pictures of a new era, but the more information, the more confused the people went. Pensioners living alone or alone, who are also viewers of free-to-air channels, as well as rural people who do not have cable connections or who currently enjoy five free channels using digiboxes, have been considered a risk group. On 1 July 2010, at 5.00, all Estonian TV transmitters stopped broadcasting analogue TV and only digitally saw the TV programmes with the help of the sky antenna. The public was also informed that there were five free TV channels at the time: ETV, ETV2, Channel 2, TV3 and Channel 11 were not required to join any service provider. In September 2010, there was hope that digital TV would bring additional channels and new investments, but this did not materialise. True, some canals have been added, while others have been free to leave. As an intermediate remark, there are 16 free distribution channels in Finland and this is almost considered a human right. We are now faced with the problem that TV3 and Channel 2 are threatening to leave the free distribution on 1 July and 75,000 families, or 13.5% of TV viewers, feel deceived. I would like to remind you that the topic of leaving the free distribution was also on the agenda last summer. Jüri Pihel then called the threat of such departure a crude and crude way of doing business. He pointed out that by switching to digital transmission, private channels were expected to achieve savings of EUR 2.2 million. The biggest benefit was the exemption from the licence fee for advertising, which left about 25 million Estonian kroons in their budget, i.e. nearly 1.6 million euros. Some cable operators have started to talk about the need for a TV tax and have recalled the principle of equal treatment. They have said that this bill essentially introduces a TV charge for all viewers of cable. They propose a tax for all viewers, including viewers of free distribution channels. The lack of knowledge of the future is a source of uncertainty and fear that people will be deceived once more. However, the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that the draft can only create legal assumptions that private capital-based television service providers will continue to operate in free movement. The draft cannot force them to be free-to-air, and they are always free to leave free-to-air for commercial reasons or to cease their activities at all. As the draft imposes an obligation on cable providers to pay a fee that creates costs for cable providers, consumers are expected to pay more for cable providers' television packages. By 1 July, the bill cannot be adopted as a law. The government coalition hopes that the TV channels will be willing not to leave the open area during the summer. We have seen this kind of trade before, and the mutual blackmail must eventually be paid for by consumers. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U240	Please, just a minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U241	Once the law amendment has been passed, none of us will know how long the channels will remain open for two or more years. As the draft does not resolve the inconsistencies between programme producers, cable providers and consumers, the Group of the Social Democratic Party cannot vote in favour of it. We believe that promises must be kept and that the people should not feel deceived again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-12_U242	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 243 amendments. tho June 26th at 12 noon. The first reading of Bill 243 is complete. Our trial today is over, too. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1.05 p.m.
